 Item 1. Business . 

General 

Headquartered in Norfolk, Virginia and incorporated in Delaware, we are a leading company in the acquisition and collection of nonperforming loans in the Americas and Europe. Our business focuses upon the acquisition, collection, and processing of both unpaid and normal-course accounts receivable originally owed to credit grantors, government entities, and others. Our primary business is the purchase, collection and management of portfolios of nonperforming consumer loans. The accounts we acquire are the unpaid obligations of individuals owed to credit grantors, which primarily include banks and other types of consumer, retail, and auto finance companies. We also provide the following fee-based services: 

&#8226; 

Contingent collections of nonperforming loans in Europe; 

&#8226; 

Vehicle location, skip tracing and collateral recovery for auto lenders, government entities and law enforcement; 

&#8226; 

Revenue administration, audit and debt discovery services for local government entities; and 

&#8226; 

Class action claims recovery services and related payment processing. 

We have one reportable segment, accounts receivable management, based on similarities among the operating units including the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the types or classes of customers for our products and services, the methods used to distribute our products and services, and the nature of the regulatory environment. 

On August 3, 2015 we acquired 55% of the equity interest in RCB Investimentos S.A. ("RCB"). The remaining 45% of the equity interest in RCB is owned by the executive team and previous owners of RCB. RCB was founded in 2007 and is a leading master servicing platform for nonperforming loans in Brazil. RCB specializes in structuring, investing and operating receivable and credit-related assets. The founders of RCB each entered into long-term employment agreements with us and will continue to manage RCB's local business in Brazil. Our investment for the 55% ownership of RCB was paid for with approximately $55.2 million in cash which was borrowed under our existing domestic revolving credit facility. The majority of cash paid to acquire the equity interest in RCB is expected to be used in the ordinary course of business. As part of the investment and call option agreements, we have the right to purchase the remaining 45% of RCB at certain multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") beginning August 3, 2019 and lasting for two years. 

The scale and scope of our international business expanded substantially during 2014 primarily due to the acquisition of Aktiv Kapital ("Aktiv"), a Norway-based leader in acquiring and servicing nonperforming consumer debt throughout Europe and Canada. With the Aktiv acquisition, we became one of the world's largest acquirers of nonperforming consumer loans from banks and other creditors. The Aktiv acquisition provided us entry into several new markets, resulting in additional geographic diversity in portfolio purchasing and collection. Aktiv's executive team and the more than 400 Aktiv employees joined our workforce upon the closing of the transaction. 

We believe that the strengths of our business are our analytical approach to portfolio pricing and servicing, our processing systems and procedures, our relationships with many of the largest consumer lenders, and our extensive compliance systems and culture. The success of our business depends on our ability to purchase nonperforming loans at appropriate valuations and to collect on those receivables in a compliant, effective and efficient manner. 

Our Core business specializes in receivables that have been charged-off by the credit grantor. Because the credit grantor and/or other debt servicing companies have unsuccessfully attempted to fully collect these receivables, we are able to purchase them at a substantial discount to their face value. 

Our Insolvency business consists primarily of purchasing and collecting accounts that are involved in a Chapter 13 bankruptcy proceeding from credit grantors based in the United States. During 2014, the geographic footprint of the Insolvency business expanded into Canada and Europe. 

We were initially formed as Portfolio Recovery Associates, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company, on March 20, 1996. In connection with our 2002 initial public offering, all of the membership units of Portfolio Recovery Associates, L.L.C. were exchanged, simultaneously with the effectiveness of our registration statement, for a single class of Portfolio Recovery Associates, Inc. common stock, a new Delaware corporation formed on August 7, 2002. Accordingly, the members of Portfolio Recovery Associates, L.L.C. became the common stockholders of Portfolio Recovery Associates, Inc., which became the parent company of Portfolio Recovery Associates, L.L.C. and its subsidiaries. On October 23, 2014, we changed our name to PRA Group, Inc. 

Frequently Used Terms 

We use the following terminology throughout this document: 

&#8226; 

"Allowance charges" refers to a reduction in income recognized on finance receivables on pools of finance receivables whose cash collection estimates were below expectations or are projected to be below expectations. 

&#8226; 

"Amortization rate" refers to cash collections applied to principal on finance receivables as a percentage of total cash collections. 

&#8226; 

"Buybacks" refers to purchase price refunded by the seller due to the return of ineligible accounts. 

&#8226; 

"Cash collections" refers to collections on our owned finance receivables portfolios. 

&#8226; 

"Cash receipts" refers to collections on our owned finance receivables portfolios plus fee income. 

&#8226; 

"Core" accounts or portfolios refer to accounts or portfolios that are nonperforming loans and are not in an insolvent status upon purchase. These accounts are aggregated separately from insolvency accounts. 

&#8226; 

"Estimated remaining collections" or "ERC" refers to the sum of all future projected cash collections on our owned finance receivables portfolios. 

&#8226; 

"Fee income" refers to revenues generated from our fee-for-service businesses. 

&#8226; 

"Income recognized on finance receivables" refers to income derived from our owned finance receivables portfolios. 

&#8226; 

"Income recognized on finance receivables, net" refers to income derived from our owned finance receivables portfolios and is shown net of allowance charges/reversals. 

&#8226; 

"Insolvency" accounts or portfolios refer to accounts or portfolios of receivables that are in an insolvent status when we purchase them and as such are purchased as a pool of insolvent accounts. These include Individual Voluntary Arrangements ("IVAs"), Trust Deeds in the United Kingdom, Consumer Proposals in Canada and bankruptcy accounts in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. 

&#8226; 

"Net finance receivable balance" is recorded on our balance sheet and refers to the purchase price less principal amortization and net allowance charges/reversals. 

&#8226; 

"Principal amortization" refers to cash collections applied to principal on finance receivables. 

&#8226; 

"Purchase price" refers to the cash paid to a seller to acquire nonperforming loans, plus certain capitalized costs, less buybacks. 

&#8226; 

"Purchase price multiple" refers to the total estimated collections (as defined below) on owned finance receivables portfolios divided by purchase price. 

&#8226; 

"Total estimated collections" refers to actual cash collections, including cash sales, plus estimated remaining collections on our finance receivables portfolios. 

All references in this report on Form 10-K to the "PRA Group," "our," "we," "us," the "Company" or similar terms are to PRA Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries. 

Available Information 

We maintain an Internet website at the following address: www.pragroup.com . 

We make available on or through our website certain reports that we file with or furnish to the SEC in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These include our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make this information available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the information with or furnish it to the SEC. The information that is filed with the SEC may be read or copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. In addition, information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at: www.sec.gov . 

Reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are also available free of charge upon request by contacting our corporate office at: 

PRA Group, Inc. 

Attn: Investor Relations 

120 Corporate Boulevard, Suite 100 

Norfolk, Virginia 23502 

Competitive Strengths 

We Offer a Compelling Alternative to Global Debt Owners and Domestic Governmental Entities 

We offer global debt owners the ability to realize immediate value for their charged-off and insolvent receivables, through either one-time spot purchase contracts or forward flow contracts that arrange for regular purchases from the debt owner. Our transactional flexibility helps us to meet the needs of global debt owners, leverages our access to capital, and provides us with the opportunity to create consistent and enduring supply relationships. Through our government services business and our European and South American businesses, we have the ability to service receivables in various ways including collecting on a contingent fee basis. For our government services business, this also includes such services as processing tax payments on behalf of the client and extends to more complicated tax audit and discovery work, as well as additional services that fill the needs of our clients. 

Disciplined and Proprietary Underwriting Process 

One of the key components of our growth has been our ability to price portfolio acquisitions at levels that have generated profitable returns on investment. Since inception, we have been able to consistently collect more than our purchase price and costs over the collection life cycle of the finance receivables portfolios we have acquired. In doing so, we have generated profits and operational cash flow from these portfolio acquisitions, without relying on the resale of portfolios to achieve these results. In the United States, we have not resold any of our purchased portfolios since 2002 and sold a minimal number of accounts prior to this time frame. 

By retaining and collecting, as opposed to selling, the accounts we purchase over the long term, we create static pool history that we believe is unique among our peers. Our portfolio underwriting process utilizes collection results, customer data, and account attributes to effectively value portfolios. Our modeling capabilities continuously evolve as we incorporate new data and develop, test, and adopt new analytical tools that help us improve our underwriting accuracy. 

The Core portfolio underwriting process includes both quantitative analytical modeling and qualitative judgment-based analysis that considers the effects of the origination, servicing, and collection history of the portfolios we price. With the addition of data from the Aktiv acquisition and our interest in RCB in Brazil, we have similar capabilities in European and South American markets. We believe the combination of our deep sample of purchase data, our sophisticated analytical modeling, and the underwriting judgment gained from thousands of portfolios affords us a significant competitive advantage. 

Established Systems and Infrastructure 

We have devoted significant effort to developing our systems, including statistical models, databases and reporting packages, to optimize our portfolio purchases and collection efforts. In addition, we believe that our technology infrastructure is flexible, secure, reliable and redundant, to protect the privacy of our sensitive data and to mitigate exposure to systems failure or unauthorized access. 

We have developed financial models and systems for pricing portfolio acquisitions, managing the collections process and monitoring operating results. We regularly prepare a static pool report for each of our portfolios, populating actual results back into our acquisition models to enhance their accuracy. We monitor collection results continuously, seeking to identify and resolve negative trends promptly. By retaining and collecting upon our purchased finance receivables over the long-term, we enhance our knowledge of a portfolio's performance. The combination of hardware, software and proprietary modeling and systems has been developed by our management team through years of experience in this industry and we believe provides us with an important competitive advantage from the acquisition process all the way through collection and payment operations. 

Our systems and infrastructure also enhance our compliance activities. We employ a staff of Quality Assurance employees in our Compliance function who monitor calls and observe collection system entries and monitor and test our daily activities. To enhance this process, where permissible, we employ sophisticated call and work action recording systems which allow us to better monitor compliance and quality of our customer contacts. 

Strong Relationships with Major Credit Grantors 

We have done business with most of the largest consumer lenders in the United States and in Europe. We maintain an active marketing effort and our senior management team is in contact on a regular basis with existing and potential sellers of nonperforming loans. In addition, we protect our reputation as a reliable and compliant purchaser of nonperforming loans. Management views our reputation as compliant collectors as an integral part of our value proposition for existing and potential sellers. Moreover, we consistently attempt to negotiate reasonable and mutually acceptable contract terms, resulting in a confident and expeditious closing process for both parties. We believe our strong relationships with major credit grantors provide us with access to quality opportunities for portfolio purchases. 

Experienced Management Team 

Prior to our formation, our founders played key roles in the development and management of a receivables acquisition and divestiture operation of Household Recovery Services, a subsidiary of Household International. As we have grown, we have expanded our management team with seasoned executives to better sustain our business growth strategy. Our team has considerable expertise in the accounts receivable management industry. 

Following is a summary of our executive management team as of February 26, 2016 , including each executive officer's principal occupation, business experience, and employment during the past five years. The principal occupation, employment and business experience history of each member provides a brief explanation as to the nature of responsibility undertaken by such individual in their prior positions to provide adequate disclosure of his or her prior business experience. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Tenure, Experience and Age in years 

Name 

Current Position 

Prior Experience 

PRA Group Tenure 

Relevant Industry Experience 

Age 

Steven D. Fredrickson (1) 

Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer 

Household Recovery Services, Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company 

30+ 

Kevin P. Stevenson (2) 

President, Chief Administrative Officer, and Interim Chief Financial Officer 

Household Recovery Services, Household Bank 

27 

Chris Graves (3) 

Executive Vice President, Americas Core Acquisitions &#38; Core Operations 

Capital One, Signet Bank, First Union 

23 

Chris Lagow (4) 

Senior Vice President and General Counsel 

Togut, Segal &#38; Segal, LLP, LeClair Ryan, PC 

15 

Michelle Link (5) 

Chief Human Resources Officer 

Amerigroup, Corning, Cigna, Blue Cross Blue Shield 

18 

Tiku Patel (6) 

Chief Executive Officer, PRA Group Europe 

Aktiv Kapital, Experian, Barclays, Kingfisher, Redland 

14 

Michael Petit (7) 

President, Insolvency Investment Services 

Pacific Crest Securities, Caterpillar, Banc One Capital Markets, Ford Motor Company, Jefferies and Company, Continental Bank 

30 

Steve Roberts (8) 

Chief Strategy and Business Development Officer 

ShopText, Interpublic Group, Otis, Carrier, Digitas, United Technologies 

30 

Neal Stern &#160;(9) 

Executive Vice President, Chief Investment, Analytics and Operations Strategy Officer 

Target Financial Services, US Bank, Transamerica 

25 

Laura White (10) 

Chief Compliance Officer 

Allianz, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Capital One 

24 

Deborah Cassidy (11) 

Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer 

Genworth Financial, Allianz Assistance, Tredegar Corporation 

11 

Neil Chakravarty (12) 

Senior Vice President, Corporate Audit Services 

Genworth Financial, Capital One Financial, KPMG 

18 

(1) 

Mr. Fredrickson, co-founder, served as PRA Group's President until 2015 when he assumed his current position. 

(2) 

Mr. Stevenson, co-founder, served as PRA Group's Executive Vice President until 2015 when he assumed his current position. 

(3) 

Mr. Graves joined PRA Group in 2006. He served as Vice President, Portfolio Acquisitions until 2009, and Executive Vice President, Core Acquisitions until 2013 when he assumed his current position. 

(4) 

Mr. Lagow joined PRA Group in 2006. He served as U.S. Counsel-Litigation until 2014 and Deputy General Counsel until 2015 when he assumed his current position. 

(5) 

Ms. Link joined PRA Group in 2011. She served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources until 2014 when she assumed her current position. 

(6) 

Mr. Patel transitioned to PRA Group from Aktiv Kapital where he served as Chief Operating Officer for six years. Aktiv Kapital was acquired by PRA Group, Inc. in 2014; following the transition he continued his role as Chief Operating Officer for PRA Group Europe until 2016 when he took on the role of Chief Executive Officer, PRA Group Europe. His extensive operational knowledge of Aktiv Kapital, his background and skills in the financial services industry, and his leadership capabilities are highly leveraged in his continued role with PRA Group. 

(7) 

Mr. Petit joined PRA Group in 2004. He served as President, Bankruptcy Services from 2011 until 2015 when he assumed his current position. 

(8) 

Mr. Roberts was the Chief Executive Officer of ShopText for the six years prior to joining PRA Group. He has a significant background in marketing and operations and worked as a chief operating officer and chief financial officer at subsidiaries of the publicly-held McCann Erikson and Modem Media organizations. He served as President, Business and Government Services at PRA Group until 2015 when he assumed his current position. 

(9) 

Mr. Stern joined PRA Group in 2007. He served as Senior Vice President, Operations from 2008 until 2011, and Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Owned Portfolios until 2015 when he assumed his current position. 

(10) 

Prior to joining PRA Group, Ms. White was the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Americas Zone for Allianz Global Assistance from 2010-2014. Ms. White has more than 20 years of leadership experience in the financial services industry. In her role with Allianz she was responsible for risk management and compliance, including operational risk, internal controls, business continuity and regulatory compliance. A significant amount of this experience is leveraged in her role at PRA Group. 

(11) 

Ms. Cassidy served as Vice President and Business Chief Information Officer at Genworth Financial and Vice President and Americas Chief Information Officer at Allianz prior to joining PRA Group. She has over 25 years of experience within information technology; 11 years were focused within financial services. 

(12) 

Prior to joining PRA Group, Mr. Chakravarty served as Senior Manager, Card Operations Audit, Capital One Financial for over two years before transitioning to Genworth Financial where he served as Audit Director for three years. He has an extensive background in the audit and risk management industry and leverages these skills at PRA Group. 

Portfolio Acquisitions 

Our portfolio of finance receivables includes a diverse set of accounts that can be categorized by asset type, age and size of account, level of previous collection efforts, payment history, and geography. To identify buying opportunities, we maintain an extensive marketing effort with our senior officers contacting known and prospective sellers of finance receivables. We have acquired receivables of Visa &#174; , MasterCard &#174; , private label and other credit cards, installment loans, lines of credit, insolvency accounts, deficiency balances of various types, legal judgments, trade payables, and other types, all from a variety of receivable owners. These sellers include major banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, telecommunication providers, retailers, utilities, auto finance companies, student loan companies, and other debt owners. In addition, we make periodic visits to the operating sites of sellers of receivables and attend numerous industry events in an effort to develop account purchase opportunities. We also maintain active relationships with brokers of nonperforming loans. 

We purchase accounts from a variety of debt owners. We have acquired portfolios at various price levels, depending on the age of the portfolio, its geographic distribution, our historical experience with a certain asset type or credit grantor and similar factors. A typical nonperforming loan portfolio that we acquire in the United States ranges from $1 million to $150 million in face value and contains receivables from diverse geographic locations with average initial individual account balances of $400 to $7,000. Our portfolio purchases outside the United States can vary from these ranges based upon a number of factors. 

In the United States, the age of a Core portfolio (the time since the underlying account has been charged-off) is an important factor in determining the value we place on the portfolio. Generally, there is an inverse relationship between the age of a Core portfolio and the price we can pay to purchase the portfolio. This relationship is due to the fact that older Core portfolio receivables typically liquidate at lower rates. The accounts receivables management industry places U.S. Core portfolio receivables into categories depending on the number of collection agencies that have previously attempted to collect on the receivables. Fresh accounts are typically past due 120 to 270 days, charged-off by the credit grantor and are typically sold prior to the seller conducting any post-charge-off collection activity. These accounts typically sell for the highest purchase price. Primary accounts are charged-off, are typically 360 to 450 days past due, and have been previously placed with one contingent fee servicer and receive a lower purchase price. Secondary and tertiary accounts are charged-off, are typically more than 540 days past due, and have been placed with two or three contingent fee servicers and receive even lower purchase prices. We also occasionally purchase portfolios of charged-off accounts previously worked by four or more agencies and these are typically older and receive an even lower price. In Europe we also purchase portfolios of paying, charged-off accounts. Such pools have liquidation results that can have much in common with Insolvency portfolios. 

In addition, we purchase portfolios of accounts that are included in certain types of consumer insolvency proceedings. Given our United States focus historically, these insolvency accounts are typically those filed under Chapter 13 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and have an associated payment plan that generally ranges from 3 to 5 years in duration. We purchase portfolios of insolvency accounts in both forward flow and spot transactions and, consequently, they can be at any age in the bankruptcy plan life cycle. 

Non-U.S. Insolvency accounts may have some slight differences, but will generally operate similarly. In Canada, we purchase Consumer Proposal, Consumer Credit Counseling and Bankrupt Accounts. In the United Kingdom, we purchase IVAs, Company Voluntary Arrangements, Trust Deeds and Bankrupt Accounts. In Germany, we acquire consumer bankruptcies which may also consist of small business loans with a personal guarantee. 

We also review the geographic distribution of accounts within a portfolio because we have found that state-specific laws and rules can have an effect on the collectability of accounts located there. In addition, economic factors and bankruptcy trends vary regionally and are factored into our purchase price equation. 

Purchasing Process 

We acquire portfolios from debt owners through auctions and negotiated sales. In an auction process, the seller will assemble a portfolio of receivables and will seek purchase prices from specifically invited potential purchasers. In a privately negotiated sale process, the debt owner will contact one or more purchasers directly, receive a bid, and negotiate the terms of sale. In either case, typically, invited purchasers will have already successfully completed a qualification process that can include the owner's reviews of any or all of the following: the purchaser's experience, reputation, financial standing, operating procedures, business practices, and compliance oversight. 

We also acquire accounts through forward flow contracts. Under a forward flow contract we agree to purchase nonperforming loans from a debt owner on a periodic basis, at a price equal to a set percentage of face value of the receivables over a specified time period, generally from three to twelve months. These agreements often contain a requirement that the attributes and selection criteria of the receivables to be sold will not significantly change each month. If this requirement is not adhered to, the contract will typically allow for the correction of any material file deficiencies by the seller or other appropriate remedies as mutually agreed upon. Forward flow contracts provide debt owners with a predictable source of value for nonperforming loans and provide the debt purchaser with a steady and reliable source of receivables for its collection operation. 

In a typical U.S. and Canadian Core portfolio sale transaction, after signing a non-disclosure agreement, a debt owner distributes a computer data file containing ten to fifteen essential data fields on each account in the portfolio offered for sale. Such fields typically include, but are not limited to, the customer's name, address, outstanding balance, date of charge-off, date and amount of last payment and the date the account was opened. Customer information may be masked or altogether excluded from the pricing file provided by the seller. Additionally, we typically receive a survey from the debt owner, which describes the origination, servicing, and collection history of the accounts selected for sale. We may also receive representative samples of account documentation for review, to include statements, account agreements, promissory notes, and other documents, as applicable. We perform our data due diligence on the portfolio by electronically checking the data, provided to us through secured delivery, using proprietary data quality algorithms, and when possible, cross-check the data against the accounts in our owned portfolio database. We compile a variety of portfolio level reports, examining all available data. In certain markets, we will also perform on-site due diligence at the debt owner's operation. 

In order to determine a purchase price for a Core portfolio in the United States, we generally use two separate internally developed computer models. We analyze the portfolio using our proprietary multiple linear regression model, which analyzes the accounts of the portfolio using predictive variables and projects a portfolio liquidation rate. We also analyze the portfolio as a whole using an adjustment model, which is used in combination with a cash flow model that utilizes our collections results from similar portfolios we have previously purchased. We supplement the adjustment model with qualitative background information about the origination, servicing and collection history of the portfolio. Finally, we may employ a model that creates statistically similar portfolios from our existing accounts across our purchased inventory and develops estimated collection curves that are used in our price modeling. From these models we derive our quantitative projections which are used to help price transactions. The multiple linear regression model is also used to prioritize collection work efforts subsequent to purchase. With respect to prospective forward flow contracts and other long-term relationships, we obtain a representative file that we use to determine the price of the forward flow arrangement. Then each month during the flow term, we receive the actual sale file to be funded, and compare it to the representative file noted above to determine if the delivered file meets the file quality standards established by the initial pricing file. This process allows us to confirm that the accounts we are purchasing are materially consistent with those we agreed to purchase under the forward flow contract. When purchasing insolvency receivables, we follow a similar analytical process but utilize completely separate, specifically designed pricing models. 

In order to determine a purchase price for a Core portfolio in Europe, we use a combination of models. One is a reference model that utilizes actual collections and cost experience yielded from other comparable portfolios previously acquired within the same country as the portfolio being considered for purchase. Other models utilize data from our data warehouse and employ statistical approaches to project the likelihood and amount of receiving payments over the economic life of the portfolio being considered. Models that use decay and amortization approaches can also be employed, depending on the portfolio. When available, external data sources are utilized to enhance underwriting accuracy. As in the United States, quantitative projections of collections 

and costs are adjusted based upon qualitative background information we collect that describes the origination, servicing and collection history of the portfolio. 

We maintain a detailed static pool profile for each portfolio that we have acquired, capturing demographic data and revenue and expense items for further analysis. We use our static pool analysis to refine the underwriting models that we use to price future portfolio purchases. The results of the static pool analysis are input back into our models, increasing the accuracy of the models as the data set increases with every portfolio purchase and each day's collection efforts. We generally do not sell our purchased receivables, but rather we work them over the long-term, enhancing our knowledge of a pool's long-term performance. 

The quantitative and qualitative data derived in our due diligence process is evaluated, considering both any subjective factors about the portfolio or the debt owner and our knowledge of the current nonperforming loan market. A portfolio acquisition approval memorandum is then prepared for each prospective portfolio before a binding purchase price is submitted to the debt owner. This approval memorandum, which outlines the portfolio's anticipated collectability, costs, returns, risks, and purchase structure, is distributed to members of an Investment Committee, which varies depending on the country. The approval by the Investment Committee sets a maximum purchase price for the portfolio. 

Once a portfolio purchase has been approved by the applicable Investment Committee and the terms of the sale have been agreed to with the debt owner, the acquisition is documented in an agreement that contains mutually agreeable terms and conditions. Provisions are typically incorporated for disputed, fraudulent, deceased, bankrupt (in the case of Core portfolio purchases), or other ineligible accounts and the debt owner typically either agrees to repurchase these accounts or replace them with acceptable replacement accounts within certain time frames. 

Owned-Portfolio Collection Operations 

Call Center Operations 

In higher volume markets our collection efforts leverage call centers. In some newer markets or in markets that have less consistent debt purchasing patterns, most notably outside the United States, we may utilize external vendors to do some or all of this work. Whether the accounts are being worked internally or externally we utilize our analysis to proportionally direct work efforts to those customers most likely to pay. The analysis driving those decisions relies on various models, and variables that have the highest correlation to profitable collection call activity. 

The collectability forecast for a newly acquired portfolio will help determine our initial collection strategy. Accounts that are initially determined to have the highest predicted collection probability will be worked with greater efforts. Less collectible accounts may be set aside to be worked with less frequency or with lower cost methods. After owning an account for a month we begin reassessing the collectability based on a set of observed account characteristics and behaviors. Some accounts may be worked using a letter and/or settlement strategy. 

On the initial contact call, a customer is given a standardized presentation on resolving his or her account with us. During this call, emphasis is placed on determining the reason for the customer's default to better assess the customer's situation and create a plan for repayment. The collectors work to obtain a repayment plan that is appropriate to the customer's ability to make a repayment. At times, when determined to be appropriate, and in many cases with management approval, a reduced lump-sum settlement may be agreed upon. 

If a collector or an external vendor is unable to establish contact with a customer based on information received or stored, the systems generally will supplement the account information by leveraging a series of automated skip tracing procedures. Skip tracing is the process of developing new phone, address, job or asset information on a customer, or verifying the accuracy of such information. 

Legal Recovery &#8211; Core Portfolios 

An important component of our collections effort involves our legal recovery department and the judicial collection of accounts of customers who we believe have the ability, but not the willingness, to resolve their obligations. There are some markets in which the collection process follows a prescribed time-sensitive and sequential set of legal actions, but in the majority of instances we use models and analysis and select those accounts reflecting a high propensity to pay in a legal environment. Depending on the balance of the receivable and the applicable local collection laws, we determine whether to commence legal action to judicially collect on the receivable. The legal process can take an extended period of time and can be costly, but it also generates net cash collections that likely would not have been realized otherwise. 

We use a combination of internal staff (attorney and support), as well as external attorneys, to pursue legal collections under certain circumstances. Over the past several years we have focused on developing our internal legal collection capability. Throughout 

our markets, we have the capability to initiate lawsuits in amounts up to the jurisdictional limits of the respective courts. Our legal recovery department, using external vendors, also collects claims where appropriate against estates in cases involving deceased debtors having assets at the time of death. Our legal recovery department oversees our internal legal collections and coordinates nationwide collections attorney networks which are responsible for the preparation and filing of judicial collection proceedings in multiple jurisdictions, determining the suit criteria, and instituting wage garnishments to satisfy judgments. Our external law firms usually work on a contingent fee basis. 

Insolvency Operations 

Insolvency Operations in the United States manages customer filings under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on debtor accounts derived from three sources; (1) our purchased pools of bankrupt accounts, (2) our Core purchased pools of charged-off accounts that have filed for bankruptcy or insolvency protection after being acquired by us, and (3) our third-party servicing client relationships. On PRA Group owned accounts, we file proofs of claim ("POCs") or claim transfers and actively manage these accounts through the entire life cycle of the insolvency proceeding in order to substantiate our claims and ensure that we participate in any distributions to creditors. On accounts managed under a third-party relationship, we work on either a full service contingency fee basis or a menu style fee-for-service basis. 

We developed our proprietary Bankruptcy Management System ("BMS") as a highly secured, access controlled platform for providing bankruptcy notification services, filing POCs and claim transfers, managing documents, administering our case load, posting and reconciling payments and providing customized reports. BMS is a robust system designed to manage claims processing and case management in a high-volume, compliance-sensitive environment. The system is highly flexible and its capacity is easily expanded. Daily processing volumes are managed to meet individual bar dates associated with each bankruptcy case and specific client turnaround times. BMS and its underlying business rules were developed with emphasis first on minimizing risks through strict compliance to the bankruptcy code and applicable laws, rules and regulation, and then on maximizing recoveries from electronic claim filing and strategic case administration. 

Each of our insolvency operations employees goes through an entry-level training program to familiarize them with BMS and the bankruptcy process, including a general overview of how we interact with the courts, debtors' attorneys and trustees. We also use a tiered process of cross training designed to familiarize advancing employees with a variety of operational assignments and analytical tasks. For example, we utilize specially trained employees to perform advanced data matching and analytics for clients, while others are tasked with resolving various case matters directly with attorneys and trustees. 

Our global insolvency business operates under the name Insolvency Investment Services. Non-U.S. insolvency operations involve relationships with third-party servicing organizations that are well established in their specific market. We closely monitor and manage these relationships, which include regular audits to verify compliance with PRA Group requirements, as well as local laws and regulations. 

Fee-for-Service Businesses 

Through our subsidiaries, we provide fee-based services, including vehicle location, skip tracing and collateral recovery services for auto lenders, governments and law enforcement via PRA Location Services, LLC ("PLS"); revenue administration, audit, and discovery/recovery services for government entities through PRA Government Services, LLC and MuniServices, LLC, (collectively "PGS"); class action claims recovery services and related payment processing through Claims Compensation Bureau, LLC ("CCB") and contingent collection of finance receivables through PRA Group Europe ("PRA Europe"). 

PLS, through call center operations, performs national skip tracing, asset location and collateral recovery services, principally for auto finance companies, for a fee. In addition, PLS locates clients' inventories for a fee with a fleet of cars equipped with license plate recognition cameras. The amount of fee earned is generally dependent on several different outcomes: whether the debtor was found and a resolution on the account occurred, if the collateral was repossessed or if payment was made by the debtor to the debt owner. 

PGS primarily derives its revenue from servicing taxing authorities in several different ways, including processing their tax payments and tax forms, collecting delinquent taxes, identifying taxes that are not being paid and auditing tax payments. The processing and collection services are standard commission-based billings or fee-for-service transactions. When audits are conducted, there are two components. The first is a charge for the hours incurred on conducting the audit, based on a contractual billing rate. The gross billing amount based on the aforementioned billing rate is a component of the line item "Fee income" while the salary expense is included in the line item "Compensation and employee services." The second item is for expenses incurred while conducting the audit. Most jurisdictions will reimburse us for direct expenses incurred for the audit including such items as travel and meals. The billed amounts are included in the line item "Fee income" and the expense component is included in its appropriate expense category, generally, "Other operating expenses." 

CCB derives its revenue from filing anti-trust and securities class action claims on behalf of institutional investors, retailers, manufacturers, and other businesses. CCB's process allows clients to maximize settlement recoveries, in many cases participating in settlements they would otherwise not know existed. CCB charges fees for its services and works with clients to identify, prepare and submit claims to class action administrators charged with disbursing class action settlement funds. In addition, we purchase the rights to existing and future class action claims identified by CCB. 

PRA Europe contributes to the fee-for-service business through its servicing of finance receivables on a contingent fee basis. These receivables are owned by our clients and placed under a contingent fee commission arrangement. PRA Europe is paid to collect funds from the client's debtors and earns a commission generally expressed as a percentage of the gross cash collections amount. This portion of the "Fee income" line of our income statement reflects the contingent fee amount earned, and not the gross collection amount. 

Competition 

We face competition in both of the markets we serve: receivables purchasing and collecting, and fee-for-service receivables management. Purchased portfolio competition comes from both third-party contingent fee collection agencies and other purchasers of debt that manage their own nonperforming loans or outsource such servicing. Fee-for-service competition comes from new and existing providers of outsourced receivables management services. Many debt owners have become more cautious recently, preferring to sell to experienced portfolio purchasers that maintain compliance with all applicable regulations. This trend effectively constitutes significant barriers to successful entry for new competitors. While both markets remain competitive, the contingent fee industry is more fragmented than the purchased portfolio industry. 

We face bidding competition in our acquisition of nonperforming loans and in obtaining placements for our fee-for-service businesses. We also compete on the basis of reputation, industry experience and performance. Among the positive factors which we believe influence our ability to compete effectively in this market are our ability to bid on portfolios at appropriate prices, our reputation from previous portfolio purchase transactions regarding our ability to close transactions in a timely fashion, our relationships with grantors of receivables, our team of well-trained collectors who provide quality customer service while complying with applicable collection laws, and our ability to efficiently and effectively collect on various asset types. Competitors that have a substantially greater number of personnel; financial and other resources; greater adaptability to changing market needs; or more established relationships in our industry than we currently have, could influence our ability to compete effectively. 

Information Technology 

The information and technology resources of PRA Group support our global businesses through compliant, secure and customer-focused solutions. Continuous review and improvement of our platforms and services ensure that proprietary and third-party solutions are aligned with a customer oriented business strategy. 

Through collaboration with technology and industry leaders our information technology teams have developed a responsive roadmap structured to meet the needs of the unique businesses that make up PRA Group. 

Protecting customer information is a fundamental aspect of our application development and ongoing technology operations. We employ security focused strategies in the development and delivery of systems supporting our global businesses. 

Our Virginia headquarters has two separate telecommunication feeds, uninterruptible power supplies and natural gas and diesel generators, all of which provide a level of redundancy should a power outage or interruption occur. We have generators installed at each of our domestic call centers, as well as some of our subsidiary locations in the United States. The configuration of our locally distributed call control systems provides enterprise-wide call and data distribution between our call centers for efficient portfolio collection and business operations. In addition to data replication between the sites, backups of both software and databases are performed on a daily basis. We employ rigorous physical and electronic security to protect our data. Our call centers have restricted card key access and appropriate additional physical security measures. Electronic protections include data encryption, firewalls and multi-level access controls. 

As PRA Group continues to grow, our information and technology work will remain focused on the evaluation of partnerships, products and services that provide quality, secure, scalable solutions to further position us as a global industry leader. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed 3,799 &#32;persons on a full-time basis in the Americas and Europe. We believe that our relations with our employees are generally satisfactory. While none of our North American employees are represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement, in Europe we work closely with a number of Works Councils, and in countries where it is the customary local practice, such as Finland and Spain, we have collective bargaining agreements. 

Office of General Counsel 

Our Office of General Counsel provides legal evaluation and guidance to all business units across the entire enterprise and manages general corporate governance; litigation; insurance; corporate and commercial transactions; intellectual property; contract and document preparation and review; compliance with federal securities laws and other applicable regulations and statutes; business acquisitions; and dispute and complaint resolution. Our Office of General Counsel also partners with other risk management functions such as Compliance and Corporate Audit Services. 

Compliance 

Our Code of Ethics is available at the Investor Relations page of our website at www.pragroup.com . We have implemented company-wide compliance training for our employees and directors, ethics training and annual compliance testing. In addition, we have established a confidential telephone hotline and email and web-based portals to report suspected policy violations, fraud, embezzlement, deception in record keeping and reporting, accounting, auditing matters and other acts which are inappropriate, criminal and/or unethical. Our Chief Compliance Officer is a direct report to the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and reports to the Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors. Our compliance department regularly tests controls embedded in business processes designed to provide for compliance with laws, regulations and internal policy. These practices of regular internal monitoring and testing assist in identifying compliance risks and detecting and preventing deviations from policy. So that our employees may carry out their job responsibilities in a compliant way, our Office of General Counsel continuously evaluates the legislative and regulatory environment and provides our operations personnel and our training department with summaries and updates on statutory and regulatory changes and relevant case law, so that they are aware of and in compliance with the laws and judicial decisions that may impact their job duties. The Office of General Counsel also works with business units to pro-actively adjust our practices as needed, and advises employees on compliance with the laws and regulations that govern the various industries and markets within which the Company operates. 

Regulation 

We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign statutes that establish specific guidelines and procedures which debt collectors must follow when collecting customer accounts, including domestic and foreign laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personal information. It is our policy to comply with the provisions of all applicable federal laws and corresponding state and local statutes in all of our activities; however, these laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and inconsistent in their interpretation. Our failure to comply with these laws could have an adverse effect on us in the event and to the extent that they apply to some or all of our activities. Federal, state, local, and foreign consumer protection, privacy and related laws and regulations extensively regulate the relationship between debt collectors and debtors, and the relationship between customers and credit card issuers. Significant laws and regulations applicable to our business include the following: 

Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. The U.S. Fair Credit Debt Collection Practices Act ("FDCPA") imposes certain obligations and restrictions on the practices of debt collectors, including specific restrictions regarding communications with customers, including the time, place and manner of the communications. This act also gives consumers certain rights, including the right to dispute the validity of their obligations and a right to sue debt collectors who fail to comply with its provisions, including the right to recover their attorney fees. 

Fair Credit Reporting Act. The U.S. Fair Credit Reporting Act ("FCRA") places certain requirements on credit information providers regarding the verification of the accuracy of information provided to credit reporting agencies and investigating consumer disputes concerning the accuracy of such information. We provide information concerning our accounts to the three major credit reporting agencies, and it is our practice to correctly report this information and to investigate credit reporting disputes. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act amended the Fair Credit Reporting Act to include additional duties applicable to data furnishers with respect to information in the consumer's credit file that the consumer identifies as resulting from identity theft, and requires that data furnishers have procedures in place to prevent such information from being furnished to credit reporting agencies. 

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The U.S. Gramm-Leach Bliley Act requires that certain financial institutions, including collection agencies, develop policies to protect the privacy of consumers' private financial information and provide notices to consumers advising them of their privacy policies. This act also requires that if private personal information concerning a consumer is shared with another unrelated institution, the consumer must be given an opportunity to opt out of having such information shared. Since we do not share consumer information with non-related entities, except as required by law, or except as needed to collect on receivables, our consumers are not entitled to any opt-out rights under this act. This act is enforced by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC"), which has retained exclusive jurisdiction over its enforcement, and does not afford a private cause of action to consumers who may wish to pursue legal action against a financial institution for violations of this act. 

Electronic Funds Transfer Act. The U.S. Electronic Funds Transfer Act regulates the use of the Automated Clearing House ("ACH") system to make electronic funds transfers. All ACH transactions must comply with the rules of the National Automated Check Clearing House Association ("NACHA") and Uniform Commercial Code &#167;3-402. This act, the NACHA regulations and the Uniform Commercial Code give the consumer, among other things, certain privacy rights with respect to electronic fund transfer transactions, the right to stop payments on a pre-approved fund transfer, and the right to receive certain documentation of the transaction. This act also gives consumers a right to sue institutions which cause financial damages as a result of their failure to comply with its provisions. 

Telephone Consumer Protection Act. In the process of collecting accounts, we use a variety of methods to communicate with our customers. This U.S. act and similar state laws place certain restrictions on users of certain automated dialing equipment and pre-recorded messages that place telephone calls to consumers. 

Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. The Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940 was amended in December 2003 as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act ("SCRA"). The SCRA gives U.S. military service personnel relief from credit obligations they may have incurred prior to entering military service, and may also apply in certain circumstances to obligations and liabilities incurred by a servicemember while serving on active duty. The SCRA prohibits creditors from taking specified actions to collect the nonperforming loans of servicemembers. The SCRA impacts many different types of credit obligations, including installment contracts and court proceedings, and tolls the statute of limitations during the time that the servicemember is engaged in active military service. The SCRA also places a cap on interest bearing obligations of servicemembers to an amount not greater than 6% per year, inclusive of all related charges and fees. 

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ("HIPAA") provides standards to protect the confidentiality of patients' personal healthcare and financial information in the United States. Pursuant to HIPAA, business associates of health care providers, such as agencies which collect healthcare receivables, must comply with certain privacy and security standards established by HIPAA to ensure that the information provided will be safeguarded from misuse. This act is enforced by the Department of Health and Human Services and does not afford a private cause of action to consumers who may wish to pursue legal action against an institution for violations of this act. 

U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In order to prevent any collection activity with bankrupt debtors by creditors and collection agencies, the U.S. Bankruptcy Code provides for an automatic stay, which prohibits certain contacts with consumers after the filing of bankruptcy petitions. The U.S. Bankruptcy Code also dictates what types of claims will or will not be allowed in a bankruptcy proceeding and how such claims may be discharged. 

Americans with Disabilities Act. The Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA"), signed into law in 1990, mandates equal treatment for people with disabilities in the United States. More specifically, the ADA requires that telecommunications companies operating in the United States take steps to ensure functionally equivalent services are available for their consumers with disabilities, and requires accommodation of consumers with disabilities, such as the implementation of telecommunications relay services. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act . On July 21, 2010 the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") became law, and along with it, the Unfair, Deceptive, or Abusive Acts or Practices ("UDAAP") provisions included therein. The Dodd-Frank Act restructured the regulation and supervision of the financial services industry in the United States and created the CFPB, with rulemaking, supervisory, and enforcement authority over larger consumer debt collectors. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for the CFPB to have the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being "unfair," "deceptive," or "abusive," and hence unlawful. Additional prohibitions against unfair or deceptive acts or practices are included in Sec. 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, under which the Federal Trade Commission is empowered, among other things, to seek monetary redress and other relief for conduct considered injurious to consumers, prescribe rules defining acts or practices that are unfair or deceptive and conduct investigations relating to business practices. 

U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, United Kingdom Bribery Act and Other Applicable Legislation . Our operations outside the United States are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), which prohibits United States companies and their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in order to obtain an unfair advantage, to help, obtain or retain business. Violations of these laws and related rules and regulations can result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions. 

The U.S. Congress and several states have enacted legislation concerning identity theft. Additional domestic and foreign consumer protection and privacy protection laws may be enacted relating to credit card or installment accounts. 

Our United Kingdom subsidiaries are subject to regulatory oversight by the Financial Services Authority ("FSA") under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. In April 2013, the FSA was split into a new Prudential Regulatory Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA"). In April 2014, the FCA took over regulation of the United Kingdom consumer credit regime previously regulated by the Office of Fair Trading. We must also comply with the provisions of the Data Protection Act of 1998, 

authorization, notification and reporting requirements specific to our operations in the United Kingdom, and in Canada, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act. 

Under the United Kingdom's consumer credit regime, the requirements for entering into, and ongoing management of, consumer credit agreements are included in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (and its related regulations), the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations of 1999 and the FCA's consumer credit conduct of business rules. Failure to comply with the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations of 1999 can make agreements (or particular unfair terms contained within agreements) unenforceable or can result in a requirement that charged and collected interest be repaid. The failure to comply with the FCA's consumer credit conduct of business rules can result in enforcement action being taken against us. In addition, a debt owner under a regulated consumer credit agreement who is a private person may have a right of action against us where it has suffered a loss as a result of our failure to comply with such rules. 

In addition to the regulations on debt collection and debt purchase activities, we must comply with requirements established by the United Kingdom Data Protection Act of 1998 in relation to processing the personal data of its consumers and similar national legislation in other European countries. Similarly, the European Union's (the "EU") Data Protection Directive regulates the processing and free movement of personal data within the EU and transfer of such data outside the EU. 

Various domestic and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact new or additional laws and regulations, including those concerning privacy, data-retention and data-protection issues. Any new laws, rules or regulations that may be adopted, as well as existing consumer protection and privacy protection laws, may adversely affect our ability to recover the receivables. In addition, our failure to comply with these requirements could result in damage awards, fines, criminal actions, sanctions, or penalties against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, damage to our reputation and adverse effects on our ability to enforce the receivables. 

Additionally, there are some state statutes and regulations comparable to the above federal laws, and specific licensing requirements which affect our operations. State laws may also limit credit account interest rates and fees, as well as limit the time frame in which judicial and non-judicial actions may be undertaken. 

Some of the following United States laws, which apply principally to credit grantors, may also affect our operations to some extent: 

&#8226; 

Truth in Lending Act; 

&#8226; 

Fair Credit Billing Act; and 

&#8226; 

Equal Credit Opportunity Act. 

United States federal laws which regulate credit grantors require, among other things, that credit card issuers disclose to consumers the interest rates, fees, grace periods and balance calculation methods associated with their credit card accounts. Consumers are entitled under current laws to have payments and credits applied to their accounts promptly, to receive prescribed notices and to require billing errors to be resolved promptly. Some laws prohibit discriminatory practices in connection with the extension of credit. Federal statutes further provide that, in some cases, consumers cannot be held liable for, or their liability is limited with respect to, charges to the credit card account that were a result of an unauthorized use of the credit card. These laws, among others, may give consumers a legal cause of action against us, or may limit our ability to recover amounts owing with respect to the receivables, whether or not we committed any wrongful act or omission in connection with the account. If the credit grantor fails to comply with applicable statutes, rules and regulations, it could create claims and rights for consumers that could reduce or eliminate their obligations to repay the account and have a possible adverse effect on us. Accordingly, when we acquire nonperforming loans, typically we contractually require credit grantors to indemnify us against any losses caused by their failure to comply with applicable statutes, rules and regulations relating to the receivables before they are sold to us. 

The U.S. Congress and several states have enacted legislation concerning identity theft. Additional consumer protection and privacy protection laws may be enacted domestically or in foreign jurisdictions that would impose additional requirements on the enforcement of and recovery on consumer credit card or installment accounts. As a purchaser of nonperforming loans, we may acquire receivables subject to legitimate defenses on the part of the consumer. Typically our account purchase contracts allow us to return to the debt owners certain receivables that may not be collectible, due to these and other circumstances. Upon return, the debt owners are required to compensate us or replace the receivables with similar receivables or repurchase the receivables. These provisions limit to some extent our losses on such accounts. 

In addition to our obligation to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also obligated to comply with judicial decisions reached in court cases involving legislation passed by any such governmental bodies. Specifically, in accordance with the CRD IV, the Swedish Banking and Financing Business Act and the Supervision of Credit and Investment Institutions Act, certain of our EU subsidiaries are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity requirements as prescribed by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority ("SFSA"). As part of our acquisition of Aktiv, 

the SFSA made an initial determination that these requirements would apply to our European business on a consolidated basis because they are included in a group that includes an entity which has been determined to be an EU authorized credit institution (AK Nordic AB). If the SFSA affirms this position, our European operations could be subject to SFSA's prudential supervision of our consolidated regulatory capital requirements and certain other applicable provisions. 

