 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

When used in this report, the terms &#147;Cott,&#148; &#147;the Company,&#148; &#147;our Company,&#148; &#147;Cott Corporation,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; or &#147;our&#148; mean Cott Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. 

We incorporated in 1955 and are governed by the Canada Business Corporations Act. Our registered Canadian office is located at 333 Avro Avenue, Pointe-Claire, Quebec, Canada H9R 5W3 and our principal executive offices are located at 5519 W. Idlewild Avenue, Tampa, Florida, United States 33634 and 6525 Viscount Road, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada L4V 1H6. 

Our Company 

With the acquisition of DS Services of America, Inc. (&#147;DSS&#148;) in December 2014, we combined a leading provider in the direct-to-consumer beverage services industry with our traditional business, one of the world&#146;s largest producers of beverages on behalf of retailers, brand owners and distributors. We now have the largest volume-based national presence in the U.S. home and office delivery (&#147;HOD&#148;) industry for bottled water and one of the five largest national market share positions in the U.S. office coffee services (&#147;OCS&#148;) and filtration services industries. We reach over 1.5 million customers (approximately 60% commercial and 40% residential) through over 2,000 routes located across our national network supported by national sales and distribution facilities, as well as a fleet of over 2,000 vehicles. Our broad portfolio allows us to offer, on a direct-to-consumer basis, a variety of bottled water, coffee, brewed tea, water dispensers, coffee and tea brewers and filtration equipment. With the ability to cover approximately 90% of U.S. households, in terms of geography, we believe we have the broadest distribution network in the direct-to-consumer beverage services industry in the United States, which enables us to efficiently service residences and small and medium size businesses, as well as national corporations, universities and government agencies. 

Our Operations 

During 2015, our business operated through four reporting segments: DSS, Cott North America, Cott United Kingdom (&#147;Cott U.K.&#148;) and All Other (which includes our Mexico operating segment, Royal Crown International (&#147;RCI&#148;) operating segment and other miscellaneous expenses). We refer to our Cott North America, Cott U.K. and All Other reporting segments together as our &#147;traditional business&#148;. Our corporate oversight function (&#147;Corporate&#148;) is not treated as a segment; it includes certain general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the reporting segments. In December 2014, in connection with the acquisition of DSS (the &#147;DSS Acquisition&#148;), DSS was added as a fourth reporting segment. During the fourth quarter of 2013, management reviewed our reporting segments and decided to combine our Mexico, RCI and All Other reporting segments into one reporting segment classified as All Other. 

DSS 

Our DSS reporting segment provides direct-to-consumer bottled water, coffee and water filtration services to customers in North America. DSS products include bottled water, coffee, brewed tea, water dispensers, coffee and tea brewers and filtration equipment. DSS&#146;s net revenue was $1,021.1 million and $28.7 million, and represented 34.7% and 1.4% of our total net revenue for the fiscal years ended January 2, 2016 and January 3, 2015, respectively (the fiscal year ended January 3, 2015 reflects two weeks of DSS operations following the closing of the acquisition of DSS in December 2014). 

Traditional Business 

Our traditional business consists of our Cott North America, Cott U.K. and All Other reporting segments. 

Our traditional business produces, either directly or through third-party manufacturers with whom we have co-packing arrangements, carbonated soft drinks (&#147;CSDs&#148;), 100% shelf stable juice and juice-based products, clear, still and sparkling flavored waters, energy drinks and shots, sports drinks, new age beverages, ready-to-drink teas, liquid enhancers, freezables, ready-to-drink alcoholic beverages, hot chocolate, coffee, malt drinks, creamers/whiteners, cereals and beverage concentrates. Cott North America&#146;s net revenue from external customers was $1,308.3 million, $1,411.2 million and $1,535.2 million, and represented 44.4%, 67.1% and 73.3% of our total net revenue for the fiscal years ended January 2, 2016, January 3, 2015 and December 28, 2013, respectively. Cott U.K.&#146;s net revenue was $557.0 million, $597.9 million and $494.3 million, and represented 18.9%, 28.4% and 23.6% of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended January 2, 2016, January 3, 

&#160;

2015 and December 28, 2013, respectively. All Other&#146;s net revenue was $57.6 million, $65.0 million and $64.5 million, and represented 2.0%, 3.1% and 3.1% of our total net revenue for the fiscal years ended January 2, 2016, January 3, 2015 and December 28, 2013, respectively. 

Competitive Strengths 

The combination of our national scale and density of our routes in key markets, our industry-leading infrastructure, and our emphasis on superior customer service is intended to create significant competitive strengths. With respect to our DSS business, we continually invest in our delivery infrastructure, call center and service capabilities to maintain our established position as a leader in this segment. In addition, we have developed and implemented proprietary information technology systems, including GPS-enabled handheld order management systems and our route operations management dashboard, in order to consistently enhance our delivery efficiency and daily route density. We believe these investments have uniquely positioned us to capitalize on a number of positive industry dynamics and new growth opportunities. First, we intend to capture new customers as we capitalize on favorable consumer trends across our addressable markets, including increased focus on health and wellness, concerns about deteriorating municipal water quality and the shift to single-cup coffee systems. Second, we believe our ability to cross-sell complementary water and coffee products and services represents a significant untapped opportunity; approximately 5% of our commercial water delivery customer locations purchase our coffee products. Third, the highly fragmented market in which we operate affords us ample opportunity to make the most of our scale, systems and customer density to execute synergistic tuck-in acquisitions across all of our service areas. We believe these strengths, along with the strengths outlined below, will allow us to capitalize on future opportunities to drive sustainable and profitable growth. 

Leading Position in Multiple Beverage Categories with Diverse Products and Services Portfolio 

With the DSS Acquisition, we combined a leading provider in the direct-to-consumer beverage services industry with our traditional business, one of the world&#146;s largest producers of beverages on behalf of retailers, brand owners and distributors. We have the largest national presence in the U.S. HOD bottled water industry by volume and are one of the top five presences in the OCS and filtration services industries. The HOD bottled water and OCS market segments in the U.S. exhibited strong growth, and we believe we are well-positioned to capitalize on future growth given our leading position in both market segments. In bottled water, we offer a portfolio of well-known regional brands with longstanding heritages, such as Sparkletts, Hinckley Springs, and Kentwood Springs, which have contributed to our being the largest or one of the largest HOD bottled water providers in most cities in which we operate. In OCS, we offer a complete range of products under leading brands including Keurig &#174; , Mars Alterra &#174; , Starbucks &#174; Coffee, Caribou Coffee &#174; , Peet&#146;s Coffee &#38; Tea &#174; and Javarama &#174; . We are one of the only direct-to-customer providers that can offer comprehensive services to residential customers and small and medium-sized businesses, as well as large regional and national corporations and retailers, universities and government agencies. Our broad direct-to-consumer network creates an advantage in marketing and customer reach, while our extensive range of products and capabilities allows us to offer customers a convenient, single solution for coffee, tea and high quality drinking water. We believe our position will be further strengthened through our ongoing efforts to enhance and promote our full-service beverage offering to new and existing customers. 

Our traditional business focuses on marketing or supplying retailer, licensed and Company-owned brands, as well as manufacturing beverages on a contract basis for national brand customers. We also sell CSD concentrates and non-carbonated concentrates internationally. We believe that our position as a market leader, our broad portfolio offering and our existing infrastructure will enable us to continue to penetrate the contract manufacturing, private-label and value brand markets, whether by winning new customers, launching new product stock keeping units (&#147;SKUs&#148;) with existing customers, or supplying retailers who currently self-manufacture. 

Extensive, Flexible Manufacturing and Distribution Capabilities 

Our business is supported by our extensive international manufacturing and distribution network and our flexible production capabilities. Our manufacturing footprint encompasses strategically located beverage manufacturing, production, distribution and fruit processing facilities in North America, which includes combined production and distribution facilities supporting our DSS business, in the United Kingdom and in Mexico. In addition, we have a vertically-integrated global concentrate manufacturing facility in Columbus, Georgia that supplies our manufacturing plants and RCI&#146;s global customer base. We also have a state of the art customer service call center for the DSS business in the United States. 

Manufacturing flexibility is one of our core competencies and is critical to our success, as our products will typically feature customized packaging, design and graphics for our key customers. We believe our ability to produce multiple SKUs and packages on our production lines and manage complexities through quick-line changeover processes differentiates us from our competition. 

&#160;

With the DSS Acquisition, we believe we own the largest combined national production and distribution network for HOD, OCS and filtration services, serving approximately 1.5 million customers in the United States. DSS operates a national footprint of branch distribution facilities, combined production and distribution facilities and over 2,000 direct-to-consumer routes. We believe that having the largest national HOD production and distribution network in the industry gives us the ability to reduce our purchasing, manufacturing and delivery costs relative to our competitors. 

High Levels of Customer Service and Strong Customer Integration 

Our traditional business requires a high level of coordination with our customers in areas such as supply chain, product development and customer service. In addition to efficiently managing complex product manufacturing, we have a proven track record of maintaining high service levels across our customer base. We partner closely with customers on supply chain planning and execution to minimize freight costs, reduce working capital requirements and increase in-store product availability. We work as partners with our customers on new product development and packaging designs. Our role includes providing market expertise as well as knowledge of category trends that may present opportunities for our customers. A high level of customer integration and partnership coupled with an international manufacturing footprint is critical for the development of successful beverage programs for our customers. 

Customer service in DSS&#146;s HOD and OCS businesses are driven by its Route Sales Representatives (&#147;RSRs&#148;). As the consumer facing part of the business, RSRs are an important part of the customer relationship. DSS provides reliable deliveries and closely tracks call center and customer service metrics to continually improve customer satisfaction. 

Strategic Importance to Our Customers 

We have longstanding partnerships with many of the world&#146;s leading retailers in the grocery, mass-merchandise and drug store channels, as well as customers for whom we manufacture beverages on a contract basis, giving our customers access to high-quality, affordable beverages. Our competitive advantages include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; beverage manufacturing expertise; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; vertically integrated, low-cost production platform; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; one-stop sourcing; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; category insights and marketing expertise; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; supply chain and high quality consistency in products; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product innovation and differentiation. With the DSS Acquisition, we have an extensive HOD and OCS distribution network with a unique ability to service customers. We believe few competitors have a comparable footprint or infrastructure to support local, regional and national accounts directly, which differentiates us in the industry. DSS&#146;s scaled network has allowed it to secure strategic relationships, which have been successful in attracting new customers and leveraging its production and delivery infrastructure. Furthermore, with DSS&#146;s HOD and OCS trucks and RSRs, we are able to provide multiple products to our customers at minimal additional cost and generate additional profits on those incremental sales. 

For 2015, our top 10 customers accounted for 32.2% of total revenue. Walmart accounted for 18.0% of our total revenue for the year. We have established long-standing relationships with most of our top 10 customers. As a result of our high product quality and commitment to service, coupled with an international manufacturing and distribution footprint, we believe we will continue to play a meaningful role in helping our customers develop strategies to build loyalty with consumers. 

Business Strategy 

Our vision is to continue to strengthen Cott by holding volume stable and focusing on revenue growth, which should in turn lead to strong free cash flow generation, higher margins, lower customer concentration, and hence lower risk, and ultimately result in a higher valuation that is more in line with our peer group. We have developed five building blocks or steps towards achieving this vision. 

&#160;

Grow Contract Manufacturing and Other Beverage Categories in Our Traditional Business 

The first step of our vision and the foundation of our business strategy, is to hold the volume of our traditional business broadly stable through growing our sparkling water and mixer category and contract manufacturing channel to offset declines in private label CSDs and shelf stable juices, and continue to focus on our &#147;4Cs&#148; of customers, costs, capex and cash. 

Maintain Customer Focus 

Customer relationships are important for any business, but at Cott, where many of our products bear our customers&#146; brand names, we must maintain particularly close partnerships with our customers. We will continue to provide our customers with high quality products and services at an attractive value that will help them provide quality, value-oriented products to their consumers. We will continue to focus on our high levels of customer service, as well as innovations through the introduction of new packages, flavors and varieties of beverages. We believe our focus on our customers will enable us to leverage our existing relationships and to develop new ones in current and new markets. 

Control Operating Costs 

We understand that our long-term success will be closely tied to our ability to remain a low-cost supplier. Effective management of our operating costs is critical to our success. As part of our ongoing management of costs, we enter into contract commitments with suppliers of key raw materials such as aluminum sheet metal, high fructose corn syrup (&#147;HFCS&#148;), polyethylene terephthalate (&#147;PET&#148;) bottles, caps and preforms, fruit and fruit concentrates. On an ongoing basis we review our fixed overhead and manufacturing costs for opportunities for further reductions. In 2011, we transformed the Company&#146;s information technology function from a nearly 100% outsourced, single vendor relationship to a combination of in-house resources and multi-vendor strategy, significantly reducing our total information technology spending. In 2012, we vertically integrated our manufacturing capabilities in order to manufacture our products with increased efficiency and at a lower cost. In 2014, we implemented our three-year $30.0 million cost reduction plan, which focuses on reducing production costs by improving procurement practices, increasing operational efficiency, eliminating waste and reducing packaging cost, resulting in approximately $9.0 million and $6.0 million in cost savings in 2015 and 2014. Our low cost position will be further supported by cost saving initiatives at DSS, which included reformulation of DSS&#146;s periodic surcharge in 2012 to more closely align with the cost of petroleum-based products used in the business to mitigate the effect of increases in petroleum-based product costs. 

Control Capital Expenditures and Rigorously Manage Working Capital 

Consistent with our status as a low-cost supplier, we leverage our existing manufacturing capacity to maintain an efficient supply chain. We are committed to carefully prioritizing our capital investments that provide the best financial returns for Cott and for our customers, while maintaining safety, efficiency and superior product quality. Our manufacturing facilities operate according to the highest standards of safety and product quality. We perform regular third-party audits of our facilities and are subject to quality audits on behalf of our customers. We will continue to evaluate growth and other opportunities, while remaining mindful of our total capital expenditure targets. As a low-cost supplier, we actively manage our manufacturing capacity and routinely rationalize under-utilized assets. In 2015, our capital expenditures were devoted primarily to supporting growth in our business, maintaining existing facilities, making equipment upgrades and continuing to implement our cost reduction plan. 

Cash Flow Management 

We believe that a strong financial position will enable us to capitalize on opportunities in the marketplace. As a result, we continuously review and improve the effectiveness of our cash management processes. We strive to achieve the most optimal working capital level, rationalize our capital expenditures and continuously drive operating cost improvements to enhance cash flow. 

Focus on DSS Organic Growth 

Our goal is to position DSS to profitably grow the business and create shareowner value by focusing on expanding the customer base, and increasing revenue per customer through cross-selling and enhanced product offerings. 

We will continue to capitalize on our strong direct-to-consumer distribution network and strategic partnerships to expand our customer base. Our nation-wide coverage provides us a significant advantage in competing for national commercial accounts, which is an increasingly important component of our distribution strategy and marketing efforts. We also remain focused on small and medium-sized businesses, a market segment that we believe remains underpenetrated. 

&#160;

We expect our strategic partnerships to further add to growth and reflect our ability to market our products through new channels to attract new customers. We believe that replicating this model with additional partners will expand our access to customers and accelerate our growth. 

We believe our ability to cross-sell complementary water and coffee products and services represents a significant untapped opportunity as nearly all our existing and target customers consume both products. We are well-positioned to capitalize on this opportunity given the large installed customer base with which we have strong relationships and frequent face-to-face interactions. RSRs are trained to sell across our product set and are highly incentivized through our commission structure to promote new products to existing customers, which increases sales and average revenue per customer. We currently provide office coffee products to approximately 5% of our commercial water delivery customer locations, and, as a result, we believe there exists substantial opportunity to cross-sell our coffee products, which would generate incremental revenue per customer with minimal increases in delivery costs. To assist our RSRs in cross-selling coffee products, we have successfully rolled out the AquaCafe, a newly designed bottom loading bottled water cooler with an integrated single-cup coffee brewer. This machine not only capitalizes on growth in the single-cup coffee market, but increases overall consumption as the bottled water is used to produce the single-cup coffee. 

Capture DSS Synergies 

We captured $10.0 million of DSS synergies in 2015. We have established a goal of delivering approximately $10.0 million of incremental synergies in 2016 and 2017, for a total expected delivery of $30.0 million of DSS synergies by the end of 2017. 

Pursue Synergistic HOD Water, OCS and Filtration Tuck-In Acquisitions 

We intend to proactively pursue accretive acquisitions to complement our organic growth. The highly fragmented market in which we operate affords us ample opportunities to execute synergistic HOD water, OCS and filtration tuck-in acquisitions. For instance, there are thousands of regional and local water delivery operators. OCS and filtration services are even more fragmented with the top five providers aggregating for approximately 20% and 52% market share, respectively. Our acquisition strategy is consistent with our objective to continually build customer density and reduce the overall cost of servicing our existing customer base. We have a proven track record of achieving significant synergies and integrating companies onto our platform and we believe we will continue to improve our profitability and margins through acquisitions. 

During the year ended January 2, 2016, we acquired nine separate HOD water businesses. These acquisitions support our previously announced objective of strategic acquisitions where we expect to be able to capitalize on synergies with our existing business. 

Evaluate Mid-to-Larger Scale Acquisitions 

Our business strategy also includes evaluating additional mid-to-larger scale opportunities to consolidate our positions in the HOD water, OCS and filtration services categories, as well as other higher margin or growth-oriented categories where our platform, operating strength and synergies can be leveraged. This is consistent with our ongoing strategy to continue to accelerate the pace and scale of our acquisition-based diversification outside of CSDs and shelf stable juices, with a focus on other beverage categories and beverage adjacencies, as well as driving our channel mix beyond large format retail and supermarket stores while ensuring our transactions are value-creative. 

Principal Market Segments and Products 

We estimate that we are one of the largest service providers of HOD bottled water, and produce (either directly or through third-party manufacturers with whom we have co-packing agreements) a significant portion of all retailer brand CSDs and juice sold in North America, as well as a significant portion of all retailer brand CSDs, sports and energy products sold in the United Kingdom. 

As a producer of beverages on behalf of retailers, brand owners and distributors, we have a diversified product portfolio across major beverage categories, including beverages that are on-trend with consumer demand. With the DSS Acquisition, we believe we have the largest national presence in the HOD industry for bottled water, with a distribution network reaching approximately 90% of the U.S. population, and one of the top five positions in the U.S. OCS and filtration services industries. 

&#160;

We believe that opportunities exist to increase sales of our products in our core markets by optimizing existing customer relationships, capitalizing on cross-selling and up-selling opportunities, obtaining new customers, manufacturing beverages (including alcoholic beverages) on a contract basis for new and existing customers, exploring new channels of distribution, introducing new products and vertically integrating our traditional and DSS businesses which will allow us to manufacture, sell and distribute a variety of beverages through our DSS delivery channel and its broad reaching distribution network. 

Restructuring Initiatives 

We implement restructuring programs from time to time that are designed to improve operating effectiveness and lower costs. When we implement these programs, we incur various charges, including severance and other employment related costs. We did not incur any restructuring charges in 2015. 

During the first quarter of 2014, we implemented one such program, which involved the closure of two of our smaller plants, one located in North America and the other located in the United Kingdom (the &#147;2014 Restructuring Plan&#148;). For the year ended January 3, 2015, we incurred charges of approximately $4.1 million related primarily to employee redundancy costs and relocation of assets, and non-cash charges related to asset impairments and accelerated depreciation on property, plant and equipment in connection with the 2014 Restructuring Plan. During June 2013, we implemented another such program (the &#147;2013 Restructuring Plan&#148;), which consisted primarily of headcount reductions and resulted in charges of approximately $2.0 million during the year ended December 28, 2013. 

Financial Information about Segments 

For financial information about reporting segments and geographic areas, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Manufacturing and Distribution Network 

Our business is supported by our extensive international manufacturing and distribution network and our flexible production capabilities. Our manufacturing footprint encompasses strategically located beverage manufacturing, production, distribution and fruit processing facilities in North America, which includes combined production and distribution facilities supporting our DSS business, in the United Kingdom and Mexico. 

In our traditional business, our products are either picked up by our customers at our facilities or delivered by us, a common carrier, or third-party distributors to our customers&#146; distribution centers, or to retail or wholesaler locations. 

In our DSS business, we operate a national footprint of branch distribution facilities, combined production and distribution facilities and over 2,000 direct-to-consumer routes. We believe that having the broadest national HOD production and distribution network in the industry gives us the ability to reduce our purchasing, manufacturing and delivery costs relative to our competitors. 

Ingredient and Packaging Supplies 

In addition to water, the principal raw materials required to produce our products are aluminum cans and ends, resin for PET, high-density polyethylene (&#147;HDPE&#148;) and polycarbonate bottles, caps and preforms, labels, cartons and trays, sweeteners, such as HFCS and sugar, fruit concentrates and fruit. The cost of these raw materials can fluctuate substantially over time. 

Under many of our supply arrangements for these raw materials, the price we pay fluctuates along with certain changes in underlying commodity costs, such as aluminum in the case of cans and ends, resin in the case of PET, HDPE and polycarbonate bottles, caps and preforms, corn in the case of HFCS, fruit and fruit concentrates. We believe that we will be able to either renegotiate contracts with these suppliers when they expire or find alternative sources for supply. We also believe there is adequate supply of the ingredient and packaging materials used to produce and package our products. 

Generally, we bear the risk of increases in the costs of the ingredient and packaging materials used to produce our products, including the underlying costs of the commodities used to manufacture them and, to some extent, the costs of converting those commodities into the materials we purchase. 

Aluminum for cans and ends, resin for PET, HDPE and polycarbonate bottles, caps and preforms, corn for HFCS, sugar, fruit and fruit concentrates are examples of underlying commodities for which we bear the risk of increases in costs. In 

&#160;

addition, the contracts for certain of our ingredient and packaging materials permit our suppliers to increase the costs they charge us based on increases in their cost of converting the underlying commodities into the materials we purchase. In certain cases those increases are subject to negotiated limits. Changes in the prices we pay for ingredient and packaging materials occur at times that vary by product and supplier, and take place on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis. 

PET resin prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years as the price of oil, one of its components, has fluctuated and demand for synthetic fibers, an alternate use, has increased. Because resin is not a traded commodity, no fixed price mechanism has been implemented, and we expect to pay prevailing market prices for our resin needs, although at times we have been able to enter into short-term fixed price commitments. 

Corn has a history of volatile price changes. The sugar market is susceptible to volatility as well. 

Fruit and fruit concentrate prices have been, and we expect them to continue to be, subject to significant volatility. While fruit is available from numerous independent suppliers, these raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to, among other things, changes in crop size and federal and state agricultural programs. 

A portion of our revenues is derived from coffee product distribution. The supply and price of coffee beans may be affected by weather, international conditions, consumer demand, and access to transportation. An increase in the price of coffee beans could reduce our coffee sales and coffee product margins, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Trade Secrets, Copyrights, Trademarks and Licenses 

We sell the majority of our beverages under retailer brands to customers who own the trademarks associated with those products. We also own registrations, or applications to register, various trademarks that are important to our worldwide business, including Cott &#174; and Red Rain &#174; in North America and the United Kingdom, Stars &#38; Stripes &#174; , Vess &#174; , Vintage &#174; , So Clear &#174; , Shanstar &#174; , Harvest Classic &#174; , Chadwick Bay &#174; , Exact &#174; , Alhambra &#174; , Belmont Springs &#174; , Deep Rock &#174; , Hinckley Springs &#174; , Sparkletts &#174; , Crystal Springs &#174; , Kentwood Springs &#174; , Mount Olympus &#174; Standard Coffee &#174; and Javarama &#174; in the United States, Emerge &#174; , Red Rooster &#174; , MacB &#174; , Carters &#174; , Calypso &#174; , Mr. Freeze &#174; , Jubbly &#174; , Suso &#174; , Cafe Nueva &#174; and Ben Shaws &#174; in the United Kingdom, Stars &#38; Stripes &#174; in Mexico, and RC &#174; mark in various formats in more than 120 countries and territories outside of North America. Moreover, we are licensed to use certain trademarks such as Old Jamaica Ginger Beer &#153; and Ting &#153; in the United Kingdom. The licenses to which we are a party are of varying terms, including some that are perpetual. Trademark ownership is generally of indefinite duration when marks are properly maintained in commercial use. 

Our success depends in part on our intellectual property, which includes trade secrets in the form of concentrate formulas for our beverages and trademarks for the names of the beverages we sell. To protect this intellectual property, we rely principally on registration of trademarks, contractual responsibilities and restrictions in agreements (such as indemnification, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements) with employees, consultants and customers, and on the common law and/or statutory protections afforded to trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and proprietary &#147;know-how.&#148; We also closely monitor the use of our trademarks and when necessary vigorously pursue any party that infringes on our trademarks, using all available legal remedies. 

Seasonality of Sales and Working Capital 

The beverage market is subject to some seasonal variations. Our beverage and water delivery sales are generally higher during the warmer months, while sales of our coffee products are generally higher during cooler months and also can be influenced by the timing of holidays and weather fluctuations. Our purchases of raw materials and related accounts payable fluctuate based upon the demand for our products as well as the timing of the fruit growing seasons. The seasonality of our sales volume combined with the seasonal nature of fruit growing causes our working capital needs to fluctuate throughout the year, with inventory levels increasing in the first half of the year in order to meet high summer demand, and with fruit inventories peaking during the last quarter of the year when purchases are made after the growing season. In addition, our accounts receivable balances decline in the fall as customers pay their higher-than-average outstanding balances from summer deliveries. 

Customers 

A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated in a small number of customers particularly in our traditional business. Our customers include many large national and regional grocery, mass-merchandise, drugstore, wholesale and convenience store chains, as well as customers for whom we manufacture beverages on a contract basis. For 2015, sales to 

&#160;

Walmart accounted for 18.0% of our total revenue (2014&#151;26.1%; 2013&#151;30.1%), 33.2% of our Cott North America reporting segment revenue (2014&#151;33.3%; 2013&#151;36.1%), 11.5% of our Cott U.K. reporting segment revenue (2014&#151;12.7%; 2013&#151;14.8%), 3.7% of our All Other reporting segment revenue (2014&#151;3.8%; 2013&#151;3.9%) and 2.2% of our DSS reporting segment revenue (2014&#151;2.7%). Walmart was the only customer that accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in those periods. Sales to our top ten customers in 2015, 2014 and 2013 accounted for 32.2%, 46.5% and 50.0%, respectively, of our total revenue. We expect that sales of our products to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of revenue in our traditional business for the foreseeable future. The loss of any customers that individually or in the aggregate represent a significant portion of our revenue, or a decline in sales to these customers, would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flow. 

We supply Walmart and its affiliated companies, under annual non-exclusive supply agreements, with a variety of products in North America, the United Kingdom, and Mexico, including CSDs, clear, still and sparkling flavored waters, 100% shelf stable juice, juice-based products, bottled water, energy products, sports products, new age beverages and ready-to-drink teas. In 2015, we supplied Walmart with all of its private-label CSDs in the United States. In the event Walmart were to utilize additional suppliers to fulfill a portion of its requirements for CSDs, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

Research and Development 

We engage in a variety of research and development activities. These activities principally involve the development of new products, improvement in the quality of existing products, improvement and modernization of production processes, and the development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. Research and development costs were $2.8 million in 2015, $2.9 million in 2014 and $3.1 million in 2013 and are included as a component of selling, general and administrative (&#147;SG&#38;A&#148;) expenses. 

Competition 

In our traditional business, we compete principally in the non-alcoholic beverages category, which is highly competitive in each region in which we operate. Competition for incremental retail volume is intense. The brands owned by the four major national non-alcoholic beverage companies, Coca-Cola, Pepsi, Nestle Waters North America and Dr. Pepper Snapple (formerly Cadbury Schweppes), control 62.2% of the total CSD and alternative beverage category within the United States. These companies have significant financial resources and spend heavily on promotional programs. They also have direct store delivery systems in North America, which enable their personnel to visit retailers frequently to promote new items, stock shelves and build displays. We also face competition in the juice category from juice brands such as Welch&#146;s, Ocean Spray and Mott&#146;s. In addition, we face competition in North America, the United Kingdom and Mexico from regional beverage manufacturers who sell aggressively priced brands and, in many cases, also supply retailer brand products. A few larger U.S. retailers also self-manufacture products for their own needs and regularly approach other retailers seeking additional business. 

Our principal competitor in the three gallon (&#147;3G&#148;) and five gallon (&#147;5G&#148;) HOD bottled water business is Nestle, which competes with us directly in many of our markets within the United States. We face competition in our HOD business as distribution methods for residential and commercial bottled water products continue to change and evolve, including increasing availability of 3G and 5G water bottles in retail stores. This could affect our business as some customers may choose to purchase water in returnable bottles through retailers rather than through our sales and distribution network. We have a strategic alliance with Primo Water Corporation (&#147;Primo&#148;) to bottle and distribute Primo&#146;s 3G and 5G water bottles through retail stores, however, customers could choose to purchase Primo&#146;s competitors&#146; retail products. Our HOD business also faces increased competition from filtration units in the residential and commercial market, including countertop filtration, faucet mounted filtration, in-line whole-house filtration, water filtration dispensing products and refrigerator-dispensed filtration. Because homes and offices with installed filtration systems participate at a lower rate in the bottled water market, the installation of these systems poses a competitive threat to our business and reduces the number of potential customers for our bottled water products. Although we compete in the filtration area and have realized growth of our filtration customer base, we may not be able to offset a decline in revenue from bottled water customers that switch to filtered water. In addition, consumers may choose to drink from municipal water sources instead of purchasing bottled water or using a filtration unit. 

Our OCS business is also subject to intense competition. Our coffee business consists of both large brewers and single-serve brewers, where increased competition has developed from food, beverage and office products distributors. Additionally, retail and internet availability of these products could negatively affect demand for the direct distribution sources we offer. 

&#160;

We seek to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by offering our customers high-quality products, category management strategies, packaging and marketing strategies, efficient distribution methods, and superior service. 

Government Regulation and Environmental Matters 

The production, distribution and sale in the United States of many of our products are subject to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Lanham Act, state consumer protection laws, federal, state and local workplace health and safety laws, various federal, state and local environmental protection laws and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Outside the United States, the production, distribution and sale of our many products and related operations are also subject to numerous similar and other statutes and regulations. 

A number of states have passed laws setting forth warning or labeling requirements relating to products made for human consumption. For example, the California law known as &#147;Proposition 65&#148; requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in California containing a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. This law, and others like it, exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. The detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label, although products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. From time to time over the past several years, certain of our customers have received notices alleging that the labeling requirements of the relevant state regulation would apply to products manufactured by us and sold by them. There can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by actions against our customers or us relating to Proposition 65 or similar &#147;failure to warn&#148; laws. 

We currently offer and use non-refillable recyclable containers in the United States and other countries around the world. We also offer and use refillable containers, which are also recyclable. Legal requirements apply in various jurisdictions in the United States and other countries requiring that deposits or certain taxes or fees be charged for the sale, marketing and use of certain non-refillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other types of beverage container-related deposit, recycling, tax and/or product stewardship statutes and regulations also apply in various jurisdictions. We anticipate that additional, similar legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future at local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere. 

We are a member of the International Bottled Water Association (&#147;IBWA&#148;) and the Water Quality Association. These associations often set higher water quality standards than those set by governmental agencies. Members must comply with these standards, which are enforced by the members themselves. The IBWA requires submission to annual plant inspections administered by an independent third-party inspection agency, such as the National Sanitation Foundation. These inspections audit quality and testing records, review all areas of plant operations and the bottling process, and check compliance with relevant national standards, good manufacturing practices, and any other regulations set by the IBWA. If we fail to meet the standards set by the IBWA and Water Quality Association, there could be an adverse impact on our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 

All of our beverage production facilities and other operations are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (&#147;EPA&#148;), which pertain to the use of water resources and the discharge of waste water. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties. Compliance with these provisions has not had, and we do not expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, net income or competitive position. However, as discussed below, changes in how the Ontario Ministry of the Environment enforces the Ontario Environmental Protection Act could result in our having to make material expenditures for environmental compliance. 

Subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable policies, we have coverage for product recalls and product liability claims that could result from the injury, illness or death of consumers using our products, contamination of our products, or damage to or mislabeling of our products. 

The Ontario Environmental Protection Act (&#147;OEPA&#148;) 

OEPA regulations provide that a minimum percentage of a bottler&#146;s soft drink sales within specified areas in Ontario must be made in refillable containers. The penalty for non-compliance by a corporation is a fine of C$250,000 per day beginning upon when the first offense occurs and continues until the first conviction, and then increasing to C$500,000 per day for each subsequent conviction. These fines may be increased to equal the amount of monetary benefit acquired by the offender as a result of the commission of the offense. 

&#160;

We, and we believe other industry participants, are currently not in compliance with the requirements of the OEPA. To comply with these requirements we, and we believe many other industry participants, would have to significantly increase sales in refillable containers to a minimum refillable sales ratio of 30%. We do not expect to be in compliance with these regulations in the foreseeable future. Ontario is not enforcing the OEPA at this time, despite the fact that it is still in effect and not amended, but if it chooses to enforce it in the future, we could incur fines for noncompliance and the possible prohibition of sales of soft drinks in non-refillable containers in Ontario. We estimate that approximately 2% of our sales in Canada would be affected by the possible limitation of sales of soft drinks in non-refillable containers in Ontario if the Ontario Ministry of the Environment initiated an action to enforce the provisions of the OEPA against us. Moreover, the Ontario Ministry of the Environment released a report in 1997 stating that these OEPA regulations are &#147;outdated and unworkable.&#148; However, despite the &#147;unworkable&#148; nature of the OEPA regulations, they have not yet been revoked. 

We believe that the magnitude of the potential fines that we could incur if the Ontario Ministry of the Environment chose to enforce these regulations is such that the costs to us of noncompliance could be, although are not contemplated to be, material. However, our management believes that probability of such enforcement is remote. 

Employees 

As of January 2, 2016, we had over 9,500 employees, of whom approximately 2,500 were in the Cott North America reporting segment, 5,320 were in the DSS reporting segment, 1,460 were in the Cott U.K. reporting segment, and 290 were in the All Other reporting segment. We have entered into collective bargaining agreements covering 1,071 employees in North America, the United Kingdom and Mexico that contain terms that we believe are typical in the beverage industry. As these agreements expire, we believe that they can be renegotiated on terms satisfactory to us. We consider our relations with employees to be generally good. 

Availability of Information and Other Matters 

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;) and Canadian securities regulatory authorities. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information in the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Information filed with the Canadian securities regulatory authorities is available at www.sedar.com. 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are also available free of charge on our website at www.cott.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report that we file with, or furnish to, the SEC or to Canadian securities regulatory authorities. 

We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as required by the SEC. See &#147;Management&#146;s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting&#148; in Item 9A. 

&#160;

