 Item 1. 

Our Business 

Transgenomic, Inc. ("we", "us", "our", the "Company" or "Transgenomic") is a biotechnology company advancing personalized medicine for the detection and treatment of cancer and inherited diseases through our proprietary molecular technologies and clinical and research services. A key goal is to bring our Multiplexed ICE COLD-PCR ("MX-ICP") product to the clinical market through strategic partnerships and licensing agreements, enabling the use of blood and other bodily fluids for more effective and patient-friendly diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of cancer. 

MX-ICP is technology proprietary to Transgenomic. It is a reagent that improves the ability to detect genetic mutations by 100 - 400 fold over existing technologies. This technology has been validated internally on all currently available sequencing platforms, including Sanger, Next Gen Sequencing and Digital PCR. By enhancing the level of detection of genetic mutations and suppressing the normal, or wild-type DNA, several benefits are provided. It is generally understood that most current technologies are unable to consistently identify mutations that occur in less than approximately 5% of a sample. However, many mutations found at much lower levels, even as low as 0.01%, are known to be clinically relevant and can have significant consequences to a patient: both in terms of how they will respond to a given drug or treatment and how a given tumor is likely to change over time. More importantly, in our view, is the ability to significantly improve the level of detection while using blood, saliva and even urine as a source for DNA, rather than depending on painful, expensive and potentially dangerous tumor biopsies. 

We believe that this is an important advancement in patient care with respect to cancer detection, treatment and monitoring and can result in significant cost savings for the healthcare system by replacing invasive procedures with the simple collection of blood or other bodily fluids. By broadening the types of samples that can be used for testing and allowing all sequencing platforms to provide improved identification of low level mutations, MX-ICP has the potential to make testing more readily available, more patient friendly, enable genetic monitoring of disease progression, effectively guide treatment protocols, and reduce the overall cost of diagnosis and monitoring while significantly improving patient outcomes. 

Historically, our operations were organized and reviewed by management along our major product lines and presented in two business segments: Laboratory Services and Genetic Assays and Platforms. Beginning with the quarter ended September 30, 2015, our operations are now organized as one business segment, our Laboratory Services segment, and during the fourth quarter of 2015, we began including a portion of our Laboratory Services segment as discontinued operations. 

Our laboratory in Omaha, Nebraska is focused on providing genetic analytical services related to oncology and pharmacogenomics research services supporting Phase II and Phase III clinical trials conducted by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our laboratory employs a variety of genomic testing service technologies, including our proprietary MX-ICP technology. ICE COLD-PCR is a proprietary ultra-high sensitivity platform technology with breakthrough potential to enable wide adoption of personalized, precision medicine in cancer and other diseases. It can be run in any laboratory that contains standard PCR systems. MX-ICP enables detection of multiple known and unknown mutations from virtually any sample type, including tissue biopsies, blood, urine, saliva, cell-free DNA ("cfDNA") and circulating tumor cells ("CTCs") at levels greater than 1,000-fold higher than standard DNA sequencing techniques. It is easy to implement and use within existing workflows. Our laboratory in Omaha is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment ("CLIA") as a high complexity laboratory and is accredited by the College of American Pathologists. 

Our consolidated balance sheets, statements of operations and statements of cash flows for all periods presented reflect our former Genetic Assays and Platforms activities and Patient Testing business as discontinued operations (See Note 3 - "Discontinued Operations"). 

Business Strategy 

Our primary objective is to commercialize MX-ICP for the clinical diagnostics market through strategic licensing agreements. MX-ICP facilitates the use of blood and other bodily fluids for the effective and efficient diagnosis and treatment of cancer. It does this by enhancing the level of detection of mutant DNA by 100 - 400 fold. In tumors, mutations can often be found occurring with a frequency of around 5%, which current technologies can readily identify. However, other mutations can be present at much lower frequencies. MX-ICP makes possible as low as 0.01% levels of detection of mutant DNA. We believe that MX-ICP can help dramatically improve the diagnosis and treatment/monitoring of cancer patients. Using MC-ICP-based tests, clinicians can rapidly, effectively and economically monitor a patient’s therapy and progress on an ongoing basis. We plan to commercialize this product directly, but also anticipate partnering with a significant number of life sciences companies and academic institutes to accelerate the adoption and use of the technology. We continue to collaborate with a number of major academics including the University of Pennsylvania and Melbourne University. 

Our next set of objectives focuses on strengthening our existing business opportunities around MX-ICP. We continue to provide products and services to biomedical researchers, physicians, medical institutions and diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies that are tied to identifying and understanding genetic mutations and variations and their roles in disease mainly focused on cancer. Our products and services help scientists and physicians understand and predict disease and drug response mainly focused on cancer. As medical practitioners learn to correlate specific mutations and patterns of mutation with specific cancer disease states, drug responses and patient outcomes, it becomes possible to optimize a treatment regimen to a specific patient. This is known as personalized or precision medicine. 

Our internal estimates for the size of the cancer diagnostics market, based on multiple industry sources, suggests a rapidly growing market with a potential annual value of $28 billion (Piper Jaffray Report 2015), built on tissue biopsies and accounting for growth due to the potential for liquid biopsies or increased testing to monitoring cancer patients. Growth in this market has been in part fueled by the rapid adoption of Next-Generation Sequencing ("NGS") and Digital PCR, along with an emphasis by the U.S. Food &amp; Drug Administration ("FDA") for better and more uniform compliance regarding Laboratory Designed Test assays and will be accelerated further by the adoption of liquid biopsies in association with the sequencing platforms. One of the main reasons for this is that there is still a need for more informative data to help guide treatment. We believe that this will only occur when there is a move to blood and liquid testing of cancer patients earlier and more regularly (monitoring) to ensure more accurate diagnoses and more targeted and effective treatments. Additionally the desire for less costly and easier sample collection will drive the adoption of blood and liquid testing. We believe that MX-ICP is at the forefront of technologies designed to accomplish this transition away from traditional tissue biopsies, analysis and monitoring and will help precision medicine to become a reality. 

Transgenomic does not intend to build the extensive infrastructure necessary to fully commercialize MX-ICP alone. While there are applications of the technology that we will sell directly, we anticipate that the majority of revenues over time will be generated through a combination of exclusive, non-exclusive or semi-exclusive licenses to partners and collaborators. Our goal is to establish the fastest time to market possible for our product and to leverage already existing infrastructure rather than depend on making significant capital expenditures or other investments of our own. Our potential partners generally fall into one of three categories: 

-  L aboratory instrumentation and reagents suppliers &#32;(such as: Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., Illumina, Inc., Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Qiagen N.V. and Affymetrix, Inc.). The usefulness of MX-ICP across all platforms and its ability to detect tumor mutations in a wide range of samples make such companies natural partners for Transgenomic. We believe that MX-ICP has the potential to greatly expand the market for cancer monitoring as a complement, not as a competitor, to existing products. 

-  Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology companies &#32;(such as: Amgen, Inc., Novartis AG, Clovis Oncology, Inc., AstraZeneca plc, GlaxoSmithKline plc and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company). For companies developing new cancer drugs, MX-ICP has the potential to reduce the risk of clinical trials, as well as support the development of companion diagnostics to match drugs with patients. 

-  Clinical Laboratories &#32;(such as: Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and the many CLIA-certified laboratories including major academic centers such as Dana Fabre Cancer Institute (DFCI) Mayo, Johns Hopkins University (JHU) and MD Anderson throughout the United States). MX-ICP would allow clinical laboratories (Molecular Diagnostics Labs) to effectively compete with more specialized providers and to become full service providers as personalized, precision medicine becomes more widely adopted and improves patient care and outcomes. 

The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products and capabilities. The combination of technological complexity and rapid change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the solutions that it desires to offer as part of its family of products and services. We work to broaden the range of products and services we deliver to customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments and alliances. We employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced products and services: 

-  Developing new technologies and products internally; and 

-  Entering into joint-development efforts with other companies and academics. 

Our strategy is to leverage the discoveries in our laboratory to create "kits" or assays or CLIA tests to distribute directly ourselves and via our strategic partnerships and licensing agreements. 

We will continue to develop new applications for, and enhancements of, MX-ICP and capitalize on our expertise and intellectual properties to develop unique new applications of the MX-ICP technology for potential partnerships. We will focus on growth in our core markets via direct sales and business development activities with industry leaders across the globe. 

Products 

MX-ICP is our proprietary technology product with industry transforming potential. It is exclusively licensed by Transgenomic from Dana-Faber Cancer Institute. MX-ICP is a unique amplification technology that suppresses wild-type (normal) DNA and thereby enables the selective amplification of all mutations (genetic alterations) present in that region of the genome. As a result of its ultra-high sensitivity (1,000 times more sensitive than standard DNA sequencing alone), it works on almost all sample types that contain DNA, including tissue, blood, urine and saliva or sputum; it can be used on all sequencing platforms; and it is easily implemented into standard laboratory processes without significant investment of time or resources. MX-ICP has applications in all therapeutic areas, but the first and major focus at this time is the estimated expanding $28 billion market for liquid biopsies and cancer testing. The Company also believes that the current market for clinical diagnostic (MDx) use of PCR, which is estimated to be in excess of $10 billion in 2015 based on external reports, will continue to grow and is a validation of the size of market for this type of technology and product. Importantly, MX-ICP is platform agnostic and can therefore be integrated and implemented into any clinical testing, basic research or biopharmaceutical laboratory. In addition, the MX-ICP product is a simple chemical reagent that is able to be mass-produced and supplied efficiently to any end user. 

Our highly specialized genetics analytical services and expertise are utilized in our CLIA-certified laboratory in Omaha, Nebraska. Our laboratory supports pharmaceutical companies in their clinical trials, primarily Phase II and Phase III trials, and has over 20 years of clinical trials development experience and its clients include many of the top 20 worldwide pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies. 

Our expanding oncology tests are focused heavily on genetic mutations commonly associated with the major cancer types - NSCLC (lung), CRC (colorectal), breast, melanoma and prostate. We primarily test for mutations in the KRAS, NRAS, BRAF and PIK3CA genes, all associated with the most common types of cancers. The presence or absence of these mutations increasingly influences oncologists’ treatment choices for their patients. We have been focused on testing for low level mutations in colorectal cancer tissue biopsies that are targets for new therapies, and we intend to continue this and improve on it as we incorporate our MX-ICP technology products into our oncology testing menu. We also offer tests for hereditary cancer-predisposing syndromes. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our strategy for commercializing MX-ICP is to focus on enabling strategic technology licensing agreements with established partners in the fields of: instrumentation and reagent suppliers, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, and clinical laboratories. 

The commercial focus is broken down into three categories: 

1. Services : performing services for pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies in order to enable them to submit their drug targets to the FDA for approval 

2. Products : this includes MX-ICP kits for research use and MX-ICP CLIA Testing for oncologists in the United States 

3. Licensing : strategic partnerships and likening agreements to grant companies, academics and clinical laboratories with various levels of access to MX-ICP 

We see over time that the majority of our revenues will come from the later "licensing" agreements and will be of a high margin, but in the near term (first two years) revenue is expected to be generated from all three commercial areas. We are focusing on these business to business activities and using our direct staff and external consultants with significant market and domain expertise to accelerate this strategy. 

Customers 

We expect to expand our customer base through licensing and partnership agreements for MX-ICP with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and clinical laboratories. 

Research and Development 

We continue to invest in research and development in order to remain competitive and to take advantage of new business opportunities as they arise. We maintain a program of research and development with respect to platform technologies, such as ICE COLD-PCR, instruments, test kits and services, engaging existing and new technologies to create scientific and medical applications that will add value to patient care as well as significant commercial value. Major areas of focus include the (i) development of ICE COLD-PCR applications for ultra-high sensitivity mutation detection in any liquid (including blood, sputum and urine) and tissue samples (fresh, frozen, FNA, FFPE, etc.); (ii) development of a new strategy for mutation detection and sequence confirmation using micro-capillary electrophoresis; (iii) use of commercially-available assays and the development of custom assays for detection of somatic mutations in cancer samples using NGS and digital PCR or droplet PCR; and (iv) development of biomarker assays for the marketplace. For the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , our research and development expenses related to continuing operations were $1.9 million &#32;and $2.2 million , respectively. 

Manufacturing 

Historically, we manufactured bioconsumable products including our test kits, separation columns, liquid reagents and enzymes. The major components of our WAVE Systems were manufactured for us by a third party. We integrated our hardware and software with these third party manufactured components. Our manufacturing facilities for WAVE Systems and bioconsumables were located in Omaha, Nebraska and San Jose, California. The historical costs of operating the manufacturing facilities are included in our results for discontinued operations. 

Intellectual Property 

To establish and protect our proprietary technologies and products, we rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, license agreements’ contractual confidentiality provisions and confidentiality agreements. Our ICE COLD-PCR platform technology is protected by in-licensed patents that expire in various periods through 2031. As part of the FAMILION acquisition in 2010, we acquired exclusive rights to the FAMILION family of genetic tests for inherited disease, including the patents protecting this technology. Our FAMILION patents and acquired technology are included as part of our discontinued operations. As we expand our product offerings, we also are extending our patent development efforts to protect such product 

offerings. Established competitors, as well as companies that purchase and enforce patents and other intellectual property, may already have patents covering similar products. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain patents covering our products, or that we will be able to obtain licenses from such companies on favorable terms or at all. However, while patents are an important element of our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent. 

We will continue to file patent applications, seek new licenses, take advantage of available copyright and trademark protections and implement appropriate trade secret protocols to protect our intellectual property. Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance that misappropriation of our products and proprietary technologies will not occur. 

Although we believe that our developed and licensed intellectual property rights do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Further, there can be no assurance that intellectual property protection will be available for our products in the U.S. or foreign countries. 

Like many companies in the biotechnology and other high-tech industries, third parties have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to business processes, technologies and related standards that are relevant to us and our customers. These assertions have increased over time as a result of the general increase in patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Third parties may also claim that their intellectual property rights are being infringed by our customers’ use of a business process method that utilizes products in conjunction with other products, which could result in indemnification claims against us by our customers. Any claim against us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and a distraction to management, result in costly litigation, cause product delivery delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or pay damages or amounts in settlement, prohibit us from selling certain products or require us to develop alternative non-infringing technology. We could also be required to defend or indemnify our customers against such claims. 

Government Regulation 

&#32; We are subject to a variety of federal, state and municipal environmental and safety laws based on our use of hazardous materials in both manufacturing and research and development operations. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, if we cause contamination to the environment, intentionally or unintentionally, we could be responsible for damages related to the clean-up of such contamination or individual injury caused by such contamination. We cannot predict how changes in laws and regulations will impact how we conduct our business operations in the future or whether the costs of compliance will increase in the future. 

Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries is not expected to be a significant factor in the manufacturing, labeling, distribution and marketing of our products and systems, especially when considering our partnership and licensing strategy. However, we continue to monitor and engage in dialog with the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Please see the section of this Annual Report entitled "Risk Factors" for other risks associated with regulatory requirements. 

Competition 

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technological advances. Many of our competitors possess greater resources than us and may be able to develop and offer a greater breadth of products and/or services, coupled with significant marketing and distribution capabilities. We compete principally on the basis of uniquely enabling scientific technical advantages in specific but significant market segments. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , we had employees in continuing operations focused in the following areas of operation: 

December 31, 

2014 

Manufacturing and Laboratory 

16 

Sales, Marketing and Administration 

14 

Research and Development 

5 

35 

All of our employees as of December 31, 2015 were full-time employees. 

Our employees were employed in the following geographical locations: 

December 31, 

2014 

United States 

34 

United Kingdom 

1 

35 

General Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware on March 6, 1997. Our principal office is located at 12325 Emmet Street, Omaha, Nebraska 68164 (telephone: 402-452-5400). This facility houses certain administrative staff and laboratories. Our New Haven, Connecticut facility houses certain administrative operations. 

Our Internet website is located at http://www.transgenomic.com. The information on our website is not a part of this Annual Report. We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our Internet website. 

The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet website is located at http://www.sec.gov. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Paul Kinnon. &#32;Mr. Kinnon, age 52, has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director since September 2013. On October 31, 2014, Mr. Kinnon was appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Kinnon has more than 20 years of global leadership experience in innovative life science and diagnostics companies. From January through August 2013, he provided consulting services to the life science sector as a Partner at Arch Global Research. During a portion of this time, Mr. Kinnon provided consulting services to us. From January 2007 to December 2012, Mr. Kinnon was President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of ZyGEM Corporation Limited, a biotechnology company, where he transformed the company from a regional enzyme provider into a leader in integrated microfluidic technologies for forensic and clinical diagnostic applications. From May 2006 to June 2007, Mr. Kinnon was Vice President &amp; General Manager Environmental Diagnostics (later expanded to Applied Markets) at Invitrogen Corporation (now Life Technologies), a high growth life sciences and diagnostics firm, and from October 2004 until April 2006, he was Vice President, Global Strategic Alliances at Invitrogen. Previously, Mr. Kinnon also held business, sales and marketing roles of increasing responsibility at Guava Technologies, Inc., Cellomics, Inc. and other life science companies. Mr. Kinnon earned his Bachelor of Sciences degree in Applied Chemistry at Coventry University in the United Kingdom and holds a Diploma of Marketing. A petition in bankruptcy was filed against ZyGEM Corporation Limited in April 2013. 

&#32; Leon F. Richards. &#32;Mr. Richards, age 59, was appointed our Chief Accounting Officer by our Board of Directors in October 2014. Mr. Richards is an experienced corporate finance executive and certified public accountant with more than 30 years of experience building and leading financial organizations. Mr. Richards has served as our Controller since November 2012. He most recently served as Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Baldwin Technology Company, Inc., a leading global supplier of process automation equipment for the printing and publishing industry, from May 2004 to September 2012. Mr. Richards earned his Bachelor of Business Administration and Accounting from Iona College. 

