 Item 1. Business 

Available Information 

This Report, along with our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge through our internet website ( www.patenergy.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on our website is not part of this Report or other filings that we make with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site ( www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

Overview 

We own and operate in the United States one of the largest fleets of land-based drilling rigs and a large fleet of pressure pumping equipment. We were formed in 1978 and reincorporated in 1993 as a Delaware corporation. Patterson Energy, Inc. and UTI Energy Corp. merged in 2001 to form Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. Our corporate headquarters are in Houston, Texas. 

Our contract drilling business operates in the continental United States and western Canada, and we are pursuing contract drilling opportunities outside of North America. As of December 31, 2015, we had a drilling fleet that consisted of 221 marketable land-based drilling rigs. A drilling rig includes the structure, power source and machinery necessary to cause a drill bit to penetrate the earth to a depth desired by the customer. A drilling rig is considered marketable at a point in time if it is operating or can be made ready to operate without significant capital expenditures. We also have a substantial inventory of drill pipe and drilling rig components that support our drilling operations. 

We provide pressure pumping services to oil and natural gas operators primarily in Texas and the Appalachian region. Pressure pumping services consist primarily of well stimulation services (such as hydraulic fracturing) and cementing services for completion of new wells and remedial work on existing wells. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 1.1 million hydraulic horsepower to provide these services. Our pressure pumping operations are supported by a fleet of other equipment, including blenders, tractors, manifold trailers and numerous trailers for transportation of materials to and from the worksite as well as bins for storage of materials at the worksite. 

We also own and invest in oil and natural gas assets as a non-operating working interest owner. Our oil and natural gas working interests are located primarily in Texas and New Mexico. 

Recent Developments

Oil prices have significantly declined since the second half of 2014. The closing price of oil, which was as high as $105.68 per barrel during the third quarter of 2014, reached a low price for 2015 of $34.55 in December 2015 and reached a twelve-year low of $26.68 in January 2016. As a result of the prolonged decline in oil prices, our industry continues to experience a severe decline in both contract drilling and pressure pumping activity levels. We do not expect this to change until commodity prices improve.

Low commodity prices are negatively impacting spending by exploration and production companies. The impact of these spending reductions is evidenced by published rig counts, which in the United States decreased more than 60% during 2015 and is now almost 70% lower than the peak in 2014. 

Our rig count has also significantly declined. As of December 31, 2015, we had 80 drilling rigs operating in the United States, which was a decrease of 63% from the recent peak of 214 rigs in October 2014. Our operating rig count has continued to decline in 2016. On average, we operated 78 rigs in the United States during January 2016. Term contracts provided some support of our operating rig count during 2015. Based on contracts currently in place, we expect an average of 59 rigs operating under term contracts during the first quarter and an average of 46 rigs operating under term contracts during 2016.

Our pressure pumping business is continuing to experience the effects of reduced spending by customers and downward pressure on pricing. Due to market conditions, as of December 31, 2015, we had stacked approximately 38% of our fracturing horsepower. With the weakness in commodity prices since the beginning of 2016, we have seen a significant decrease in the amount of available work, and the profitability of available work has continued to deteriorate. In response, since the beginning of 2016, we have stacked approximately 140,000 fracturing horsepower. In total, we now have stacked slightly more than half of our fleet of more than 1 million hydraulic fracturing horsepower. 

In anticipation of this downturn, we began reducing our cost structure in the fourth quarter of 2014. In 2015, we continued to reduce our cost structure and, to date, we have reduced our drilling headcount at a rate generally proportionate with the reduction in our rig count. In 2015, we significantly reduced our pressure pumping headcount and obtained lowe r prices on many products and services that we use. We also reduced our capital expenditures in 2015, and we expect our capital expenditures for 2016 to primarily consist of maintenance capital, inspections and potential upgrades, as we do not expect to b uild any new rigs or purchase any new fracturing horsepower in 2016. We plan to continue to adjust our cost structure in line with our level of operating activity. 

We expect that our term contract coverage in contract drilling and scalability with respect to labor and other operating costs in contract drilling and pressure pumping should position us to weather this downturn. In the event oil prices remain depressed for a sustained period, or decline further, we may experience further significant declines in both drilling activity and spot dayrate pricing and in pressure pumping activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Industry Segments 

Our revenues, operating profits and identifiable assets are primarily attributable to three industry segments: 

- 

contract drilling services, 

- 

pressure pumping services, and 

- 

oil and natural gas exploration and production. 

All of our industry segments had operating profits in 2013. In 2014, our contract drilling services and our pressure pumping services segments had operating profits and our oil and natural gas exploration and production segment had an operating loss. Our oil and natural gas assets constituted approximately 1% of our consolidated assets as of December 31, 2014. All of our industry segments had operating losses in 2015. 

See "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included as a part of Items 7 and 8, respectively, of this Report for financial information pertaining to these industry segments. 

Contract Drilling Operations 

General — We market our contract drilling services to major, independent and other oil and natural gas operators. As of December 31, 2015, we had 221 marketable land-based drilling rigs based in the following regions: 

- 

46 in west Texas and southeastern New Mexico, 

- 

17 in north central and east Texas and northern Louisiana 

- 

36 in the Rocky Mountain region (Colorado, Wyoming and North Dakota), 

- 

37 in south Texas, 

- 

29 in western Oklahoma, 

- 

45 in the Appalachian region (Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia), and 

- 

11 in western Canada. 

Our marketable drilling rigs have rated maximum depth capabilities ranging from approximately 10,000 feet to 25,000 feet. Of these drilling rigs, 202 are electric rigs and 19 are mechanical rigs. An electric rig differs from a mechanical rig in that the electric rig converts the power from its diesel engines (the sole energy source for a mechanical rig) into electricity to power the rig. We also have a substantial inventory of drill pipe and drilling rig components, which may be used in the activation of additional drilling rigs or as upgrades or replacement parts for marketable rigs. 

Drilling rigs are typically equipped with engines, drawworks, top drives, masts, pumps to circulate the drilling fluid, blowout preventers, drill pipe and other related equipment. Over time, components on a drilling rig are replaced or rebuilt. We spend significant funds each year as part of a program to modify, upgrade and maintain our drilling rigs to ensure that our drilling equipment is competitive. We have spent over $1.8 billion during the last three years on capital expenditures to (1) build new land drilling rigs and (2) modify, upgrade and extend the lives of components of our drilling fleet. During fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, we spent approximately $527 million, $772 million and $505 million, respectively, on these capital expenditures. 

Depth and complexity of the well and drill site conditions are the principal factors in determining the specifications of the rig selected for a particular job. 

Our contract drilling operations depend on the availability of drill pipe, drill bits, replacement parts and other related rig equipment, fuel and other materials and qualified personnel. Some of these have been in short supply from time to time. 

Drilling Contracts — Most of our drilling contracts are with established customers on a competitive bid or negotiated basis. Our bid for each job depends upon location, equipment to be used, estimated risks involved, estimated duration of the job, availability of drilling rigs and other factors particular to each proposed contract. Our drilling contracts are either on a well-to-well basis or a term basis. Well-to-well contracts are generally short-term in nature and cover the drilling of a single well or a series of wells. Term contracts are entered into for a specified period of time (frequently six months to three years) and provide for the use of the drilling rig to drill multiple wells. During 2015, our average number of days to drill a well (which includes moving to the drill site, rigging up and rigging down) was approximately 17 days. 

Our drilling contracts obligate us to provide and operate a drilling rig and to pay certain operating expenses, including wages of our drilling personnel and necessary maintenance expenses. Most drilling contracts are subject to termination by the customer on short notice and may or may not contain provisions for an early termination payment to us in the event that the contract is terminated by the customer. We believe that our drilling contracts generally provide for indemnification rights and obligations that are customary for the markets in which we conduct those operations. However, each drilling contract contains the actual terms setting forth our rights and obligations and those of the customer, any of which rights and obligations may deviate from what is customary due to particular industry conditions, customer requirements or other factors. 

Our drilling contracts provide for payment on a daywork basis. Under daywork contracts, we provide the drilling rig and crew to the customer. The customer provides the program for the drilling of the well. Our compensation is based on a contracted rate per day during the period the drilling rig is utilized. We often receive a lower rate when the drilling rig is moving or when drilling operations are interrupted or restricted by adverse weather conditions or other conditions beyond our control. Daywork contracts typically provide separately for mobilization of the drilling rig. All of the wells we drilled in 2015, 2014 and 2013 were under daywork contracts. 

From time to time more than five years ago, we contracted to drill some wells to a certain depth under specified conditions for a fixed price per foot (on a footage basis) or for a fixed fee (on a turnkey basis). We generally assume greater operational and economic risk drilling on a turnkey basis than on a footage basis and greater operational and economic risk drilling on a footage basis than on a daywork basis. 

Contract Drilling Activity — Information regarding our contract drilling activity for the last three years follows: 

Year Ended December 31,

2014

Average rigs operating per day(1)

211

Number of rigs operated during the year

231

Number of wells drilled during the year

2,448

3,740

3,378

Number of operating days

45,142

77,000

69,918

(1) 

A rig is considered to be operating if it is earning revenue pursuant to a contract on a given day. 

Drilling Rigs and Related Equipment — We have made significant upgrades during the last several years to our drilling fleet to match the needs of our customers. While conventional wells remain a source of oil and natural gas, our customers have expanded the development of shale and other unconventional wells to help supply the long-term demand for oil and natural gas in North America. 

To address our cust omers’ needs for drilling horizontal wells in shale and other unconventional resource plays, we have expanded our areas of operation and improved the capability of our drilling fleet. We have delivered new APEX &#174; rigs to the market and have made performanc e and safety improvements to existing high capacity rigs. APEX 1500 &#174; rigs are 1,500 horsepower electric rigs with advanced electronic drilling systems, 500 ton top drives, iron roughnecks, hydraulic catwalks, and other highly automated pipe handling equip ment. APEX 1000 &#174; rigs are 1,000 horsepower electric rigs with advanced technology equipment similar to the APEX 1500 &#174; rigs, but with a more compact design to fit on smaller locations. APEX WALKING &#174; rigs are designed to efficiently drill multiple wells fr om a single pad, by "walking" between the wellbores without requiring time to lower the mast and lay down the drill pipe. Many APEX 1500 &#174; and APEX 1000 &#174; rigs have also been equipped with walking systems as noted below. As of December 31, 2015, our drilli ng fleet was comprised of the following: 

Number of Rigs

Classification

United States

Canada

Total

Percent With Walking Systems

APEX 1500 rigs

1

62

%

APEX 1000 rigs

—

60

%

APEX WALKING rigs

—

100

%

Other electric rigs

6

12

%

Total electric rigs

7

61

%

Mechanical rigs

4

Total

11

Number of Rigs

Horsepower

United States

Canada

Total

2,000 to 2,500

—

1,500

1

1,000 to 1,400

5

750 to 950

5

Total

11

Average horsepower

1,386

1,068

1,370

Average depth rating

18,700

14,550

18,493

We perform repair and/or overhaul work to our drilling rig equipment at our yard facilities located in Texas, Oklahoma, Wyoming, Colorado, North Dakota, Pennsylvania and western Canada. 

Pressure Pumping Operations 

General — We provide pressure pumping services to oil and natural gas operators primarily in Texas (Southwest Region) and the Appalachian region (Northeast Region). Pressure pumping services consist of well stimulation services (such as hydraulic fracturing) and cementing services for the completion of new wells and remedial work on existing wells. Wells drilled in shale formations and other unconventional plays require well stimulation through hydraulic fracturing to allow the flow of oil and natural gas. This is accomplished by pumping fluids under pressure into the well bore to fracture the formation. Many wells in conventional plays also receive well stimulation services. The cementing process inserts material between the wall of the well bore and the casing to support and stabilize the casing. 

Pressure Pumping Contracts — Our pressure pumping operations are conducted pursuant to a work order for a specific job or pursuant to a term contract. The term contracts are generally entered into for a specified period of time and may include minimum revenue, usage or stage requirements. We are compensated based on a combination of charges for equipment, personnel, materials, mobilization and other items. We believe that our pressure pumping contracts generally provide for indemnification rights and obligations that are customary for the markets in which we conduct those operations. However, each pressure pumping contract contains the actual terms setting forth our rights and obligations and those of the customer, any of which rights and obligations may deviate from what is customary due to particular industry conditions, customer requirements or other factors. 

Equipment — We have pressure pumping equipment used in providing hydraulic and nitrogen fracturing se rvices as well as nitrogen, cementing and acid pumping services, wi th a total of approximately 1.1 million hydraulic horsepower as of December 31, 2015. Pressure pumping equipment at December 31, 2015 included: 

Hydraulic

Other

Fracturing

Pumping

Equipment

Equipment

Total

Southwest Region:

Number of units

32

Approximate hydraulic horsepower

663,800

32,165

695,965

Northeast Region:

Number of units

94

Approximate hydraulic horsepower

353,800

55,400

409,200

Combined:

Number of units

126

Approximate hydraulic horsepower

1,017,600

87,565

1,105,165

Our pressure pumping operations are supported by a fleet of other equipment including blenders, tractors, manifold trailers and numerous trailers for transportation of materials to and from the worksite as well as bins for storage of materials at the worksite. 

Materials — Our pressure pumping operations require the use of acids, chemicals, proppants, fluid supplies and other materials, any of which can be in short supply, including severe shortages, from time to time. We purchase these materials from various suppliers. These purchases are made in the spot market or pursuant to other arrangements that do not cover all of our required supply and that sometimes require us to purchase the supply or pay liquidated damages if we do not purchase the material. Given the limited number of suppliers of certain of our materials, we may not always be able to make alternative arrangements if we are unable to reach an agreement with a supplier for delivery of any particular material or should one of our suppliers fail to timely deliver our materials. 

Oil and Natural Gas Interests 

We own and invest in oil and natural gas assets as a non-operating working interest owner. Our oil and natural gas working interests are located primarily in producing regions of Texas and New Mexico. Our oil and natural gas assets constituted less than 1% of our consolidated assets as of December 31, 2015. 

Customers 

Our customer base includes major, independent and other oil and natural gas operators. With respect to our consolidated operating revenues in 2015, we received approximately 49% from our ten largest customers and approximately 33% from our five largest customers. During 2015, one customer accounted for approximately $244 million, or approximately 13%, of our consolidated operating revenues. These revenues were earned in both our contract drilling and pressure pumping businesses. The loss of, or reduction in business from, one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.

Competition 

The contract drilling and pressure pumping businesses are highly competitive. Historically, available equipment used in these businesses has frequently exceeded demand, particularly in an industry downturn, such as the current market environment. The price for our services is a key competitive factor, in part because equipment used in our businesses can be moved from one area to another in response to market conditions. In addition to price, we believe availability, condition and technical specifications of equipment, quality of personnel, service quality and safety record are key factors in determining which contractor is awarded a job. We expect that the market for land drilling and pressure pumping services will continue to be highly competitive. 

Government and Environmental Regulation 

All of our operations and facilities are subject to numerous federal, state, foreign, regional and local laws, rules and regulations related to various aspects of our business, including: 

- 

drilling of oil and natural gas wells, 

- 

hydraulic fracturing, cementing, nitrogen and acidizing and related well servicing activities, 

- 

containment and disposal of hazardous materials, oilfield waste, other waste materials and acids, 

- 

use of underground storage tanks and injection wells, and 

- 

our employees. 

To date, applicable environmental laws and regulations in the places in which we operate have not required the expenditure of significant resources outside the ordinary course of business. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities or extraordinary expenditures to comply with environmental rules and regulations in the foreseeable future. However, compliance costs under existing laws or under any new requirements could become material, and we could incur liability in any instance of noncompliance. 

Our business is generally affected by political developments and by federal, state, foreign, regional and local laws, rules and regulations that relate to the oil and natural gas industry. The adoption of laws, rules and regulations affecting the oil and natural gas industry for economic, environmental and other policy reasons could increase costs relating to drilling, completion and production, and otherwise have an adverse effect on our operations. Federal, state, foreign, regional and local environmental laws, rules and regulations currently apply to our operations and may become more stringent in the future. Any limitation, suspension or moratorium of the services we or others provide, whether or not short-term in nature, by a federal, state, foreign, regional or local governmental authority, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 

We believe we use operating and disposal practices that are standard in the industry. However, hydrocarbons and other materials may have been disposed of, or released in or under properties currently or formerly owned or operated by us or our predecessors, which may have resulted, or may result, in soil and groundwater contamination in certain locations. Any contamination found on, under or originating from the properties may be subject to remediation requirements under federal, state, foreign, regional and local laws, rules and regulations. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties over whom we have no control of their treatment of hydrocarbon and other materials or the manner in which they may have disposed of or released such materials. We could be required to remove or remediate wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators. In addition, it is possible we could be held responsible for oil and natural gas properties in which we own an interest but are not the operator. 

Some of the environmental laws and regulations that are applicable to our business operations are discussed in the following paragraphs, but the discussion does not cover all environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations. 

In the United States, the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, commonly known as CERCLA, and comparable state statutes impose strict liability on: 

- 

owners and operators of sites, including prior owners and operators who are no longer active at a site; and 

- 

persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of "hazardous substances" found at sites. 

The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"), as amended, and comparable state statutes and implementing regulations govern the disposal of "hazardous wastes." Although CERCLA currently excludes petroleum from the definition of "hazardous substances," and RCRA also excludes certain classes of exploration and production wastes from regulation, such exemptions by Congress under both CERCLA and RCRA may be deleted, limited, or modified in the future. If such changes are made to CERCLA and/or RCRA, we could be required to remove and remediate previously disposed of materials (including materials disposed of or released by prior owners or operators) from properties (including ground water contaminated with hydrocarbons) and to perform removal or remedial actions to prevent future contamination. 

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, each as amended, and implementing regulations govern: 

- 

the prevention of discharges, including oil and produced water spills, into jurisdictional waters; and 

- 

liability for drainage into such waters. 

The Oil Pollution Act imposes strict liability for a comprehensive and expansive list of damages from an oil spill into jurisdictional waters from facilities. Liability may be imposed for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages. Penalties may also be imposed for violation of federal safety, construction and operating regulations, and for failure to report a spill or to cooperate fully in a clean-up. 

The Oil Pollution Act also expands the authority and capability of the federal government to direct and manage oil spill clean-up and operations, and requires operators to prepare oil spill response plans in cases where it can reasonably be expected that substantial harm will be done to the environment by discharges on or into navigable waters. Failure to comply with ongoing requirements or inadequate cooperation during a spill event may subject a responsible party, such as us, to civil or criminal actions. Although the 

liability for owners and operators is the same under the Fe deral Water Pollution Act, the damages recoverable under the Oil Pollution Act are potentially much greater and can include natural resource damages . 

The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA") promulgates and enforces laws and regulations governing the protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSHA hazard communication standard, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statutes require that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local governments and citizens. Also, OSHA has established a variety of standards related to workplace exposure to hazardous substances and employee health and safety. 

Our activities include the performance of hydraulic fracturing services to enhance the production of oil and natural gas from formations with low permeability, such as shale and other unconventional formations. Due to concerns raised relating to potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing, including on groundwater quality and seismic activity, legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal level and in some state and local jurisdictions have been initiated to render permitting and compliance requirements more stringent for hydraulic fracturing or prohibit the activity altogether. Such efforts could have an adverse effect on oil and natural gas production activities, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the hydraulic fracturing services that we render for our exploration and production customers. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors — Potential Legislation and Regulation Covering Hydraulic Fracturing or Other Aspects of the Oil and Gas Industry Could Increase Our Costs and Limit or Delay Our Operations." 

In Canada, a variety of federal, provincial and municipal laws, rules and regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances to the environment. Other jurisdictions where we may conduct operations have similar environmental and regulatory regimes with which we would be required to comply. These laws, rules and regulations also require that facility sites and other properties associated with our operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. In addition, new projects or changes to existing projects may require the submission and approval of environmental assessments or permit applications. These laws, rules and regulations are subject to frequent change, and the clear trend is to place increasingly stringent limitations on activities that may affect the environment. 

Our operations are also subject to federal, state, foreign, regional and local laws, rules and regulations for the control of air emissions, including those associated with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. We and our customers may be required to make capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. For more information, please refer to our discussion under "Item 1A. Risk Factors — Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Laws and Regulations, Including Violations Thereof, Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results." 

We are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions and climate change issues. We are also aware of legislation proposed by U.S. lawmakers and the Canadian legislature to reduce GHG emissions, as well as GHG emissions regulations enacted by the EPA and the Canadian provinces of Alberta and British Columbia. We will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation or regulations in the areas where we operate to determine the impact of GHG emissions and climate change on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. Any direct and indirect costs of meeting these requirements may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors — Legislation and Regulation of Greenhouse Gases Could Adversely Affect Our Business." 

Risks and Insurance 

Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the contract drilling and pressure pumping businesses, including inclement weather, blowouts, well fires, loss of well control, pollution, exposure and reservoir damage. These hazards could cause personal injury or death, work stoppage, and serious damage to equipment and other property, as well as significant environmental and reservoir damages. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of oil and natural gas production, pollution and other environmental damages. 

We have indemnification agreements with many of our customers, and we also maintain liability and other forms of insurance. In general, our drilling and pressure pumping contracts typically contain provisions requiring our customers to indemnify us for, among other things, reservoir and certain pollution damage. Our right to indemnification may, however, be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts or omissions by us, our subcontractors and/or suppliers. Our customers and other third parties may dispute, or be unable to meet, their indemnification obligations to us due to financial, legal or other reasons. Accordingly, we may be unable to transfer these risks to our customers and other third parties by contract or indemnification agreements. Incurring a liability for which we are not fully indemnified or insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.

We maintain insurance coverage of types and amounts that we believe to be customary in the industry, but we are no t fully insured against all risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs. The insurance coverage that we maintain includes insurance for fire, windstorm and other risks of physical loss to our drilling rigs , pressu re pumping equipment and certain other assets, employer’s liability, automobile liability, commercial general liability, workers’ compensation and insurance for other specific risks. We cannot assure, however, that any insurance obtained by us will be ade quate to cover any losses or liabilities, or that this insurance will continue to be available or available on terms that are acceptable to us. While we carry insurance to cover physical damage to, or loss of, a substantial portion of our drilling rigs an d pressure pumping equipment and certain other assets, such insurance does not cover the full replacement cost of such drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment or other assets. We have also elected in some cases to accept a greater amount of risk through increased deductibles on certain insurance policies. For example, we generally maintain a $1.5 million per occurrence deductible on our workers’ compensation insurance coverage, a $1.0 million per occurrence deductible on our equipment insurance coverage , a $2.0 million per occurrence self-insured retention on our general liability coverage and a $2.0 million per occurrence deductible on our automobile liability insurance coverage. We self-insure a number of other risks, including loss of earnings and bu siness interruption, and we do not carry a significant amount of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage. 

Our insurance will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our operations. Our coverage includes aggregate policy limits and exclusions. As a result, we retain the risk for any loss in excess of these limits or that is otherwise excluded from our coverage. There can be no assurance that insurance will be available to cover any or all of our operational risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in the future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive, or that our coverage will cover a specific loss. Further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from insurers or such insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. Incurring a liability for which we are not fully insured or indemnified could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 

If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance or an enforceable and recoverable indemnity from a third party, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our Operations Are Subject to a Number of Operational Risks, Including Environmental and Weather Risks, Which Could Expose Us to Significant Losses and Damage Claims. We Are Not Fully Insured Against All of These Risks and Our Contractual Indemnity Provisions May Not Fully Protect Us." 

Employees 

We had approximately 3,400 full-time employees as of February 4, 2016. The number of employees fluctuates depending on the current and expected demand for our services. We consider our employee relations to be satisfactory. None of our employees are represented by a union. 

Seasonality 

Seasonality has not significantly affected our overall operations. However, our drilling operations in Canada are subject to slow periods of activity during the annual spring thaw. Additionally, toward the end of some years, we experience slower activity in our pressure pumping operations in connection with the holidays and as customers’ capital expenditure budgets are depleted. Occasionally, our operations have been negatively impacted by severe weather conditions. 

Raw Materials and Subcontractors 

We use many suppliers of raw materials and services. Although these materials and services have historically been available, there is no assurance that such materials and services will continue to be available on favorable terms or at all. We also utilize numerous independent subcontractors from various trades. 

