 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Completion of Merger 

On June 15, 2015, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, by and among our Company (previously known as Ruthigen, Inc.), Merger Sub, and Pulmatrix Operating, Merger Sub was merged with and into Pulmatrix Operating, with Pulmatrix Operating continuing after the merger as the surviving entity and our wholly owned subsidiary. At the Effective Time of the Merger, without any action on the part of any stockholder, each issued and outstanding share of Pulmatrix Operating Common Stock was converted into the right to receive 0.148187124066461 pre-reverse stock split shares of Company Common Stock. Following the Merger, former Pulmatrix Inc. equity holders owned approximately 81.7% of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock, and former Ruthigen, Inc. equity holders, including those who purchased shares of Company Common Stock in a private placement that closed prior to the Merger, owned approximately 18.3% of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock, in each case excluding shares of Company Common Stock held in escrow to secure indemnification obligations under the Merger Agreement. 

Overview 

We are a clinical stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery and development of novel inhaled therapeutic products intended to prevent and treat respiratory diseases and infections with significant unmet medical needs. 

We design and develop inhaled therapeutic products based on its proprietary dry powder delivery technology, iSPERSE (inhaled Small Particles Easily Respirable and Emitted), which enables delivery of small or large molecule drugs to the lungs by inhalation for local or systemic applications. The iSPERSE powders are engineered to be small, dense particles with highly efficient dispersibility and delivery to airways. iSPERSE powders can be used with an array of dry powder inhaler technologies and can be formulated with a broad range of drug substances including small molecules and biologics. The iSPERSE dry powder technology offers enhanced drug loading and delivery efficiency that outperforms traditional lactose-blend inhaled dry powder therapies. Advantages of using the iSPERSE technology include reduced total inhaled powder mass, enhanced dosing efficiency, reduced cost of goods and improved safety and tolerability profiles. We are developing iSPERSE-based therapeutic candidates targeted at the prevention and treatment of a range of respiratory diseases, including cystic fibrosis (&#147;CF&#148;), idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (&#147;IPF&#148;) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (&#147;COPD&#148;). 

Corporate History 

Ruthigen was incorporated in 2013 as a Nevada corporation and converted to a Delaware corporation in September 2013. Ruthigen operated as a wholly owned subsidiary of Oculus Innovative Sciences, Inc. (&#147;Oculus&#148;) until the completion of Ruthigen&#146;s initial public offering in March 2014. Prior to the Merger, Ruthigen was primarily engaged in the development of pharmaceutical-grade hypochlorous acid based therapeutics designed to prevent and treat infection in invasive applications. 

We completed the Merger with Pulmatrix Operating on June 15, 2015, and in connection with the Merger, changed our name to &#147;Pulmatrix, Inc.&#148; and relocated our corporate headquarters to Lexington, Massachusetts. Following the Merger, we began focusing our resources on the development of products within the scope of 

&#160;

Pulmatrix Operating&#146;s former business plan, which was principally based on the development of novel inhaled therapeutic products intended to prevent and treat respiratory diseases and infections. Pulmatrix was founded by David A. Edwards, Ph.D., professor of Biomedical Engineering at Harvard University, Mark Gabrielson, owner and general partner of p-Value Capital, Alexander Klibanov, Ph.D., professor of Chemistry and Bioengineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Robert Langer, Ph.D., professor of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

Business Strategy 

Our goal is to utilize our proprietary iSPERSE technology to develop breakthrough therapeutic products that are safe, convenient and more efficient than the existing therapeutic products for the treatment of respiratory diseases. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Focus on development of inhaled anti-infective therapies to treat and prevent pulmonary infections in CF patients and other rare/orphan indications . We intend to direct our resources to, and focus on advancing the research and development of, PUR1900, an inhaled anti-fungal therapy for respiratory infections in CF patients and compromised patient populations. We expect to initiate Phase I/Ib clinical trials focused on therapy in CF patients in 2016. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Form strategic alliances to advance clinical trials for our therapeutic candidates for COPD . We have formed a strategic collaboration with Mylan N.V. (&#147;Mylan&#148;) to advance the clinical development of PUR0200, our lead COPD bronchodilator candidate, in Europe for pharmacokinetics equivalence regulatory pathway and intend to form additional strategic collaborations with third parties with respect to the clinical development of PUR0200 in the United States to support the FDA&#146;s 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway. We initiated a pilot bioequivalence study of PUR0200 with Mylan in Europe in January 2016. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Capitalize on our proprietary iSPERSE technology and our expertise in inhaled therapeutics and particle engineering to identify new product candidates for prevention and treatment of respiratory diseases with significant unmet medical needs . To add additional inhaled therapeutics to its discovery pipeline and facilitate additional discovery collaborations, we are leveraging our iSPERSE technology and our management&#146;s expertise in inhaled therapeutics and particle engineering to identify potential product candidates that are potentially safer and more effective than the current standard of care for prevention and treatment of respiratory diseases with significant unmet medical needs. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Invest in protecting and expanding our intellectual property portfolio and file for additional patents to strengthen our intellectual property rights . Pulmatrix owns 43 granted or allowed patents related to the iSPERSE technology as of December 31, 2015. Eight separate patents have been granted or allowed in the United States and 35 have been granted or allowed in Europe, Japan or other jurisdictions. 14 separate patent applications (including provisional applications) are pending in the United States, and 56 separate patent applications are pending under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (the &#147;PCT&#148;) or in Europe, Japan or other jurisdictions. We intend to aggressively continue patenting claims covering aspects of iSPERSE technology, expand our patent portfolio, and actively pursue any infringement covered by any of Pulmatrix&#146;s patents. We believe that our patents, and patent applications once allowed, are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and maximizing our return on research and development investments, as well as providing expansion of intellectual property protection for partner molecules in development partnerships. iSPERSE Technology 

We use simple, safe excipients, including proprietary cationic salt formulations, to create a robust and flexible dry powder platform technology that can accommodate a wide range of drug loads in highly dispersible particles. Our initial delivery platform emerged from development of iCALM (inhaled Cationic Airway Lining Modulators), a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory therapy, which showed in preclinical and early clinical studies that specific ratios of cations driven mainly by calcium salts reduced eosinophilic and neutrophilic inflammatory 

&#160;

responses to stimuli by downregulating the pro-inflammatory chemokine/cytokine pathways of respiratory tract epithelium. In 2009, we developed dry powder iCALM formulations for handheld dry powder inhalers with what we believe are several commercial advantages over nebulized liquid formulations, including ease of use, speed of dosing, improved portability and enhanced intellectual property protection. The high degree of aerosol efficiency and the density profile of our dry powder iCALM formulations provided the foundation for our development of iSPERSE in 2012, using other monovalent and divalent salts. 

iSPERSE particles are engineered with a small, dense and dispersible profile to exceed the performance of traditional dry powder particles with the dispersibility advantages of porous engineered particles, which results in superior drug delivery compared to traditional oral and injectable forms of treatment for certain respiratory diseases. Unlike lactose-blended carrier formulations or low-density particles which disperse poorly, we believe that the iSPERSE technology platform offers several potential benefits, achieved through the following technological innovations: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Flexible drug loading for delivery of a single microgram to tens of milligrams per dose . iSPERSE particles can be engineered to include significantly less than one percent (1%) to greater than eighty percent (80%) active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), which allows flexibility for dosing low potency and high drug load therapeutics. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Reproducible and one-step manufacturing . iSPERSE powders are manufactured by a simple and reproducible one-step spray drying process with high and consistent yields. Formulations can be created independent of API physical chemistry in either crystalline or amorphous excipient matrices, as opposed to conventional dry power technologies that require the API to be in crystalline form and suitable for micronization. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Superior flow rate independent lung delivery without carriers . The iSPERSE technology enables pulmonary delivery independent of lactose or other carriers, which results in significantly greater lung dose at a matched nominal dose of conventional lactose-based formulations. iSPERSE formulations are dispersible across a range of flow rates with consistent emitted dose and particle size. Performance across flow rates provides reliable dose delivery across patient populations and reduces patient-to-patient variability. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Delivery of macromolecules and biologics . iSPERSE powders can be used with an array of dry powder inhaler technologies and can be formulated with a broad range of therapeutic compounds ranging from small molecules to proteins for both local and systemic drug delivery applications. To the best of our knowledge, conventional dry powder technologies cannot be stably formulated with macromolecules and biologics. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Homogenous combinations of multiple drugs . iSPERSE creates homogenous particles including excipients and API, which allow consistent delivery of multiple APIs in a product. We have successfully formulated iSPERSE-based products with dual and triple API combinations. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Strong safety profile . iSPERSE products currently and planned to be in clinical stage are supported by robust preclinical safety profiles. iSPERSE excipients include those with inhalation precedent and that are generally regarded as safe (GRAS) by other routes of administration. Therapeutic Candidates 

Cystic Fibrosis 

We are focusing on developing iSPERSE-based inhaled formulations of anti-infective drugs, initially for treatments of infections among patients with CF and other respiratory conditions. 

CF is the most common genetic disease in Caucasian populations characterized by thick, sticky mucus that accumulates most critically in the lungs. According to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, CF affects approximately 30,000 children and adults in the United States and approximately 70,000 children and adults worldwide. The 

&#160;

accumulation of mucus with abnormally high viscosity obstructs airways, leads to infection and then inflammation, which further exacerbates obstruction of the airways and results in progressive lung damage and diminished pulmonary function. According to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, in 2010 the median life expectancy for those with CF in the United States was only 38.3 years. The most common causes of death in CF patients are related to CF lung deterioration, believed to be caused predominantly by chronic infection. 

Pulmonary infections are a significant source of morbidity and mortality across multiple respiratory diseases including CF. While pulmonary infections can be caused by a number of pathogens, approved inhaled therapeutics and those in development, to the best of our knowledge, target only a limited number of pathogens and infections, and the majority of these inhaled therapeutics are intended to target a single pathogen, Pseudomonas aeruginosa , which is the most prevalent pathogen found in the lungs of individuals with CF. Approved inhaled therapies do not exist for a number of other clinically significant pathogens that exacerbate infections in CF patients. 

The inhalation administration of a drug affords direct delivery of the drug to the infected parts of the lung, maximizing the dose to the affected sites and minimizing systemic exposure to the rest of the body where it could cause significant side effects. Therefore, treatment of lung infections by direct administration of anti-infective products to the lung may improve both the safety and efficacy of treatment compared to systemic administration by other routes, as well as improving patient convenience as compared to oral and injectable forms of the treatment. We believe that local lung delivery by inhalation in our iSPERSE formulation could provide convenient, effective and safe management of the debilitating and often life-threatening lung infections that are not currently addressed by inhaled therapies. 

PUR1900 is our inhaled formulation of itraconazole, an anti-fungal drug commercially available as an oral drug that we are developing to treat and prevent pulmonary fungal infections. Development of PUR1900 is initially focused on treatment of Aspergillus spp., a common fungal infection in patients with CF. Through the direct delivery of itraconazole to the lungs, PUR1900 achieves high local drug concentrations and overcomes several limitations of traditional oral anti-fungal therapies including poor oral bioavailabiliy and lung penetration, drug-drug interactions and gastrointestinal side effects. We expect to begin clinical testing of PUR1900 in health normal volunteers and CF patients in the second half of 2016. 

Competition and Market Opportunities 

There are a number of pathogens that chronically infect CF patients and are associated with reduced lung function or exacerbations other than Pseudomonas aeruginosa , for which, to the best of our knowledge, few or no drugs in the form of inhalation dry powder have been approved for marketing. The currently available primary anti-infective therapies against pathogens other than Pseudomonas aeruginosa are mostly in injectable or oral forms. Inhalation delivery of drugs directly to the respiratory tract typically results in much higher concentrations in the infected organ, even with relatively small doses, than the concentrations of the drug that could be achieved with safe, approved doses delivered via injection or by oral administration. Furthermore, administration by inhalation may also significantly reduce the exposure of the drugs in the rest of the body, which is beneficial in reducing systemic side effects and the risk of potentially damaging drug-drug interactions. We believe that inhaled therapies could offer improved efficacy and reduced side effects and could lead to improved patient efficacy and use profile. 

Current treatments of pulmonary fungal infections highlight the limitations of oral or intravenous anti-infective treatments for lung infections. Itraconazole is the most commonly prescribed therapy for treating Aspergillus spp. infections in patients with CF. Itraconazole is available commercially as Sporanox (Janssen Pharmaceutica) in both a capsule and oral solution form. Itraconazole is metabolized in the liver by CYP3A4 and is contraindicated for a large number of drugs due to the potential for severe drug-drug interactions. Delivery of itraconazole to lungs is expected to achieve high local lung concentrations while achieving systemic exposure that is significantly lower than that of oral dosing. 

&#160;

There is precedent for dry powder inhalation therapy addressing specific pulmonary infections in CF patients which demonstrates both the utility and market opportunity. Novartis currently markets TOBI PodHaler for treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in the United States, and Forest Laboratories U.K. Limited (a subsidiary of Actavis PLC) markets inhaled colistin, Colobreathe, for the same infection in Europe. Savara is developing AeroVanc, an inhaled dry powder version of vancomycin, intended for treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus lung infection in patients with CF, which, to the best of our knowledge, has completed Phase II clinical trials. Bayer AG has dry powder ciprofloxacin and amikacin in development for pulmonary infections. 

There are additional nebulized liquid anti-infective products marketed or in development that further supports the market opportunity. Cayston, marketed by Gilead Sciences, Inc., is a nebulized formulation of aztreonam for treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections in patients with CF. Insmed Incorporated is developing a nebulized amikacin antibiotic treatment for Pseudomonas aeruginosa and non-tuberculous mycobacterial infections, and Cardeas Pharma Corporation is in Phase II development of a dual antibiotic (amikacin/tobramycin) for lung infections in mechanically ventilated patients. CURx Pharmaceuticals is developing an inhaled antibiotic consisting of fosfomycin and tobramycin for treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in CF patients entering Phase III clinical trials. 

CF patients are affected by both chronic Aspergillus spp . infections and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (&#147;ABPA&#148;), which together affect nearly 50% of CF patients. New methods to detect Aspergillus spp . infection in sputum have improved the sensitivity of diagnosis and clinical appreciation for these infections. In addition to CF patients, pulmonary Aspergillus spp . infections affect approximately 14 million patients worldwide according to the Global Action Fund for Fungal Infections ( Improving Outcomes for Patients with Fungal Infections across the World: A Road Map for the Next Decade ). The majority of these cases occur in asthmatics with allergic disease, but also include invasive Aspergillus spp . infections that are associated with a high rate of mortality in immunocompromised patients. We believe that PUR1900 has the potential to address up to 5 million patients when all indications are considered. In addition, we believe that PUR1900 compares favorably to the products discussed above and will generate value based on treating and preventing pulmonary fungal infections in multiple patient populations. 

Clinical Development 

PUR1900 is our lead iSPERSE anti-infective development program and we expect to begin Phase I/Ib clinical studies of PUR1900 in the second half of 2016. 

COPD 

We are developing an iSPERSE-based inhaled bronchodilator, PUR0200, intended to treat COPD via a strategic collaboration with Mylan. COPD is a group of progressive respiratory illnesses marked by inflammation and destruction of airways and lungs, typically brought about by longstanding smoking. Persons affected by COPD have prominent symptoms of cough, phlegm, shortness of breath and exercise limitation. Pulmonary exacerbations caused by COPD (worsening of respiratory symptoms) are a major contributor to health care costs and can lead to serious consequences such as hospitalization and death. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, COPD was the third leading cause of death in the United States, and the fourth leading cause of death in Europe and the rest of the world in 2011. 

PUR0200 is a once-daily reformulation of an existing long-acting antimuscarinic agent (&#147;LAMA&#148;), which blocks the effects of acetylcholine on muscarinic receptors to reverse airway obstruction, delivered by inhalation using the iSPERSE dry powder delivery platform. 

Competition and Market Opportunities 

The global market for COPD therapeutics was $11.3 billion in 2013 according to GBI Research ( Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Market to 2019 ). With a high number of new and more efficient and 

&#160;

convenient drugs crowding the market, it is expected that this market will grow at a cumulative annual growth rate, or CAGR, of four percent (4%) to reach close to $15.4 billion by 2020, according to a 2015 report by EvaluatePharma, a leading market intelligence and information resource. According to the same report, the global market for LAMAs in 2013 was estimated to be $5.0 billion, of which Spiriva (tiotropium bromide) by Boehringer Ingelheim was the largest seller generating $4.7 billion worldwide with no generic competition. Despite the arrival of new combination therapeutics. EvaluatePharma predicts that, LAMAs are expected to remain the first line of therapy among COPD patients, with annual sales projected to exceed $5.2 billion worldwide in 2016. Tiotropium bromide is expected to retain the majority of share of the LAMA market. 

PUR0200 is engineered without lactose blending using the iSPERSE dry powder delivery platform. Pulmatrix expects that PUR0200 will deliver comparable pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles to the reference product, at significantly lower exposure doses to patients. Other potential advantages of PUR0200 include improved patient use profile and reduced cost of goods due to reduced nominal dose of the API, and the availability of the abbreviated regulatory pathway (&#147;bioequivalence&#148;) in Europe and the 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway in the United States. 

As described below, we are currently conducting a clinical trial in Europe to study the pharmacokinetic profile of PUR0200 compared to the reference product. If PUR0200 is determined to have a similar pharmacokinetic profile to the reference product, we expect that we would be able to take advantage of the bioequivalence regulatory pathway in Europe and 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway in the United States, which we believe would result in significant cost and time savings compared to traditional regulatory pathways. For additional information about the 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, see &#147;&#151; Government Regulation &#151; Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications &#148; below. 

Clinical Development 

In December 2013, we completed a two-part Phase Ib clinical trial in the United Kingdom involving moderate to severe COPD patients to assess the safety and tolerability of PUR0200 along with the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics in a single dose, dose escalation trial. In Part 1 of the study, 2 out of 26 subjects were randomly selected to receive PUR0200 at different dose levels with the remainder of the patients receiving placebos. 

The goal of Part 1 was to evaluate safety and tolerability of PUR0200. Part 2 of the study tested the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of PUR0200 after single doses compared to the reference product. Part 2 of the study was a randomized, placebo-controlled 5 period cross-over study in which 38 subjects were randomized to receive a placebo, 3 dose levels of PUR0200 or a lactose-blend reference product. Data from the Phase Ib clinical study demonstrated significant bronchodilator activity at all PUR0200 doses with peak and trough increase in Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 second (FEV1, a measure of lung function) comparable to the reference product. Plasma pharmacokinetics endpoints from the Phase Ib clinical study identified PUR0200 doses similar to the reference product and targets for bioequivalent development. 

A second clinical trial initiated in January 2016 in Europe to further study the pharmacokinetic profile of PUR0200 compared to the reference product. This single dose, pilot pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers aims to define the relationship between PUR0200 formulation parameters and pharmacokinetics in comparison to the reference product. Data from the pilot pharmacokinetic study will be used to establish the formulation parameters required to achieve bioequivalence. Pulmatrix plans to develop this program towards pharmacokinetic bioequivalence in Europe and to initiate FDA&#146;s 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway in the United States. For further information about the 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, see &#147;&#151; Government Regulation &#151; Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications &#148; below. 

On March 24, 2015, we entered into a letter agreement with Mylan related to the development, manufacture and commercialization of PUR0200. Pursuant to the letter agreement, we agreed to work with Mylan to develop a pharmacokinetic study plan of PUR0200 that was subject to their written approval. Following an amendment to 

&#160;

the letter agreement, Mylan agreed to reimburse us up to $1,878,074 of expenses incurred in connection with the agreed-upon study plan. As consideration for Mylan funding the studies, we granted Mylan an option to negotiate for the exclusive right to develop, manufacture, commercialize and market any resulting products outside the United States for one hundred eighty (180) days following the date that we deliver a report detailing the outcome of the pharmacokinetic studies of PUR0200 to Mylan, in exchange for our receipt of gross profit share of up to twenty percent (20%) of the gross profit of such pharmaceutical company&#146;s sales of PUR0200 outside the United States. 

IPF 

IPF is a progressive and generally fatal disease characterized by scarring of the lungs over time that thickens the tissue lining of the lungs, causing an irreversible loss of the tissue&#146;s ability to expand to transport oxygen. The cause of IPF is currently unknown. 

Competition and Market Opportunities 

From 1990 &#151; 2011, estimates of the IPF prevalence ranged from 14.0 to 27.9 cases per 100,000 population in the US (Fern&#225;ndez-P&#233;rez et al., 2010; Raghu et al., 2006b; Thomeer et al., 2001; von Plessen et al., 2003) and about 30,000 new cases are being diagnosed annually according to the Fibrosis Insight Briefing by Defined Health in 2012. Two recently approved drugs, Ofev (nintedanib) and Esbriet (pirfenidone) offer the first therapeutic options for IPF patients in the United States. Both Ofev and Esbriet are oral therapies and commonly cause gastrointestinal side effects that could be severe depending on the patient. In addition, both approved drugs slow the progression of IPF but have not been proven to cure the disease. To the best of our knowledge, other pharmaceutical companies such as Bristol-Myers Squibb and Biogen Idec are developing oral and injectable therapies for IPF that are in Phase II clinical trials. We believe that our development of an inhaled IPF therapy could offer patients with a new therapeutic treatment class with improved efficacy or reduced side effect profiles. As such, we anticipate that an iSPERSE-based inhaled therapy for IPF could compete with Ofev and Esbriet and other therapies being developed for the same or similar indications. 

Clinical Development 

The PUR1500 program is evaluating possible inhaled therapies for IPF in formulation feasibility and preclinical studies. In October 2015, we entered into an alliance with Celdara Medical, LLC to develop an inhaled biologic to treat IPF and were awarded a $1.7 million grant by the National Institutes of Health to fund our development activities. The research and development associated with these feasibility programs may result in additional grants and their successful completion of feasibility programs may result in licensing agreements of the iSPERSE platform should the partner wish to continue development. 

Intellectual Property 

Patents and Patent Applications 

We protect our intellectual property by filing patents on: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; iSPERSE powder composition of matter and properties; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; method of use for local or systemic delivery of drugs for many indications; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; process, manufacturing, device and packaging of a therapeutic candidate and including combination therapeutic uses. The composition of matter patents encompass the salt formulations, and variants and derivatives thereof. The status of individual filings varies, and, as of December 31, 2015, we have been granted or allowed nationally 43 active patents related to iSPERSE, with expiration dates ranging from 2025 to 2031. 

&#160;

As of December 31, 2015, we had 113 patents and pending patent applications (including provisional applications) related to the iSPERSE technology in our patent portfolio, of which we were the sole owner of eight issued or allowed U.S. patents, with expiration dates ranging from 2025 to 2031, and 35 issued or allowed foreign patents, with expiration dates of 2025 to 2031. We had approximately 70 additional pending patent applications (including provisionals) in the United States, Europe, Asia and other jurisdictions as of such date. There can be no assurance that these patent applications will be granted. The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries in which we file, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest date of filing a non-provisional patent application. In the United States, the patent term of a patent that covers a FDA-approved drug may also be eligible for patent term extension, which permits patent term restoration as compensation for the patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. The length of the patent term extension is related to the length of time the drug is under regulatory review. Patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended. Similar provisions are available in Europe and other foreign jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if and when our products receive FDA approval, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on patents covering those products. We plan to seek patent term extensions to any of its issued patents in any jurisdiction where these are available. However, there is no guarantee that the applicable authorities, including the FDA in the United States, will agree with our assessment on whether such extensions should be granted, and if granted, the length of such extensions. 

The patent positions of biotechnology companies like us are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and its scope can be reinterpreted after issuance. Consequently, we may not obtain or maintain adequate patent protection for any of our product candidates. We cannot predict whether the patent applications we are currently pursuing will issue as patents in any particular jurisdiction or whether the claims of any issued patents will provide sufficient proprietary protection from competitors. Any patents that we hold may be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties. 

Trade Secrets 

We also rely on trade secret protection of our confidential and proprietary information, including the iSPERSE technology. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, including through contractual means with our employees, consultants and others, third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology. Thus, we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. It is our policy to require our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with Pulmatrix. These confidentiality agreements provide that all confidential information concerning our business or financial affairs developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual&#146;s relationship with us must be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. Our confidentiality agreements with our employees also provide that all inventions conceived by the employee in the course of employment with us or from the employee&#146;s use of our confidential information are our exclusive property. 

Manufacturing 

We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of our product candidates. We have small-scale production capabilities and generally perform early process development for our product candidates to produce quantities necessary to conduct preclinical studies of our investigational product candidates. We do not have, and do not currently plan to acquire or develop, the facilities or capabilities to manufacture bulk drug substance or filled drug product for use in human clinical studies. We rely on contract manufacturing organizations (&#147;CMOs&#148;), and third party contractors to generate 

&#160;

drug-loaded formulations and produce larger scale amounts of drug substance and the drug product required for our clinical studies. We expect to continue to rely on CMOs to manufacture drug substances and drug products current good manufacturing practices (&#147;cGMP&#148;) required for our clinical studies for the foreseeable future. We also contract with CMOs for the labeling, packaging, storage and distribution of investigational drug products. These arrangements allow us to maintain a more flexible infrastructure while focusing its expertise on researching and developing our products. 

We expect to continue to rely on contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates in accordance with cGMP for use in clinical trials. The cGMP compliance includes strict adherence to regulations for quality control, quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. The manufacturing facilities for our approved products, if any, must meet cGMP requirements and have acquired FDA or other regulatory approval for the manufacturing of our commercial products. Our contract manufacturers may also be subject to inspections of facilities by regulatory authorities to ensure compliance with applicable regulations. Contract manufacturers often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. We have little or no direct control over our manufacturers&#146; compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. These actions could have a material impact on the availability of products. 

Suppliers 

We rely on third-party vendors to supply the APIs that are used to formulate our therapeutic candidates. We place purchase orders with a single supplier for the APIs required for PUR0200 and PUR1900, but there are many other potential API suppliers in the market. 

Research and Development 

During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, we spent approximately $7.2 million and $6.6 million on research and development activities, respectively. 

Government Regulation 

Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies such as the FDA in the United States and the European Medicines Agency in Europe. The manufacture, distribution, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products are subject to government regulation in the United States and various foreign countries. Additionally, in the United States, we must follow rules and regulations established by the FDA requiring the presentation of data indicating that our products are safe and efficacious and are manufactured in accordance with cGMP regulations. If we do not comply with applicable requirements, we may be fined, the government may refuse to approve our marketing applications or allow us to manufacture or market its products, and we may be criminally prosecuted. We and our manufacturers and clinical research organizations may also be subject to regulations under other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act and import, export and customs regulations as well as the laws and regulations of other countries. Pharmaceutical companies must ensure their compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act, and the U.S. government has increased its enforcement activity regarding illegal marketing practices domestically and internationally. 

These regulatory requirements impact our operations and differ from one country to another, such that securing the applicable regulatory approvals of one country does not imply the approval of another country. However, securing the approval of a more stringent body, e.g . the FDA, may facilitate receiving the approval by a 

&#160;

regulatory authority in a different country where the regulatory requirements are similar or less stringent. The approval procedures involve high costs and are manpower intensive, usually extend over many years and require highly skilled and professional resources. 

FDA Approval Process 

The steps required to be taken before a new drug may be marketed in the United States generally include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Completion of pre-clinical laboratory and animal testing; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug (&#147;IND&#148;), application, which must be evaluated and found acceptable by the FDA before human clinical trials may commence; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Submission and approval of a new drug application (&#147;NDA&#148;). Clinical studies are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the study, what types of patients may enter the study, schedules of tests and procedures, drugs, dosages, and length of study, as well as the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical study and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. 

In all the countries that are signatories of the Helsinki Declaration, the prerequisite for conducting clinical trials (on human subjects) is securing the preliminary approval of the competent authorities of that country to conduct medical experiments on human subjects in compliance with the other principles established by the Helsinki Declaration. 

The clinical testing of a drug product candidate generally is conducted in three sequential phases prior to approval, but the phases may overlap or be combined. A fourth, or post approval, phase may include additional clinical studies. The phases are generally as follows: 

Phase I. In Phase I clinical studies, the product is tested in a small number of patients with the target condition or disease or in healthy volunteers. These studies are designed to evaluate the safety, dosage tolerance, metabolism and pharmacologic actions of the product candidate in humans, side effects associated with increasing doses, and, in some cases, to gain early evidence on efficacy. The number of participants included in Phase I studies is generally in the range of 20 to 80. 

Phase II . In Phase II studies, in addition to safety, the sponsor evaluates the efficacy of the product candidate on targeted indications to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage and to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. Phase II studies typically are larger than Phase I but smaller than Phase III studies and may involve several hundred participants. 

Phase III . Phase III studies typically involve an expanded patient population at geographically-dispersed test sites. They are performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of the product candidate has been obtained and are designed to further evaluate clinical efficacy and safety, to establish the overall benefit-risk relationship of the product candidate and to provide an adequate basis for a potential product approval. Phase III studies usually involve several hundred to several thousand participants. 

Phase IV. Phase IV clinical trials are post marketing studies designed to collect additional safety data as well as potentially expand a product indication. Post marketing commitments are required of, or agreed to by, a sponsor after the FDA has approved a product for marketing. These studies are used to gain additional information from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication and to verify a clinical benefit in the case of drugs approved under accelerated approval regulations. If the FDA approves a product while a company has ongoing 

&#160;

clinical trials that were not necessary for approval, a company may be able to use the data from these clinical trials to meet all or part of any Phase IV clinical trial requirement. These clinical trials are often referred to as Phase IV post-approval or post marketing commitments. Failure to promptly conduct Phase IV clinical trials could result in the inability to deliver the product into interstate commerce, misbranding charges, and civil monetary penalties. 

Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA&#146;s good clinical practices (&#147;GCP&#148;), requirements. The FDA may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical study at any time or impose other sanctions if it believes that the clinical study is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or that the participants are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. An institutional review board (&#147;IRB&#148;), generally must approve the clinical trial design and patient informed consent at study sites that the IRB oversees and also may halt a study, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB&#146;s requirements, or may impose other conditions. Additionally, some clinical studies are overseen by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the clinical study sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board or committee. This group recommends whether or not a trial may move forward at designated check points based on access to certain data from the study. The clinical study sponsor may also suspend or terminate a clinical trial based on evolving business objectives and/or competitive climate. 

As a product candidate moves through the clinical testing phases, manufacturing processes are further defined, refined, controlled and validated. The level of control and validation required by the FDA would generally increases as clinical studies progress. We and the third-party manufacturers on which we rely for the manufacture of our product candidates and their respective components (including the API) are subject to requirements that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with cGMP. To comply with cGMP requirements, manufacturers must continue to spend time, money and effort to meet requirements relating to personnel, facilities, equipment, production and process, labeling and packaging, quality control, recordkeeping and other requirements. 

Assuming completion of all required testing in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements, detailed information on the product candidate is submitted to the FDA in the form of NDA, requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications, together with payment of a user fee, unless waived. A NDA includes all relevant data available from pertinent nonclinical and clinical studies, including negative or ambiguous results as well as positive findings, together with detailed information on the chemistry, manufacture, control and proposed labeling, among other things. To support marketing approval, the data submitted must be sufficient in quality and quantity to establish the safety and efficacy of the product candidate for its intended use to the satisfaction of the FDA 

If a NDA submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (&#147;PDUFA&#148;), the FDA&#146;s goal is to complete its initial review and respond to the applicant within twelve months of submission, unless the application relates to an unmet medical need in a serious or life-threatening indication, in which case the goal may be within eight months of NDA submission. However, PDUFA goal dates are not legal mandates and FDA response often occurs several months beyond the original PDUFA goal date. Further, the review process and the target response date under PDUFA may be extended if the FDA requests or the NDA sponsor otherwise provides additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the NDA. The NDA review process can, accordingly, be very lengthy. During its review of a NDA, the FDA may refer the application to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it typically follows such recommendations. Data from clinical studies are not always conclusive and the FDA and/or any advisory committee it appoints may interpret data differently than the applicant. 

After the FDA evaluates the NDA and inspects manufacturing facilities where the drug product and/or its API will be produced, it will either approve commercial marketing of the drug product with prescribing information 

&#160;

for specific indications or issue a complete response letter indicating that the application is not ready for approval and stating the conditions that must be met in order to secure approval of the NDA. If the complete response letter requires additional data and the applicant subsequently submits that data, the FDA nevertheless may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy its criteria for approval. The FDA could also approve the NDA with a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (&#147;REMS&#148;), plan to mitigate risks, which could include medication guides, physician communication plans, or elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. The FDA also may condition approval on, among other things, changes to proposed labeling, development of adequate controls and specifications, or a commitment to conduct post-marketing testing. Such post-marketing testing may include Phase IV clinical studies and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product&#146;s safety and efficacy after approval. Regulatory approval of products for serious or life-threatening indications may require that participants in clinical studies be followed for long periods to determine the overall survival benefit of the drug. 

If the FDA approves one of our therapeutic candidates, we will be required to comply with a number of post-approval regulatory requirements. We will also be required to report, among other things, certain adverse reactions and production problems to the FDA, provide updated safety and efficacy information and comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling for any of its products. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval, and the FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural, substantive and record keeping requirements. If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such as certain manufacturing changes, we will need FDA review and approval before the change can be implemented. For example, if we change the manufacturer of a product or its API, the FDA may require stability or other data from the new manufacturer, which will take time and is costly to generate, and the delay associated with generating this data may cause interruptions in its ability to meet commercial demand, if any. While physicians may use products for indications that have not been approved by the FDA, we may not label or promote the product for an indication that has not been approved. Securing FDA approval for new indications is similar to the process for approval of the original indication and requires, among other things, submitting data from adequate and well-controlled studies that demonstrate the product&#146;s safety and efficacy in the new indication. Even if such studies are conducted, the FDA may not approve any change in a timely fashion, or at all. 

We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the manufacture of clinical and future commercial, quantities of its therapeutic candidates. Future FDA and state inspections may identify compliance issues at these third-party facilities that may disrupt production or distribution or require substantial resources to correct. In addition, discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or the failure to comply with applicable requirements may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA, including withdrawal or recall of the product from the market or other voluntary, FDA-initiated or judicial action that could delay or prohibit further marketing. Newly discovered or developed safety or efficacy data may require changes to a product&#146;s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications, and also may require the implementation of other risk management measures. Many of the foregoing could limit the commercial value of an approved product or require us to commit substantial additional resources in connection with the approval of a product. Also, new government requirements, including those resulting from new legislation, may be established, or the FDA&#146;s policies may change, which could delay or prevent regulatory approval of its products under development. 

Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications 

As an alternate path for FDA approval of new indications or new formulations of previously-approved products, a company may file a Section 505(b)(2) NDA, instead of a &#147;stand-alone&#148; or &#147;full&#148; NDA. Section 505(b)(2) of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act(&#147;FDC&#148;), was enacted as part of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, otherwise known as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Section 505(b)(2) permits the submission of a NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. Some 

&#160;

examples of products that may be allowed to follow a 505(b)(2) path to approval are drugs that have a new dosage form, strength, route of administration, formulation or indication. 

The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit the applicant to rely upon certain published nonclinical or clinical studies conducted for an approved product or the FDA&#146;s conclusions from prior review of such studies. The FDA may require companies to perform additional studies or measurements to support any changes from the approved product. The FDA may then approve the new product for all or some of the labeled indications for which the reference product has been approved, as well as for any new indication supported by the NDA. While references to nonclinical and clinical data not generated by the applicant or for which the applicant does not have a right of reference are allowed, all development, process, stability, qualification and validation data related to the manufacturing and quality of the new product must be included in an NDA submitted under Section 505(b)(2). 

To the extent that the Section 505(b)(2) applicant is relying on the FDA&#146;s conclusions regarding studies conducted for an already approved product, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA&#146;s Orange Book publication. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: (i) the required patent information has not been filed; (ii) the listed patent has expired; (iii) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (iv) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the new product. The Section 505(b)(2) application also will not be approved until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book for the reference product has expired. Thus, the Section 505(b)(2) applicant may invest a significant amount of time and expense in the development of its products only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before its products may be commercialized. 

Orphan Drug Designation 

The Orphan Drug Act of 1983 (the &#147;Orphan Drug Act&#148;), encourages manufacturers to seek approval of products intended to treat &#147;rare diseases and conditions&#148; with a prevalence of fewer than 200,000 patients in the United States or for which there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the development costs for the product. For products that receive Orphan Drug designation by the FDA, the Orphan Drug Act provides tax credits for clinical research, FDA assistance with protocol design, eligibility for FDA grants to fund clinical studies, waiver of the FDA application fee, and a period of seven years of marketing exclusivity for the product following FDA marketing approval. 

Foreign Regulation 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of its products. Whether or not Pulmatrix obtains FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. 

Under European Union regulatory systems, a company may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which is compulsory for medicines produced by biotechnology or those medicines intended to treat AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders or diabetes and optional for those medicines which are highly innovative, provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. Abridged applications for the authorization of generic versions of drugs authorized by European Medicines Agency can be submitted to the European Medicines Agency through a centralized procedure referencing the innovator&#146;s data and demonstrating bioequivalence to the reference product, among other things. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions. Under this procedure, the holder of a national marketing authorization 

&#160;

may submit an application to the remaining member states. Within 90 days of receiving the applications and assessments report, each member state must decide whether to recognize approval. If a member state does not recognize the marketing authorization, the disputed points are eventually referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all member states. 

Reimbursement 

In the United States and other countries, sales of any products for which Pulmatrix receives regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, including government health administrative authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. Each third-party payor may have its own policy regarding what products it will cover, the conditions under which it will cover such products, and how much it will pay for such products. Third-party payors are increasingly examining the medical necessity and cost effectiveness of medical products and services in addition to safety and efficacy and, accordingly, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics. Third-party reimbursement adequate to enable us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in research and product development may not be available for our products. 

The passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003 (the &#147;MMA&#148;), sets forth the requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries, which may affect the marketing of our products. The MMA also introduced a new reimbursement methodology. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. 

In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. 

We expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. 

Compliance with Environmental Laws 

Compliance with applicable environmental requirements during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 and subsequently has not had a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 18 full-time employees, 12 of whom were engaged in full-time research and development activities, and 4 part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by any collective bargaining unit. We believe that we maintain good relations with our employees. 

Properties 

Our corporate headquarters are located in Lexington, Massachusetts. We currently lease approximately 21,810 square feet of office space in Lexington, Massachusetts under a lease that expires on December 31, 2020. We 

&#160;

believe that our existing facilities are adequate to meet our current needs, and that suitable additional alternative spaces will be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms for our future growth. 

Available Information 

We make available, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports on our website at www.pulmatrix.com as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports and other information is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

&#160;

