 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

A. The Company 

Alliance One International, Inc. ("we," "Alliance One" or the "Company") is a Virginia corporation with revenues of approximately $1.9 billion and operating income of approximately $201.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2016. Our common stock has been traded on the New York Stock Exchange since 1995. Through our predecessor companies, we have a long operating history in the leaf tobacco industry with some customer relationships beginning in the early 1900s. Alliance One is one of only two global publicly held leaf tobacco merchants, each with similar global market shares. We have broad geographic processing capabilities, a diversified product offering and an established customer base, including all of the major consumer tobacco product manufacturers. Our goal is to be the preferred supplier of quality tobacco products and innovative solutions to the world&#8217;s manufacturers and marketers of tobacco products. 

Additional Information 

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . 

Our website address is http://www.aointl.com . We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information contained on our website shall not be deemed part of this annual report on Form 10-K for any reason. 

B. The Business 

Leaf tobacco merchants purchase, process, pack, store and ship tobacco to manufacturers of cigarettes and other consumer tobacco products throughout the world. In an increasing number of markets, we also provide agronomy expertise for growing leaf tobacco. Our revenues are primarily comprised of sales of processed tobacco and fees charged for processing and related services to these manufacturers of tobacco products. Processing and other revenues are less than 5% of our total revenues. We do not manufacture cigarettes or other consumer tobacco products. 

We deal primarily in flue-cured, burley, and oriental tobaccos that are used in international brand cigarettes. Several of the large multinational cigarette manufacturers have operations throughout the world, particularly in Asia, Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, in order to access and penetrate the international brand cigarette markets. As cigarette manufacturers expand their global operations, we believe that demand will increase for local sources of leaf tobacco and local tobacco processing and distribution, primarily due to beneficial tariff rates and lower freight costs. We believe that for some large multinational cigarette manufacturers, international expansion will cause them to place greater reliance on the services of leaf tobacco merchants with the ability to source and process tobacco on a global basis and to help develop higher quality local sources of tobacco by improving local agronomic practices. For other large multinational cigarette manufacturers, international expansion also includes vertical integration of their operations, either through acquisition of the operations of existing leaf tobacco merchants, establishing new operations or contracting directly with suppliers. In fiscal 2014, we completed the formation of a joint venture in Brazil with China Tobacco International, Inc. The joint venture entity had previously operated as one of our subsidiaries since its formation in 2012. In recent years, Japan Tobacco, Inc. (&#8220;JTI&#8221;) enhanced their direct leaf procurement capabilities with the acquisition of small leaf processors in Malawi and Brazil and the formation a joint venture for tobacco leaf in the United States. Philip Morris International, Inc. (&#8220;PMI&#8221;) has also strengthened their direct leaf procurement capabilities with the acquisition of supplier contracts and the related assets from Alliance One and from another tobacco merchant in Brazil. In addition, some customers have entered into joint venture arrangements to secure their future leaf requirements. In fiscal 2016, some customers began reversing certain aspects of their previous vertical integration of operations. We will continue to work with our customers to meet all their needs as their buying patterns and business models change while continuing to be a provider of quality tobacco products and innovative solutions. 

Purchasing 

Tobacco is primarily purchased directly from suppliers with small quantities still sold at auction. In non-auction markets, we purchase tobacco directly from suppliers and we assume the risk of matching the quantities and grades required by our customers to the entire crop we must purchase under contract. In other non-auction markets, such as China, we buy tobacco from local entities that have purchased tobacco from suppliers and supervise the processing of that tobacco by those local entities. Principal auction markets include India, Malawi and Zimbabwe and our network of tobacco operations and buyers allows us to cover the major auctions of flue-cured and burley tobacco throughout the world. In the United States and other locations, a number of our customers purchase tobacco directly from the suppliers in addition to the leaf merchants. Although our facilities process the tobacco purchased directly from suppliers by these customers, we do not take ownership of that tobacco and do not record sales revenues associated with its resale. 

- 3 - 

Purchasing (continued) 

Our arrangements with suppliers vary from locale to locale depending on our predictions of future supply and demand, local historical practice and availability of capital. In certain jurisdictions, we purchase seeds, fertilizer, pesticides and other products related to growing tobacco and advance them to suppliers, which represents prepaid inventory. The suppliers then utilize these inputs to grow tobacco, which we are contractually obligated to purchase. The advances of inputs for the current crop generally include the original cost of the inputs plus a mark-up and interest as it is earned. Where contractually permitted, we charge interest to the suppliers during the period the current crop advance is outstanding. We generally advance inputs at a price greater than our cost, which results in a mark-up on the inputs. We account for our advances to tobacco suppliers using a cost accumulation model, which results in us reporting our advances at the lower of cost or recoverable amounts excluding the mark-up and interest. The mark-up and interest on our advances are recognized when the tobacco is delivered as a decrease in our cost of the current crop. Upon delivery of tobacco, part of the purchase price paid to the supplier is paid in cash and part through a reduction of the advance balance. The advances applied to the delivery are reclassified out of advances and into unprocessed inventory. We advance inputs only to suppliers with whom we have purchase contracts. For example, in Brazil, we generally contract to purchase a supplier's entire tobacco crop at the market price per grade at the time of harvest based on the quality of the tobacco delivered. Pursuant to these purchase contracts, we provide suppliers with fertilizer and other materials necessary to grow tobacco and may guarantee Brazilian rural credit loans to suppliers to finance the crop. Under longer-term arrangements with suppliers, we may advance or guarantee financing on suppliers' capital assets, which are also recovered through the delivery of tobacco to us by our suppliers. 

In these jurisdictions, our agronomists maintain frequent contact with suppliers prior to and during the growing and curing seasons to provide technical assistance to improve the quality and yield of the crop. As a result of various factors including weather, not all suppliers are able to settle the entire amount of advances through delivery of tobacco in a given crop year. Throughout the crop cycle, we monitor events that may impact the suppliers&#8217; ability to deliver tobacco. If we determine we will not be able to recover the original cost of the advances with deliveries of the current crop, or future crop deliveries, the unit cost of tobacco actually received is increased when unrecoverable costs are within a normal range which is based on our historical results or expensed immediately when they are above a normal range based on our historical results. We account for the unrecoverable costs in this manner to ensure only costs within a normal range are capitalized in inventory and costs that are above a normal range are expensed immediately as current period charges. 

Alliance One has developed an extensive international network through which we purchase, process and sell tobacco and we hold a leading position in most tobacco growing regions in the world. We purchase tobacco in more than 35 countries. During the three years ended March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, approximately 24%, 20% and 21%, respectively, of our purchases of tobacco were from the North America operating segment and approximately 76%, 80% and 79%, respectively, were from the Other Regions operating segment. Within the Other Regions operating segment, approximately 61%, 63% and 63% of our total purchases for the three years ended March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, were from China, Brazil, Turkey and the Africa Region. 

Processing 

We process tobacco to meet each customer's specifications as to quality, yield, chemistry, particle size, moisture content and other characteristics. Unprocessed tobacco is a semi-perishable commodity that generally must be processed within a relatively short period of time to prevent fermentation or deterioration in quality. The processing of leaf tobacco facilitates shipping and prevents spoilage and is an essential service to our customers because the quality of processed leaf tobacco substantially affects the quality of the manufacturer&#8217;s end product. Accordingly, we have located our production facilities in proximity to our principal sources of tobacco. 

We process tobacco in more than 35 owned and third-party facilities around the world including Argentina, Brazil, China, Zimbabwe, Jordan, Guatemala, India, Tanzania, the United States, Malawi, Thailand, Germany, Indonesia, Macedonia, Bulgaria and Turkey. These facilities encompass all leading export locations of flue-cured, burley and oriental tobaccos. In addition, we have entered into contracts, joint ventures and other arrangements for the purchase of tobacco grown in substantially all other countries that produce export-quality flue-cured and burley tobacco. 

Upon arrival at our processing plants, flue-cured and burley tobacco is first reclassified according to grade. Most of that tobacco is then blended to meet customer specifications regarding color, body and chemistry, threshed to remove the stem from the leaf and further processed to produce strips of tobacco and sieve out small scrap. We also sell a small amount of processed but unthreshed flue-cured and burley tobacco in loose-leaf and bundle form to certain customers. Oriental tobaccos are handled and processed in a similar manner other than that the tobaccos are not threshed to remove stems. 

Processed flue-cured, burley and oriental tobacco is redried to remove excess moisture so that it can be held in storage by customers or us for long periods of time. After redrying, whole leaves, bundles, strips or stems and scrap where applicable are separately packed in cases, bales, cartons or hogsheads for storage and shipment. Packed flue-cured, burley and oriental tobacco generally is transported in the country of origin by truck or rail, and exports are moved by ship. Prior to and during processing, steps are taken to ensure consistent quality of the tobacco, including the regrading and removal of undesirable leaves, dirt and other non-tobacco related material. Customer representatives are frequently present at our facilities to monitor the processing of their particular orders. Throughout the processing, our technicians use quality control laboratory test equipment to ensure that the product meets all customer specifications. 

- 4 - 

Selling 

We ship tobacco to manufacturers of cigarettes and other consumer tobacco products located in approximately 90 countries around the world as designated by these manufacturers. We recognize sales revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price to the customer is fixed, collectability is reasonably assured and title and risk of ownership is passed to the customer, which is upon either shipment or delivery. In certain countries we also use commissioned agents to supplement our selling efforts. Individual shipments may be large, and since the customer typically specifies shipping dates, our financial results may vary significantly between reporting periods due to timing of sales. In some markets, principally the United States, we process tobacco that is owned by our customers, and revenue is recognized when the processing is completed. 

The consumer tobacco business is dominated by a relatively small number of large multinational cigarette manufacturers and by government controlled entities. Including their respective affiliates, accounting for more than 10% of our revenues were each of PMI and China Tobacco International, Inc. for the years ended March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. 

In 2016, Alliance One delivered approximately 44% of its tobacco sales to customers in Europe and approximately 16% to customers in the United States. One customer directs shipments to its Belgium storage and distribution center before shipment to its manufacturing facilities in Europe and Asia. In 2016, these Belgium sales accounted for 7% of sales to customers in Europe. The remaining sales are to customers located in Asia, Africa and other geographic regions of the world. 

Seasonality 

The purchasing and processing activities of our tobacco business are seasonal. Flue-cured tobacco grown in the United States is purchased, processed and marketed generally during the five-month period beginning in July and ending in November. U.S. grown burley tobacco is purchased, processed and marketed usually from late November through January or February. Tobacco grown in Brazil is usually purchased, processed and marketed from January through July and in Africa from April through September. Other markets around the world have similar purchasing periods, although at different times of the year. 

During the purchasing, processing and marketing seasons, inventories of unprocessed tobacco, inventories of redried tobacco and trade accounts receivable normally reach peak levels in succession. Current liabilities, particularly advances from customers and short-term notes payable to banks, normally reach their peak in this period as a means of financing the seasonal expansion of current assets. At March 31, the end of our fiscal year, the seasonal components of our working capital reflect primarily the operations related to foreign grown tobacco. 

Competition 

Alliance One is one of only two global publicly held leaf tobacco merchants, with substantially similar global market shares in markets in which we both operate. We hold a leading position in most major tobacco growing regions in the world, including the principal export markets for flue-cured, burley and oriental tobacco and, as a result of our scale, global reach, and financial resources, we believe we are well-suited to serve the needs of all manufacturers of cigarettes and other consumer tobacco products. 

The leaf tobacco industry is highly competitive and competition is based primarily on the price charged for products and services as well as the merchant's ability to meet customer specifications in the buying, processing, residue compliance and financing of tobacco. In addition to the primary global independent leaf tobacco merchants, there are a number of other independent global, regional or national competitors. Local independent leaf merchants with low fixed costs and overhead also supply cigarette manufacturers. Recent vertical integration initiatives and other changes in customer buying patterns have resulted in a more dynamic and competitive operating environment. There is also competition in all countries to buy the available leaf tobacco and in many areas, total leaf tobacco processing capacity exceeds demand. 

Reportable Segments 

The purchasing, processing, selling and storing of leaf tobacco is similar throughout our business. However, we maintain regional operating and financial management in North America, South America, Europe, Africa and Asia to monitor our various operations in these areas. In reviewing these operations, we have concluded that the economic characteristics of North America are dissimilar from the other operating regions. Based on this fact, we disclose North America separately and aggregate the remaining four operating segments, Africa, Asia, Europe and South America into one reportable segment &#8220;Other Regions.&#8221; Our financial performance is reviewed at this level and these regions represent our operating segments. See Note 14 &#8220;Segment Information&#8221; to the &#8220;Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#8221; for financial information attributable to our reportable segments. 

C. Other 

Research and Development 

We routinely cooperate with both our customers and the manufacturers of the equipment used in our processing facilities to improve processing technologies. However, no material amounts are expended for research and development, and we hold no material patents, licenses, franchises, or concessions. 

- 5 - 

Alliance One Employees 

Alliance One's consolidated entities employed approximately 3,299 persons, excluding seasonal employees, in our worldwide operations at March 31, 2016. In the Other Regions operating segment, Alliance One's consolidated entities employed approximately 2,665 employees at March 31, 2016, excluding approximately 4,536 seasonal employees. Most seasonal employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In the North America operating segment, Alliance One's consolidated entities employed approximately 634 employees at March 31, 2016, excluding approximately 206 seasonal employees. Most seasonal employees as well as approximately 202 full-time factory personnel in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider Alliance One's employee relations to be satisfactory. 

Government Regulation and Environmental Compliance 

See Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; for a discussion of government regulation. Currently there are no material estimated capital expenditures related to environmental control facilities. In addition, there is no material effect on capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position anticipated as a result of compliance with current or pending federal or state laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF ALLIANCE ONE INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

The following information is furnished with respect to the Company's executive officers as of April 1, 2016, and the capacities in which they serve. These officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and are elected at each annual organizational meeting of the Board. 

NAME 

AGE 

TITLE 

J. Pieter Sikkel 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Graham J. Kayes 

Executive Vice President - Business Relationship Management and Leaf 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Jose Maria Costa Garcia 

Executive Vice President - Global Operations and Supply Chain 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Joel L. Thomas 

Executive Vice-President - Chief Financial Officer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

William L. O&#8217;Quinn, Jr. 

Senior Vice President - Chief Legal Officer and Secretary 

The business experience summaries provided below for the Company's executive officers describe positions held by the named individuals during the last five years. 

J. Pieter Sikkel &#32;has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Alliance One International, Inc., since March 2013, having previously served as President from December 14, 2010 through February 2013, Executive Vice President - Business Strategy and Relationship Management from May 2007 through December 13, 2010, and as Regional Director of Asia from May 2005 through April 2007. 

Graham J. Kayes &#32;has served as Executive Vice President - Business Relationship Management and Leaf since July 2014, having previously served as Regional Director - Africa from February 2011 through June 2014, and as Managing Director of the Company's Tanzanian subsidiary from June 2007 through January 2011. 

Jose Maria Costa Garcia has served as Executive Vice President - Global Operations and Supply Chain since August 2012, having previously served as Regional Director - Europe from September 2008 through July 2012, and as Regional Financial Director - Europe from April 2005 through August 2008. 

Joel L. Thomas has served as Executive Vice President - Chief Financial Officer since January 2014, having previously served as Vice President - Treasurer from December 2005 through December 2013. 

William L. O&#8217;Quinn, Jr. &#32;has served as Senior Vice President - Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since April 2011, having previously served as Senior Vice President - Assistant General Counsel and Secretary from January 2011 through March 2011, and as Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from August 2005 through December 2010. 

- 6 - 

