 Item 1. Business.

Ariel Clean Energy Inc. began its existence as Pacific Development Corporation, incorporated under the laws of State of Colorado on September 21, 1992 ("Pacific"). On March 23, 2000, through a re-incorporation, Pacific and Cheshire Holdings, Inc. were merged into a single corporation existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with Cheshire Holdings, Inc. being the surviving corporation. The name of the surviving corporation was changed to Cheshire Distributors, Inc. On July 17, 2003, Cheshire Distributors, Inc. changed its name to LMIC, Inc. ("LMIC"). LMIC through its wholly owned subsidiary LMIC Manufacturing, Inc. was a contract electronics manufacturing services firm. On August 3, 2012, we restated our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, including but not limited to changing our name from LMIC, Inc. to Z Holdings Group, Inc. On October 31, 2012, we merged with and into Big Time Acquisition, Inc. ("Predecessor"), a Delaware Form 10 blank check company that was controlled by our majority shareholders with the same sole officer and director, and we became successor registrant pursuant to Rule 12g-3 of the Securities Exchange Act ("Exchange Act"). Currently, the company plans to acquire or merge with an operating business, although the Company has no specific businesses it has targeted.

&#160;

The total number of authorized shares of all classes of capital stock of the Company is 1,250,000,000 shares, consisting of: 1,000,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, $0.000006 par value per share ("Class A Common Stock"), 200,000,000 shares of Class B Common Stock, $0.000006 par value per share ("Class B Common Stock" and together with the Class A Common Stock, collectively the " Common Stock ") and 50,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, $0.000006 par value per share. The number of authorized shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of capital stock representing a majority of the voting power of all the then outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote thereon, irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the General Corporation Law.

Corporate History

On May 6, 2005, LMIC filed a petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (case no. 05-13274) and subsequently converted to Chapter 7 on June 30, 2005. The Company's assets were transferred to a United States Trustee and the Company terminated its business operations. The Bankruptcy Trustee disposed of substantially all the assets of the Company. On February 23, 2009, the Trustee for LMIC filed a notice of motion for the sale of the Company's corporate entity through the sale of 80,000,000 restricted shares of the Company's authorized yet unissued common stock to Moorpark Limited, LLC, a Rhode Island Limited Liability Company ("Moorpark"). The accounts of the former subsidiary of LMIC were not included in the sale and have not been carried forward.

&#160;

On March 31, 2009, pursuant to 11 USC Section 363, a judgment order was issued allowing the Trustee to sell and transfer all of his right, title and interest in eighty million shares of restricted common stock of LMIC. to Moorpark. In addition, the federal court order allowed Moorpark to file any and all documents with the SEC that may be required to bring Z Holdings, Inc. into good standing.

On September, 19 2008, the Trustee sold 80,000,000 shares of restricted common voting stock to Moorpark in certificated form. On April 16, 2009, the Trustee abandoned all of his rights and interest in the corporate charter and bylaws of the Registrant. On June 9, 2009, by the requisite vote of the majority of the shareholders by written consent in lieu of a shareholder meeting pursuant to Delaware General Corporate Laws, Scot Scheer was appointed our sole officer and director.

&#160;

The Chapter 7 bankruptcy case was closed on November 14, 2011. LMIC voluntarily deregistered its common stock on December 23, 2009. The reason for deregistering our common stock at that time was due to the lack of financial information available to perform an audit for our year end 2004.

On September 5, 2014, we experienced a change in control, whereas our former control shareholder Moorpark Limited, LLC sold their controlling shares to SeaMorri Financial Partners, LLC ("SeaMorri"). As a result of the change in control, former management of the Company voluntarily resigned from their position(s) pursuant to the terms and conditions of a share purchase agreement attached to the 8-K filed on September 9, 2014, as Exhibit 10.1.

On October 29, 2012, by written consent in lieu of a meeting, the respective Boards of Directors and requisite majority shareholders of Ariel and Big Time Acquisition, Inc. approved the merger of Big Time Acquisition, Inc. into Ariel with Ariel as the surviving corporation.

Immediately before the effective time of merger, any and all outstanding shares of Big Time Acquisition, Inc. held by Ariel Clean Energy, Inc. were canceled, and at the closing of the Merger Agreement, Ariel issued a total of 90,000 restricted Class A common shares to the former shareholders of Big Time Acquisition, Inc. for their then outstanding shares of Big Time common stock. In the share exchange, Ariel received 90,000 shares of Big Time common stock representing 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of Big Time, which were deemed to be canceled. As a result of the Merger Agreement, Ariel is now the surviving company of the merger pursuant to Delaware General Corporate Law (DGCL), and deemed to be Successor Registrant. The issuance of such shares was exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act, and Regulation D promulgated thereunder.

Ariel was a shell company immediately before the merger and continues to be a shell company as of the date of this filing.

On July 15, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors approved to amend the Articles of Incorporation to change the Company's name from Z Holdings, Inc. to Ariel Clean Energy Inc.

As of the most recent audited period, the Company has generated no revenues or earnings from operations, possesses no significant assets or financial resources, and has no cash on hand. The Independent Auditor's Report to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015, are included in this report. The Independent Auditor's Report to the Company's financial statements indicates that there are a number of factors that raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. Such doubts identified in the report include the fact (i) that the Company has not established any source of revenue to cover its operating costs; (ii) that the Company will engage in very limited activities without incurring any liabilities that must be satisfied in cash until a source of funding is secured; (iii) that the Company will offer noncash consideration and seek equity lines as a means of financing its operations; (iv) that if it the Company is unable to obtain revenue producing contracts or financing or if the revenue or financing it does obtain is insufficient to cover any operating losses it may incur, it may substantially curtail or terminate its operations or seek other business opportunities through strategic alliances, acquisitions or other arrangements that may dilute the interests of existing stockholders.

&#160;

The Company is an "emerging growth company" ("EGC"), that is exempt from certain financial disclosure and governance requirements for up to five years as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the JOBS Act). The JOBS Act eases restrictions on the sale of securities; and increases the number of shareholders a company must have before becoming subject to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC's) reporting and disclosure rules (See Emerging Growth Companies Section Below). The Company has elected December 31 as its fiscal year end.

Current Business

We are currently seeking new business opportunities with established business entities for merger with or acquisition of a target business. In certain instances, a target business may wish to become our subsidiary or may wish to contribute assets to us rather than merge. We have not yet begun negotiations or entered into any definitive agreements for potential new business opportunities, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into any definitive agreements.

Any new acquisition or business opportunities that we may acquire will require additional financing. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to acquire the financing necessary to enable us to pursue our plan of operation. If our company requires additional financing and we are unable to acquire such funds, our business may fail.

Management of our company believes that there are benefits to being a reporting company with a class of securities quoted on the OTCQB, such as: (i) the ability to use registered securities to acquire assets or businesses; (ii) increased visibility in the financial community; (iii) the facilitation of borrowing from financial institutions; (iv) potentially improved trading efficiency; (v) potential stockholder liquidity; (vi) potentially greater ease in raising capital subsequent to an acquisition; (vii) potential compensation of key employees through stock awards or options; (viii) potentially enhanced corporate image; and (ix) a presence in the United States&#8217; capital market.

We may seek a business opportunity with entities that have recently commenced operations, or entities who wish to utilize the public marketplace in order to raise additional capital in order to expand business development activities, to develop a new product or service, or for other corporate purposes. We may acquire assets and establish wholly-owned subsidiaries in various businesses or acquire existing businesses as subsidiaries.

In implementing a structure for a particular business acquisition or opportunity, we may become a party to a merger, consolidation, reorganization, joint venture, or licensing agreement with another corporation or entity. We may also acquire stock or assets of an existing business. Upon the consummation of a transaction, it is anticipated that our sole officer and two directors will continue to manage the Company.

As of the date hereof, we have not entered into any formal written agreements for a business combination or opportunity. When any such agreement is reached, we intend to disclose such an agreement by filing a current report on Form 8-K.

We anticipate that the selection of a business opportunity in which to participate will be complex and without certainty of success. Business opportunities may be available in many different industries and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. Business opportunities that we believe are in the best interests of our company may be scarce, or we may be unable to obtain the ones that we want. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to locate compatible business opportunities.

Currently, we do not have a source of revenue. We are not able to fund our cash requirements through our current operations. We have been reliant on our majority shareholder, SeaMorri Financial Partners, LLC, to provide financial contributions and services to keep the company operating. Further, we believe that our company may have difficulties raising capital from other sources until we locate a prospective merger candidate through which we can pursue our plan of operation. If we are unable to secure adequate capital to continue our acquisition efforts, our shareholders may lose some or all of their investment and our business may fail. We currently have no written or oral agreement from our majority shareholder to continue to provide financial contributions.

