 Item 1. 

Business 

Overview 

At the forefront of innovation for 45 years, Quad/Graphics is a leading print and marketing services provider focused on helping brand owners market their products, services and content more efficiently and effectively across media channels. The Company was founded in Pewaukee, Wisconsin, as a Wisconsin corporation, in 1971 &#32;by the late Harry V. Quadracci. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company had approximately 22,500 full-time equivalent employees in North America, South America and Europe, and served a diverse base of approximately 9,400 clients from 161 facilities located in 17 countries, as well as strategic investments in printing operations in Brazil and India. 

With a consultative approach, worldwide capabilities, leading-edge technology and single-source simplicity, the Company believes it has the resources and knowledge to help a wide variety of clients in vertical industries including, but not limited to, retail, publishing, healthcare, insurance and financial. Quad/Graphics creates value for its clients by helping them perform better in today's rapidly changing world through the integration of print products with complementary services to improve efficiencies, reduce costs, create engagement, lift response and increase revenue. 

To better serve the evolving needs of marketers and publishers in today's multimedia world, Quad/Graphics streamlined its United States organizational structure in 2015 by consolidating several print product lines into two main sales groups&#8212;Marketing Solutions and Publishing Solutions. The Company believes that this streamlined approach will better align its offerings with its clients' expanding integrated marketing and publishing needs and help drive future innovation. The Company uses a consultative approach to tailor the Company's wide range of print products and complementary services to the unique characteristics of each vertical industry it serves. These products and services include: 

&#8226; 

Print. &#32;&#32;Including retail inserts, publications, catalogs, special interest publications, journals, direct mail, books, directories, in-store marketing and promotion, packaging, newspapers, custom print products, other commercial and specialty printed products and global paper procurement. 

&#8226; 

Logistics. &#32;&#32;Including mailing solutions, postal consultation, delivery optimization and hygiene services, delivery monitoring and tracking, and distribution, logistics and transportation services. 

&#8226; 

Digital. &#32;Including email, social, mobile (activated print, apps, websites), digital publishing and beacon technology. 

&#8226; 

Strategy. &#32;&#32;Including brand, campaign, and media planning and placement. 

&#8226; 

Data. &#32;&#32;Including data insights, segmentation and response analysis. 

&#8226; 

Creative. &#32;&#32;Including concept and design, page layout and production, copywriting, photography, retouching, mobile, video production and optimization. 

&#8226; 

Workflow. &#32;&#32;Including content management, process management, production and facilities management services, color management, and digital file processing and proofing. 

&#32;2 

Quad/Graphics proudly partners with leading marketers, brand owners and publishers: 

&#8226; 

Leading marketers and brand owners include American Eagle Outfitters, American Girl, Best Buy Co., Inc., Bluestem Brands, Charter Communications, Colony Brands, ConAgra Foods, Inc., CVS Health Corporation, Eddie Bauer LLC, Hanesbrands, Inc., Menards, Inc., Mylan N.V., Publishers Clearing House, Inc., Publix Super Markets, Inc., Sprouts Farmers Market, Inc., Tractor Supply Company, Walgreen Co., and Weight Watchers International, Inc. 

&#8226; 

Leading publishers include Cond&#233; Nast, Harlequin Enterprises Limited, Hearst Magazines, hibu plc, McGraw-Hill Education, Meredith Corporation, National Geographic Partners LLC, Rodale Inc., Simon &#38; Schuster, Inc., TEN: The Enthusiast Network LLC, Time Inc., Wenner Media LLC, Yellow Pages Digital and Media Solutions Limited. 

The Company benefits from consistent executive leadership who is committed to transforming the Company to remain relevant and competitive, and create value for shareholders. The Company refers to its transformative journey in chapters. The Company's first chapter covers a period of tremendous organic growth that began with its founding in 1971 &#32;and concluded in 2010. The Company views this chapter as a 40-year period of building a strong and lasting foundation in which Quad/Graphics established the Company's culture based on strong values that are still in place today. During this period, the Company grew rapidly through greenfield growth; built a premier manufacturing and distribution platform equipped with the latest technology; and established its reputation as one of the industry's foremost innovators. When chapter one culminated in 2010, Quad/Graphics had grown from a tiny upstart into a $1.8 billion global provider of print and media solutions with approximately 11,600 employees in the United States, South America and Europe operating 11 domestic plants, plus international locations in Poland, Argentina and Brazil. 

Quad/Graphics' second chapter began in 2010 and continues today. The Company's second chapter relates to its role as a disciplined industry consolidator. Quad/Graphics saw an opportunity to start participating in industry consolidation in response to economic and industry pressures following the great recession of 2008 and 2009, which severely impacted volumes. At the same time, digital and mobile content delivery methods came of age as consumers rushed to adopt new technologies, creating confusion for marketers on how to use print in combination with other channels as part of a multimedia campaign. This created an opportunity for Quad/Graphics&#8212;with manufacturing and distribution economies of scale, a strong balance sheet and access to capital markets&#8212;to take advantage of consolidating acquisition opportunities in order to reduce costs and address overcapacity in the industry. 

The Company completed a number of value-driven industry consolidation opportunities in recent years, including the July 2010 &#32;acquisition of World Color Press Inc. (" World Color Press "), which was a transformative event in the Company's history, as it significantly enhanced Quad/Graphics' size, range of product and service offerings, and overall industry presence. At this time, Quad/Graphics class A common stock began to trade on The New York Stock Exchange, LLC (" NYSE ") under the symbol "QUAD." Other consolidating acquisitions have included Vertis Holdings Inc. (" Vertis ") in January 2013 &#32;and Brown Printing Company (" Brown Printing ") in May 2014 as well as the asset swap with Transcontinental Inc. (" Transcontinental ") in 2011. Through each of these acquisitions, the Company was able to enhance or expand its product offerings, while removing inefficient and underutilized capacity, pulling out costs, and transitioning work to the most efficient facilities. This includes maximizing capacity utilization at the Company's most efficient, flexible and modern mega plant facilities (facilities greater than 1.0 million square feet) that Quad/Graphics built and maintained during chapter one of the Company's transformative journey, as well as plants that were acquired in which Quad/Graphics continues to make strategic investments. 

As the Company transitions from chapter two to chapter three, Quad/Graphics continues to strengthen its core product lines and make the necessary adjustments to quickly respond to ongoing industry pressures, with the goal in chapter three to be the industry's high-quality, low-cost producer to position the Company to take advantage of transformational opportunities. In chapter three, Quad/Graphics will continue to invest in ways to automate and streamline process and workflows to better serve its clients, improve efficiencies and reduce costs. Additionally, with a strategic account focus in key vertical industries, the Company intends to leverage its extensive relationships with more than 9,400 companies to further develop and grow innovative and complementary products and marketing services. The Company believes these products and services will help its clients drive improved performance and Return On 

&#32;3 

Investment ("ROI") on their total marketing spend in two distinct ways: first, through helping them market their products and content more effectively across multiple media channels to increase revenue, and second, through improving efficiencies and speed to market through reducing the overall production and distribution costs. 

In support of Quad/Graphics' chapter three transformational growth strategy, the Company built upon its strength in printing, supply chain management and logistics, and in 2015 expanded its packaging, in-store promotions and marketing services offering. This expansion also supports the Company's strategic selling approach to the retail industry&#8212;a key vertical market for the Company that includes brick and mortar, electronic retail and brand owners&#8212;while also allowing the Company to develop its offerings in growth markets. For example, with the acquisition of Wisconsin-based Proteus Packaging (" Proteus ") in 2013, the Company entered the high-end paperboard packaging market, including automotive, biotechnology, food, beverage, personal care, pharmaceuticals, software and electronics. In addition, on April 14, 2015 , Quad/Graphics completed the acquisition of Copac Global Packaging, Inc. (" Copac ,") a leading international provider of innovative packaging and supply chain solutions, including turnkey packaging design, production and fulfillment services across a range of end markets. Copac has production facilities in Spartanburg, South Carolina, and Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, and strategically sources packaging product manufacturing over multiple end markets in Central America and Asia, giving it a global footprint. Copac manufactures products such as folding cartons, labels, inserts, tags and specialty envelopes in vertical industries including apparel, consumer products, tobacco, healthcare, food and beverage. The Company continued to expand in the packaging market with the acquisition of Specialty Finishing, Inc. (" Specialty ") on August 25, 2015. Specialty is a full-service paperboard folding carton manufacturer and logistics provider located in Omaha, Nebraska, which serves a variety of vertical industries including food, pharmaceutical and industrial supplies. Upon the completion of the Specialty acquisition, the Company rebranded its newly formed division as QuadPackaging to take advantage of this growing market segment. Given its increased scale, vertical expertise and geographic footprint, QuadPackaging is now positioned to compete for large-volume or multi-location clients in a diverse range of vertical industries across the United States, Europe, Asia, and Central and South America. 

In 2015, Quad/Graphics announced the expansion of its existing BlueSoho business, expanding its marketing agency solutions offering into campaign development, shopper activation and mobile/digital programming. The Company believes that BlueSoho will play an important role in defining its path forward in chapter three as it is now uniquely capable of orchestrating cross-media programs that turn shoppers into buyers and buyers into loyal brand advocates. The expanding service set is now comprised of local promotional strategy, conceptual design, media planning and buying, creative development, production services, marketplace deployment and program measurement. This strategic repositioning of BlueSoho as an independent brand enables Quad/Graphics to capture new business, especially among brand owners who understand the benefits of fully orchestrated media execution and actionable brand experiences&#8212;from campaign development through all forms of media activation. 

As part of the Company's focus on in-store promotion growth opportunities, Quad/Graphics announced the acquisition of Marin's International, S.A. (" Marin's ") on February 3, 2015 . Marin's is a worldwide leader in the point-of-sale display industry. Marin's specializes in the research and design of display solutions, and uses its own European-based sales force as well as a network of global licensees, including Quad/Graphics, to sell its patented product portfolio. Marin's enhances Quad/Graphics' existing in-store and large-format marketing promotions and, combined with the power of BlueSoho, Marin's will help the Company expand its ability to help retailers and brand marketers promote their brands as part of a global campaign. 

&#32;4 

As Quad/Graphics continues on its path forward, the Company remains focused on its five primary strategic goals that support its objective to be the industry's high-quality, low-cost producer to position the Company to take advantage of transformational opportunities and drive improved performance through innovation for its clients. The Company believes these goals will allow it to be successful despite ongoing industry challenges. These strategic goals are described in the "Strategy" section of this document and include the following: 

1. 

Strengthen the core; 

2. 

Grow the business profitably; 

3. 

Walk in the shoes of our clients; 

4. 

Engage employees; and 

5. 

Enhance financial strength and create shareholder value. 

More information regarding Quad/Graphics is available on the Company's website at www.QG.com. Quad/Graphics is not including the information contained on or available through its website as part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are made available to the public at no charge through a link appearing on the Company's website. Quad/Graphics provides access to such materials through its website as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC . 

Industry 

The global commercial printing industry is made up of companies whose capabilities include commercial lithographic printing, gravure printing, flexographic printing, screen printing, quick printing, digital printing, business form printing, prepress services that include adjusting images and text and creating high-quality print files, and postpress services, including trade binding. According to the April 2015 Global Commercial Printing &#32;IBISWorld industry report, the global commercial printing industry generates an estimated $708 billion &#32;in annual revenue and has a low level of market share concentration with the four largest players (which includes Quad/Graphics) in the industry accounting for approximately 5% &#32;of annual industry revenue. 

Quad/Graphics operates primarily in the commercial print portion of the printing industry. According to the October 2015 Printing in the U.S. &#32;IBISWorld industry report, the United States commercial printing industry generates an estimated $82 billion &#32;in annual revenue, employs more than 435,000 employees and is comprised of approximately 45,000 companies. The commercial printing industry is also highly fragmented, with the four largest printing companies (which includes Quad/Graphics) accounting for less than 20% &#32;of total commercial print industry annual revenue in the United States. Although there has been significant industry consolidation, particularly in the past decade, the largest 400 printers in the printing industry still only represent approximately just over half of the total industry revenue in the United States, according to the December 2015 Printing Impressions PI400. 

According to the October 2015 Printing in the U.S. IBISWorld industry report, the commercial print industry in the United States services markets including advertising, publishing, retailers, consumer goods manufacturers, stationery and textile manufacturers, financial and legal firms, and wholesalers with capabilities that include the following: 

&#8226; 

Commercial Lithographic Printing. Commercial lithographic printing accounts for approximately 55% &#32;of industry revenue with primary end uses including advertising, publications, periodicals, catalogs, directories, financial and legal printing, and labels and wrappers. 

&#8226; 

Commercial Screen Printing. Commercial screen printing accounts for approximately 9% &#32;of industry revenue and derives its revenue from printing on apparel in addition to revenue from advertisers, label printing, and printing decals. 

&#32;5 

&#8226; 

Commercial Flexographic Printing. Commercial flexographic printing accounts for approximately 8% &#32;of industry revenue and is mainly used for packaging, labels and wrappers. 

&#8226; 

Digital Printing. Digital printing accounts for approximately 7% &#32;of industry revenue and, since it does not require printing plates and requires less initial setup than many of the other forms of commercial printing, it is very cost effective for small print runs. 

&#8226; 

Book Printing. Book printing accounts for approximately 5% &#32;of industry revenue and involves printing and binding books and pamphlets. 

&#8226; 

Commercial Gravure Printing. Commercial gravure printing accounts for approximately 4% &#32;of industry revenue with primary end uses including advertising, catalogs, directories, publications, periodicals, stationery, and labels. 

&#8226; 

Quick Printing. Quick printing accounts for approximately 3% &#32;of industry revenue and is primarily a business-to-business service that is characterized by its short-run printing and fast copying speeds. 

&#8226; 

Other Printing. Other printing accounts for approximately 9% &#32;of industry revenue and includes printing blank books, loose leaf binders and business forms. 

Demand for printed products and related services is affected by real gross domestic product growth, as economic activity and advertising spending are key drivers of consumer demand. In times of global economic uncertainty, advertisers may reduce spending. Magazine publishers, facing diminished advertising pages, reduce total page counts; catalog marketers reduce page counts, circulation and the frequency of print campaigns; retailers curb investments in store inventory and cut back on retail insert circulation and advertising; and other advertisers reduce their direct mail volume, particularly in the banking, insurance, credit card, real estate and nonprofit industries. In addition, the Company believes the commercial print industry has moved toward a demand for shorter print runs, faster product turnaround and increased production efficiency of products with lower page counts and increasing complexity. This, combined with increases in postage expenses (which significantly outpaced inflation over the last ten years) and the increased use of alternative digital marketing technologies have led to excess manufacturing capacity in the industry and this excess capacity has allowed for larger printers with economies of scale, strong balance sheets and access to capital markets the ability to install more efficient equipment, take advantage of consolidating acquisition opportunities to remove excess, inefficient and/or underutilized capacity and reduce overall costs. 

Quad/Graphics believes that traditional business users of print and print-related services are focused on generating and tracking the highest returns on their marketing spend. The Company believes that its clients receive the greatest return on their marketing and advertising dollars when they effectively use data to target the appropriate customers and combine digital alternatives with customized print products in a targeted, cross-channel marketing campaign driven by an overall marketing strategy. Quad/Graphics believes it is well positioned to help its clients navigate through this changing media landscape and create innovative ways to connect print with digital channels. 

Finally, the Company believes that successful commercial printing companies will invest in mailing and logistics capabilities because, for many clients, mailing and distribution represent their largest cost&#8212;typically two to three times the cost of their print expense. Therefore, Quad/Graphics believes a printer's ability to impact mailing and distribution expenses through data hygiene solutions and sophisticated, automated printing, finishing and distribution equipment creates value for clients by minimizing their total manufacturing and distribution cost. 

&#32;6 

Seasonality 

The Company is subject to seasonality in its quarterly results as net sales and operating income are higher in the third &#32;and fourth &#32;quarters of the calendar year as compared to the first &#32;and second &#32;quarters. The fourth quarter is the highest seasonal quarter for cash flows from operating activities and Free Cash Flow due to the reduction of working capital requirements that reach peak levels during the third quarter. Seasonality is driven by increased magazine advertising page counts, retail inserts, catalogs and books primarily due to back-to-school and holiday-related advertising and promotions. The Company expects this seasonality impact to continue in future years. 

Strategy 

As Quad/Graphics continues on its path forward, the Company remains focused on its five primary strategic goals that support its objective to be the industry's high-quality, low-cost producer to fuel transformative growth and drive improved performance through innovation for its clients. The Company believes the following goals will allow it to be successful despite ongoing industry challenges: 

1. 

Strengthen the Core 

Quad/Graphics uses a disciplined return on capital framework and historically has made significant investments in its print manufacturing platform and data management capabilities that have resulted in what it believes is one of the most integrated, automated, efficient and modern manufacturing platforms in the industry. Core or foundational print product lines at Quad/Graphics include retail inserts, publications, catalogs, books and directories, as they represent a large percentage of the Company's revenue. The Company's disciplined focus on maintaining the strength of its core product lines, through investments to streamline, automate and improve efficiencies and throughput while reducing labor, promotes sustainable cash flow and continued value creation. A commitment to Lean Enterprise and a disciplined culture of continuous process improvement is a high priority throughout the Company and supports its goal of strengthening the core product lines to be the industry's high-quality, low-cost producer. 

Quad/Graphics believes that its national distribution network is also a key attribute in its ability to strengthen the core foundation of the Company. Quad/Graphics has made strategic capital expenditures and information technology (" IT ") investments to build what it believes is one of the most efficient and innovative distribution networks in the commercial printing industry. The Company's goal, and an integral component of how Quad/Graphics creates client value, is to maintain and utilize a fully integrated, national distribution network to help mitigate rising postage costs for its clients by minimizing their total cost of production and distribution. 

Quad/Graphics also strengthens the core of the Company through a dedicated focus on having the right people in the right roles at the right time. The Company benefits from leadership consistency and longevity with senior executives having decades of print industry experience, which gives them valuable knowledge and perspective. The Company also continues to enhance its leadership team, bringing aboard complementary, experienced talent who can immediately contribute to advancing the Company's goals. 

2. 

Grow the Business Profitably 

The Company believes it is well positioned to grow the business profitably. Key components of this strategy are centered on the Company's ability to grow through ongoing innovation, organic growth and disciplined acquisitions. Innovation takes many different forms at Quad/Graphics. From a client perspective, Quad/Graphics believes that marketing today has been upended due to the proliferation of digital media which has increased complexity and created a crisis in measurement given that many client organizational structures are siloed by media channel expertise. This marketing shift has created an opportunity for both Quad/Graphics and its clients to innovate and create enhanced value. The Company believes that no channel is an island; each influences and impacts the other. Quad/Graphics also believes that print delivers high levels of marketing &#32; ROI, especially when used in combination with other media channels. As supported by the November 2015 InfoTrends study Micro to Mega: Trends in Business Communications , using multiple media channels yields a better response rate for integrated marketing campaigns. Specifically, marketers reported an 

&#32;7 

average improvement of 28% in response rate when adding email, social media, and mobile application channels to their print campaigns. 

The Company leverages knowledge from existing client relationships in key vertical industries to drive innovation and the development of complementary products and services that help brand owners market their products, services and content more efficiently and effectively across media channels. The Company is focused on ensuring it has the right talent in the best positions to have strategic marketing conversations with its clients to define their needs, develop tailored solutions and grow market share. Clients benefit from improved performance and ROI on their marketing spend through better reach and end-user engagement, improved response and increased revenue derived from these cross-channel marketing programs. 

From a manufacturing platform perspective, innovation drives the Company's ability to help its clients precisely segment and target their audience to deliver relevant content, ads and offers. Through advanced variable printing capabilities and data management solutions, the Company can provide relevant content to encourage one-to-one end consumer connection and reader engagement. Innovation through automation in the manufacturing platform also allows Quad/Graphics to improve productivity and reduce costs in support of the Company's long standing commitment to be the industry's high-quality, low-cost producer. 

Another key attribute of this strategy is the Company's ability to grow the business through compelling, ongoing platform investments that drive profitable organic growth and productivity in the Company's current business, as well as using a disciplined approach to execute on acquisitions that help the Company transition into chapter three of its journey. This includes pursuing growth opportunities that will help transform an existing product line, or expand Quad/Graphics' business into higher growth product and service categories that are a logical extension of its core print product lines. The Company also believes that additional value-driven industry consolidation opportunities will create measurable value through the addition of complementary capabilities, allowing the Company to provide an enhanced range of products and services, and create significant efficiencies in the overall print production and distribution processes. 

3. 

Walk in the Shoes of our Clients 

Quad/Graphics believes that every client, regardless of size, is the most important client. A key component of Quad/Graphics' client-facing strategy is to strengthen relationships at different levels inside a client's organization so the Company can better understand, anticipate and exceed the client's needs&#8212;sometimes before the client even knows it has a need. The Company's goal is to become an invaluable strategic partner to its clients&#8212;a partner who is focused on helping each client successfully navigate today's changing media landscape. While Quad/Graphics has dedicated sales, sales service and customer service representatives, the Company reinforces that all employees, regardless of job title, are part of the Quad/Graphics' client experience team. As such, all employees are responsible for meeting the needs of its clients every day, making it easy to do work with Quad/Graphics, and making the client experience enjoyable at every touchpoint. Quad/Graphics believes its strategy to walk in the shoes of our clients helps all employees focus on the client experience at all touchpoints throughout its end-to-end process to improve client satisfaction and create loyalty to the Quad/Graphics brand. The Company also believes its proactive thought leadership in the key issues facing clients&#8212;such as cross-channel marketing and postal reform&#8212;will create value and deepen client relationships. 

4. 

Engage Employees 

Quad/Graphics' strategy to engage employees builds on key aspects of its distinct corporate culture, including an organization-wide entrepreneurial spirit and opportunity-seeking mentality where employees are encouraged to take pride and ownership in their work; take advantage of continuous learning, apprentice and job-advancement opportunities; share knowledge by mentoring others; and innovate solutions. With the encouragement to do things differently&#8212;and find a better way&#8212;the Company believes its employees are more fully engaged in producing better results for clients and the local communities surrounding its facilities, and advancing the Company's strategic goals. 

&#32;8 

The Company believes one of the most important ways it can drive employee engagement is by acting on a continuous employee feedback loop. Quad/Graphics believes in transparent and regular two-way communication with employees. The Company provides the opportunity for all employees to have a voice or share an opinion through a number of different channels including surveys and open forums at Company town hall and department meetings. The Company then demonstrates its commitment to their engagement by maintaining a safe work environment while implementing programs and policies that address their needs and/or suggestions. At the same time, the Company consistently reinforces the Company's long-standing eight core values that drive how the Company operates: Believe in People, Do the Right Thing, Trust in Trust, Innovate, Grow, Make Money, Have Fun, and Do Things for the Rose (i.e., do things for the sake of excellence). 

5. 

Enhance Financial Strength and Create Shareholder Value 

Quad/Graphics follows a disciplined approach to maintaining and enhancing financial strength to create shareholder value, which is essential given ongoing industry challenges. This key strategic goal is centered on the Company's ability to maximize Free Cash Flow, net earnings and EBITDA; maintain consistent financial policies to ensure a strong balance sheet and liquidity level; and retain the financial flexibility needed to strategically allocate and deploy capital as circumstances change. 

The priorities for capital allocation and deployment are adjusted based on prevailing circumstances and what the Company thinks is best for shareholder value creation at any particular point in time. Those priorities currently include the following: (1) deleveraging the Company's balance sheet through debt and pension liability reductions; (2) making compelling investments that drive profitable organic growth and productivity in the Company's current business, as well as executing on acquisitions through a disciplined approach that includes expansion into higher-growth products and services that are complementary to its core product and service lines, and pursuing value-driven industry consolidation; and (3) returning capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. 

Competitive Advantages 

Quad/Graphics believes its success has been fueled by a number of key competitive advantages that drive its five primary strategic goals. These competitive advantages are an efficient, flexible and modern manufacturing platform; vertically integrated non-print capabilities; a client-centric approach; leading mailing and distribution capabilities; a commitment to ongoing innovation and rapid adoption of technology with a focus on execution and influencing media spend for its clients; a disciplined and consistent financial approach; a well-defined integration process; and a distinct corporate culture that empowers and engages employees to think and act like owners to drive business results. 

Efficient, Flexible and Modern Manufacturing Platform 

The Company has continuously invested in its manufacturing platform through modern equipment and automation that allow for more pages to be printed for each revolution of the press, reducing the amount of time that each individual printing job takes to complete. In addition, the Company's long-standing commitment to invest in its manufacturing platform to create productivity improvements has led to more automation designed to reduce labor costs, maximize labor productivity and increase throughput. The Company's investment in its manufacturing platform has consistently been based on evaluating the useful economic life of the underlying equipment rather than focusing on the potential mechanical life of the equipment. This discipline is critical in an industry in which technological change can create obsolescence well before the end of the mechanical life of equipment. 

Another key aspect of the Company's modern manufacturing platform is the combination of its footprint of mega plants (facilities greater than 1.0 million square feet) that produce a number of different products under one roof; mega zones where multiple facilities in close geographic proximity are managed as one large facility; and smaller strategically located facilities. The Company has continued to evolve its platform, equipping facilities to be product line agnostic, which enables the Company to maximize equipment utilization. Quad/Graphics believes that the large plant size of certain of its key printing facilities allows the Company to drive savings in certain product lines (such as magazines and catalogs) due to efficiencies of scale and from investments in automation and technology. Complementing its mega plant and mega zone footprints are smaller facilities, strategically located closer to final 

&#32;9 

distribution points for expedited delivery. This allows clients greater deadline flexibility for adjusting content or marketing strategy, especially for commercial products, direct mail and retail inserts. The Company's platform provides it with the flexibility to meet complex customer service requirements, such as quick turns for time-sensitive material, or when weather patterns threaten production or delivery in a specific area of the country. 

To achieve its goal to be the industry's high-quality, low-cost producer, Quad/Graphics makes a concerted effort to treat all costs as variable and maintains a stringent focus on achieving productivity improvements and sustainable cost reductions through a variety of continuous improvement programs in both manufacturing and administrative areas. The Company believes it is making progress toward this goal by remaining focused on the following: 

&#8226; 

the implementation of sustainable reductions in non-labor and indirect labor spending areas; 

&#8226; 

a disciplined approach to improving capacity utilization and productivity across the entire platform; and 

&#8226; 

a focused effort to take out direct costs through a variety of means, including the maximization of labor mix and the expansion of continuous improvement programs to reduce waste, eliminate redundancies and shorten cycle times. 

Vertically Integrated Non-Print Capabilities 

Quad/Graphics has a long history of finding a better way to do business. This approach to business gives the Company a competitive advantage in reducing costs and creating efficiencies for its clients and employees. Vertically-integrated non-print capabilities&#8212;such as data management, imaging, logistics and distribution, ink manufacturing, paper procurement, equipment research and design, and health and wellness&#8212;assist the Company in delivering lower costs for its clients, enhancing customer service levels, allowing substantial control over critical links in the overall print supply chain (such as the Company's ink manufacturing capabilities which help it control the quality, cost and availability of a key input in the printing process), increasing flexibility and providing more aggregated services to each client. 

Chemical Research\Technology ("CR\T") is the ink manufacturing subsidiary of Quad/Graphics. With CR\T, Quad/Graphics is one of the largest ink manufacturers in the United States, and the only United States commercial printer that produces its own inks. Quad/Graphics founded CR\T in 1982 to formulate and manufacture its own special blend of inks based on extensive experience working directly with the Company's press operators. The benefits of manufacturing its own inks include better management of the quality and consistency of the product, a better yield per pound of ink, and increased raw materials purchasing power. 

Quad/Graphics has been dedicated to research and development to improve its print manufacturing platform for more than 35 years. The Company's research and development designers and systems engineers work closely with the Company's press and finishing operators and IT professionals, and over the years have developed a range of advancements that the Company's management believes puts its print platform at the forefront of print innovation. The value of these innovations to the industry is supported by the fact that these technology solutions are sold by the Company's QuadTech subsidiary to equipment manufacturers and other printers in the commercial, newspaper and packaging printing industries. 

Outside of print, Quad/Graphics successfully integrates health and wellness for all employees through the Company's QuadMed subsidiary, which specializes in employer-sponsored health care solutions. QuadMed was founded in 1990 to address the Company's own employees' needs for quality, cost-effective primary care. In 2013, QuadMed acquired Novia CareClinics, LLC (" Novia "), and today provides workplace solutions on a national level to employers of all sizes, including private and public sector companies. These services include 82 on-site and near-site primary care clinics, telemedicine, and comprehensive health and wellness programs. 

&#32;10 

Client-Centric Approach 

Throughout its 45-year history, Quad/Graphics has put its partnership with clients at the center of its operations, creating solutions clients need to meet their business objectives. Quad/Graphics has made a concerted effort to hire talent with client-side experience who can provide unique insights into how the client operates and where they may be experiencing a marketing challenge the Company can help solve. To better serve the evolving needs of marketers and publishers in today's multimedia world, Quad/Graphics streamlined its United States organization in 2015 by consolidating several print product lines into two main sales groups&#8212;Marketing Solutions and Publishing Solutions. The Company believes that this streamlined approach will better align its offerings with its clients' expanding integrated marketing and publishing needs and help drive future innovation. The Company uses a consultative approach to tailor its wide range of print products and complementary services to the unique characteristics of each vertical industry it serves. This consultative approach includes the following: 

&#8226; 

leveraging its integrated data analytics, finishing technology and logistics operations, which allow clients to create and track customized and relevant communications across channels on a cost-effective basis, with the objective of delivering higher response rates at a lower cost; 

&#8226; 

consulting with clients on marketing strategies to integrate personalized, targeted print communications (including in-store signage and point-of-purchase displays), with other media channels including mobile, email, the Web, tablets and e-readers, video and social media to drive higher response rates; 

&#8226; 

improving the cost-effectiveness of local advertising investments through an improved understanding of customers' shopping behavior, messaging preferences and media consumption habits; 

&#8226; 

developing workflow solutions to help clients streamline content management across multiple channels; 

&#8226; 

deploying its interactive media capabilities, including planning, executing and monitoring interactive print campaigns, email, personalized URLs, mobile solutions and digital editions, and creating and maintaining microsites in support of effective, cross-channel marketing campaigns to connect print with mobile technologies&#8212;such as smartphones and tablets&#8212;to create compelling calls to action that drive business results; and 

&#8226; 

continuing to invest in leading-edge technologies and capabilities to ensure it can provide the most desirable and effective cross-channel solutions to marketers and publishers as technologies and user preferences change. 

Quad/Graphics' "high tech/high touch" approach has led to what the Company believes is an excellent client service reputation. The Company uses the latest technology and tools to better connect clients with employees and employees with each other. Its own brand of Smartools&#174; not only link the Company's people and equipment across its entire network of plants, but extend to the Company's clients as well, creating true, real-time communications integration. For example, the Company's Smartools&#174; provide clients with access to the very same up-to-the-minute information used by the Company's production, customer service and sales representatives, allowing them to better manage current projects and plan future work. 

Quad/Graphics pays particularly close attention to listening to what its clients say about the Company, proactively seeking their input through the annual Quad/Graphics Performance Client Survey. The survey provides sound insights on clients' experience with the Company as well as ways to enhance products, services and overall value. Key concerns are addressed by a Senior Executive Team led by the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, demonstrating the Company's top-down commitment to client satisfaction. Based on survey results, the Company has worked on a series of initiatives to streamline and simplify internal processes to address known pain points; share more information about its expanded product and service offering via a newly launched website (QG.com), including a focus on its expertise in meeting the needs of specific vertical industries; and provide clients with peer networking and thought leadership opportunities in the key issues facing clients such as cross-channel marketing challenges and postal reform issues. In 2015, the Company held a two-day marketing thought leadership conference where it brought together leading 

&#32;11 

marketers and publishers from a diverse group of industries for learning and networking opportunities. The Company's event featured keynote presentations, small group discussions, working breakout sessions and real stories from the front lines of cross-channel marketing. Quad/Graphics' 2015 Postal Conference connected United States Postal Service (" USPS ") officials, key Congressional staff and client leadership responsible for circulation, production and marketing with a unique opportunity to share information, and discuss today's most pressing postal issues. Participants took away knowledge to help their business and advance postal regulation and legislation for a sustainable USPS . 

Leading Mailing and Distribution Capabilities 

Quad/Graphics creates targeted and personalized printed materials for its clients, which helps its clients increase consumer response rates, maximize their return on print spending and reduce overall costs. Quad/Graphics uses its in-data capabilities to analyze mail list data, demographic data, consumer transaction data and other consumer-specific data to help its clients target consumers through personalized printed materials. Personalization and targeting create the opportunity to reach the right recipients with the right (or relevant) message at the right time. The Company believes that integrating its analysis of mail list data with its logistics services allows it to reduce client freight costs for shipments to newsstands and postal centers, while providing a high level of dependability and rapid response times that are crucial to the delivery of time-sensitive materials. Further, the Company uses a national consolidation network to combine like-destination freight to maximize cost-effectiveness. 

Postal rates are a significant component of many clients' cost structures, and Quad/Graphics believes that postal costs influence the number of pieces that its clients print and mail. The Company has invested significantly in its mail preparation and distribution capabilities to offset increasing postage costs, and to help clients successfully navigate the ever-changing postal environment. Through its data analytics, unique software to merge mailstreams on a large scale, advanced finishing capabilities and technology, and in-house transportation and logistics operations, the Company manages the mail preparation and distribution of most of its clients' products to maximize efficiency and reduce these costs. The Company helps its United States clients reduce their overall postage costs through what it believes, based on information published by or otherwise made available from its competitors, is the industry's largest co-mail program. The Company's co-mail program involves the sorting and bundling of printed products to be mailed to consumers, in order to facilitate better integration with USPS . The USPS &#32;offers significant work-sharing discounts for this sorting, bundling and drop-shipping to more than 300 USPS &#32;postal processing centers as it reduces handling by the USPS . By combining the products of multiple clients in the mailstream, the Company leverages the volume from participating clients, regardless of the production facility, to achieve USPS &#32;discounts for their benefit. Quad/Graphics co-mailed approximately 5.4 billion &#32;magazines, catalogs and direct marketing pieces in 2015. Quad/Graphics estimates that the Company's clients saved an estimated $260 million in 2015 through the Company's co-mailing programs. 

Quad/Graphics is also able to leverage the volume of products running through its plants for further client distribution savings by coordinating and consolidating shipments from single mega plants or multiple plants that create a mega zone, and then routing those shipments directly to thousands of local newspapers, USPS processing facilities or other distribution facilities. In addition, each major United States metropolitan area is within one day's drive of at least one of the Company's strategically located facilities, providing its clients the flexibility to print closest to their end consumers. 

Commitment to Ongoing Innovation and Rapid Adoption of Technology with a Focus on Execution and Influencing Media Spend for Its Clients 

Over the last five years, Quad/Graphics has invested an average of 3% of its annual net sales for capital expenditures. This investment has resulted in what the Company believes is one of the most advanced and efficient platforms in the industry and has allowed the Company to reduce the amount invested in recent years without impacting its leading technological excellence. The Company has had a continued commitment to research and development, platform maintenance, manufacturing process improvements and the rapid adoption of technological innovations. For example, in early 2015 the Company announced a three-year plan to transform some of its platform from conventional web offset presses to modern digital presses that will give marketers and publishers a full range of options to produce and deliver relevant direct mail, book and other commercial products faster and more cost-effectively. Another example of Quad/Graphics' innovative approach is the integration of its imaging, manufacturing and distribution networks into a 

&#32;12 

single platform using a networked IT infrastructure. This platform&#8212;connected via Quad/Graphics' own Smartools&#174;&#8212;provides seamless, real-time information flow across sales and estimating, production planning, scheduling, manufacturing, warehousing, logistics, invoicing, reporting and customer service. 

From a client-facing technology perspective, Quad/Graphics believes it is at the forefront of the printing industry with creating and/or rapidly adopting services that help marketers and publishers drive improved performance and ROI on their marketing spend. In 2015, Quad/Graphics announced the expansion of its existing BlueSoho business, expanding its marketing agency solutions offering into campaign development, shopper activation and mobile/digital programming. The Company believes that BlueSoho will play an important role in defining its path forward as it is now uniquely capable of orchestrating cross-media programs that turn shoppers into buyers and buyers into loyal brand advocates. The expanding service set is now comprised of local promotional strategy, conceptual design, media planning and buying, creative development, production services, marketplace deployment and program measurement. This strategic repositioning of BlueSoho as an independent brand enables Quad/Graphics to capture new business, especially among brand owners who understand the benefits of fully orchestrated media execution and actionable brand experiences&#8212;from campaign development through all forms of media activation. 

Data supports the Company's belief that marketers will continue to use a multichannel approach. The November 2015 InfoTrends study Micro to Mega: Trends in Business Communications &#32;found that utilizing multiple media channels yielded a better response rate for marketing campaigns. Specifically, marketers reported an average improvement of 28% in response rate when adding email, social media, and mobile application channels to their print campaigns. 

The Company has long believed that print possesses the unique ability to create an emotional connection with consumers and readers that promotes engagement and response. Data supports the Company&#8217;s belief that print works. According to the December 2015 InfoTrends study Direct Marketing Production Printing &#38; Value-Added Services: A Strategy for Growth , 62% of consumers receiving printed catalogs that made a purchase within the last three months were influenced by the catalog. Furthermore, the study found that two-thirds of direct mail is opened and more than 40% of consumers have made a purchase in the last three months because of a piece of direct mail they received. 

Quad/Graphics also conducts an annual quantitative research study, Customer Focus &#174; &#8482; , which provides consumer views on singular and integrated media usage via an extensive survey. For example, the 2015 Customer Focus &#174; study found that 60% of United States adults use retail inserts to find sales, coupons or promotions, and 65% of United States adults want to receive direct mail that is personalized with customized offers based on needs, interests and purchase history. The survey reveals the unique characteristics of special demographic, generational, gender and socio-economic groups and how they consume advertising and marketing messaging, and their attitudes and engagement preferences in a number of industry segments. The Company's clients use these insights to validate current marketing strategies and form strategies for new programs. Further, when coupled with third-party persona data sources, Customer Focus &#174; provides the Company's clients with a basis for segmentation, creative and messaging relevancy, regardless of delivery channel. 

This active response to print has influenced magazines publishers to increase usage of custom product covers to enhance reader engagement and retailers who primarily use digital channels, such as online-only retailers, or electronic-retailers, to incorporate print into their marketing strategy. In the past 24 months, the Company has assisted more than 40 electronic retail clients to mail printed catalogs or direct mail for the first time. Of these clients, 95% continue to market with print and more than 50% have increased page count, circulation or delivery frequency. 

&#32;13 

Disciplined and Consistent Financial Approach 

As a controlled public company, Quad/Graphics enjoys the competitive advantage of remaining under the leadership and control of the founder's family. The Quadracci family has had consistent control over the Company's operations and decision-making process since its founding in 1971, which allows for a longer-term strategic view with stability of leadership and strategic vision and deployment. As of February 18, 2016 , the Quadracci family retains approximately 80% &#32;voting control of the Company through the ownership of high-vote stock. This leadership and voting control structure enables the Company to manage the Company's strategy and financial policy by having the foresight to make decisions today that could impact the Company years from now and avoiding the pitfalls of short-term decision-making that could potentially jeopardize the stability and longevity of the Company. 

Quad/Graphics believes that its disciplined financial approach of focusing on maximizing earnings and Free Cash Flow, and maintaining a strong balance sheet provides a competitive advantage. Continuous Improvement and Lean Manufacturing methodologies are among the tools that Quad/Graphics uses to improve manufacturing productivity and to ultimately maximize operating margins. The Company applies these same methodologies to its selling, general and administrative functions to create a truly Lean Enterprise. Additionally, Quad/Graphics has a culture of continuous cost reduction that includes minimizing waste, increasing efficiencies and throughput, and simplifying and streamlining processes. The Company has been working diligently to lower its cost structure by consolidating its manufacturing platform into its most efficient facilities, as well as realizing purchasing, mailing and logistics efficiencies by centralizing and consolidating print manufacturing volumes and eliminating redundancies in its administrative and corporate operations. Quad/Graphics believes that its focused efforts to be the high-quality, low-cost producer generates increased Free Cash Flow and allows the Company to maintain a strong balance sheet through debt and pension liability reductions. The Company's disciplined financial approach also allows it to maintain sufficient liquidity as well as to reduce refinancing risk, with the nearest significant maturity not occurring until April 2019. 

The Company takes a very disciplined approach to its capital allocation decisions. A key part of this discipline is a goal of having ROI exceed the cost of capital, whether the investments are related to purchasing the right equipment or investing in the right strategic growth initiatives. The Company balances the use of cash between deleveraging the balance sheet through debt and pension liability reductions; making compelling investment opportunities; or returning cash back to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. 

When reviewing an investment opportunity, such as a consolidating acquisition, Quad/Graphics uses a disciplined, value-driven approach to ensure the following criteria are met before any opportunity is selected: 

&#8226; 

Strategic Fit. &#32;The Company conducts a thorough review process to ensure a potential acquisition will be a good strategic fit. 

&#8226; 

Economics Make Sense. &#32;&#32;The Company ensures that the economics make sense and will create value through an enhanced range of products and services, revenue-generating solutions and increased efficiencies. Key economics include the negotiated purchase price, targeted efficiencies from integrating the companies together and the necessary cost to achieve those synergies. 

&#8226; 

Executable Integration Plan. &#32;&#32;The Company makes certain that the integration plan is executable in a timely manner and without risk of significant client disruption. The Company has a holistic approach to integration and measures success with four key elements: financial metrics, client retention and satisfaction, employee integration, and IT and platform integration. 

&#8226; 

Balance Sheet Integrity. &#32;&#32;The Company ensures that post-acquisition, it retains the financial strength and flexibility it had prior to the acquisition. 

&#32;14 

Well-Defined Integration Process 

As Quad/Graphics has grown through acquisitions, it has refined its integration process, creating what it believes to be a very well-defined and disciplined approach. The Company's integration process puts a strong focus on serving clients well&#8212;minimizing disruption and maximizing retention&#8212;while improving the efficiency and productivity of its platform to drive cost savings. The Company does not simply "bolt on" its acquisitions, leaving them to operate independently and overlooking the opportunities to eliminate redundancies and improve efficiencies. Rather, it seeks to fully integrate the business. Following an integration, Quad/Graphics takes a holistic approach to measuring success, considering client retention and satisfaction, employee integration, IT &#32;and platform integration and financial metrics. The Company uses the knowledge gained to improve future integration processes and has applied the same discipline to manage cost reduction initiatives through the Company's Project Management Office. 

Given that integrating corporate cultures is one of the most complex and important efforts following an acquisition, the Company puts a strong focus on it. Looking specifically at employee integration efforts, Quad/Graphics spends time helping new employees understand Company culture, including how it runs the business and the values system that drives decision-making and conduct. As necessary, new employees in management and supervisory roles participate in a training program that helps them develop a deeper understanding of the organization and resources. 

Distinct Corporate Culture 

Quad/Graphics believes that its distinct corporate culture, which evolved from a core set of values conceived by the late founder Harry V. Quadracci, drives thoughtful decision-making, especially with regard to how it manages operations and creates solutions that redefine print in a multichannel media landscape, and better positions the Company to prevail in the dynamic and competitive printing industry. The Company fosters an entrepreneurial environment by inspiring and empowering employees to own projects and enact solutions that advance the Company's goals. Employees in the United States also may have a beneficial ownership interest in the Company through company stock held in an employee stock ownership plan, enhancing their sense of ownership. The Company believes that the empowerment, engagement and development of its employee owners foster a strong partnership approach within the business that delivers results. 

To maintain a culture of employee empowerment, the Company helps employees keep current on skills through education and training programs offered on the job and in the classroom. Continuous Improvement classes include Lean Enterprise and Six Sigma training, designed to empower both production and administrative employees to find better ways to do their jobs and improve department and Company performance. Safety initiatives include regular safety huddles and quizzes to discuss safe work conduct and promote a safety mindset, as well as on-site safety classes, including first-responder training. The Company also maintains what it believes to be the industry's premier management training program, also known as the Corporate Training Program, which attracts capable, inspired next-generation talent as well as experienced, ready-to-contribute second-career talent. 

Quad/Graphics further invests in its employees by providing personal improvement classes, financial and retirement planning and comprehensive health and wellness benefits. Through its own network of QuadMed primary care clinics located at larger worksite locations, and combined with advanced telemedicine systems, the Company provides high-quality primary medical care and specialty services to employees and their families at a low cost. The Company demonstrates its commitment to wellness through onsite fitness centers at a number of printing plant locations, as well as by offering smoking cessation, weight-management and nutrition classes among other wellness-related programs; providing employee assistance program counseling services; and developing its own programs with financial incentives for managing chronic conditions such as diabetes and asthma (known as Well You ) and promoting healthy lifestyles. QuadMed also sells this business model of healthcare services to third-party businesses. 

&#32;15 

The Company has a number of programs designed to attract next-generation talent while retaining and engaging existing, valued employees. These programs include "Think Smalls," a small-group gathering outside of work hours to strengthen co-worker relationships and provide a forum for meaningful business discussion; an industry years of service recognition program; and financial and volunteer support in the communities where employees live and work. These programs are part of the Company's "Quad Proud" campaign that recognizes individual employee contributions to the Company's collective success while never forgetting the importance of being a Quad/Graphics team member, which includes the obligation to mentor the next generation of employees. 

Quad/Graphics is led by an experienced management team with a proven track record in the printing industry that is committed to preserving the Company's values-based culture. The senior management team includes individuals with long tenure with the Company augmented with seasoned industry talent realized through strategic hiring or recent acquisitions, further supported by managers and employees committed to advancing print solutions in coordination with the ever-evolving multichannel media landscape. The Company believes the experience and stability of senior management, paired with next-generation entrepreneurially minded employees, will contribute to its long-term success as it continues on its path forward. 

Segment Description 

Quad/Graphics operates primarily in the commercial print portion of the printing industry, with related product and service offerings designed to offer clients complete solutions for communicating their message to target audiences. The Company's operating and reportable segments are aligned with how the chief operating decision maker of the Company currently manages the business. The Company's reportable and operating segments and their product and service offerings are summarized below: 

United States Print and Related Services 

The United States Print and Related Services segment is predominantly comprised of the Company's United States printing operations and is managed as one integrated platform. This includes retail inserts, publications, catalogs, special interest publications, journals, direct mail, books, directories, in-store marketing and promotion, packaging, newspapers, custom print products, other commercial and specialty printed products and global paper procurement, together with complementary service offerings, including marketing strategy, media planning and placement, data insights, segmentation and response analytics services, creative services, videography, photography, workflow solutions, digital imaging, facilities management services, digital publishing, interactive print solutions including image recognition and near field communication technology, mailing, distribution, logistics, and data optimization and hygiene services. This segment also includes the manufacture of ink. The United States Print and Related Services segment accounted for approximately 92% , 91% &#32;and 90% &#32;of Quad/Graphics' consolidated net sales in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

International 

The International segment consists of the Company's printing operations in Europe and Latin America, including operations in England, France, Germany, Poland, Argentina, Colombia, Mexico and Peru, as well as strategic investments in printing operations in Brazil and India. This segment provides printed products and complementary service offerings consistent with the United States Print and Related Services segment. The International segment accounted for approximately 8% , 9% &#32;and 10% &#32;of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

&#32;16 

Corporate 

Corporate consists of unallocated general and administrative activities and associated expenses including, in part, executive, legal and finance. In addition, in 2014 and 2015 certain expenses and income from frozen employee retirement plans, such as pension and postretirement benefit plans, are included in Corporate and not allocated to the operating segment. 

For additional financial information by segment and geographic area, see Note 22 , " Segment Information ," and Note 23 , " Geographic Area and Product Information ," to the consolidated financial statements, respectively, in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a discussion of the risks attendant to the Company's foreign operations, see the risk factor titled "There are risks associated with the Company's operations outside of the United States" in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Competition 

The printing industry, with approximately 45,000 companies in the United States, is highly fragmented and competitive. The four largest printing companies account for less than 20% &#32;of total commercial print industry annual revenue in the United States, with Quad/Graphics being the second largest. Although there has been significant industry consolidation, particularly in the past decade, the largest 400 printers in the printing industry still only represent just over half of the total industry revenue in the United States, according to the December 2015 Printing Impressions PI400. According to the October 2015 Printing in the U.S. &#32;IBISWorld industry report, the majority of commercial printers in the United States are privately owned and generate, on average, less than $35 million in annual revenue and approximately 70% of firms operating in the industry have fewer than 10 employees. 

In addition to being in a highly fragmented industry, the Company also faces competition due to the increased accessibility and quality of digital alternatives to traditional delivery of printed documents through the online distribution and hosting of media content, and the digital distribution of documents and data. In addition, the Company faces competition from print management firms, which look to streamline processes and reduce the overall print spend of the Company's clients, as well as from strategic marketing firms focused on helping businesses integrate multiple channels into their marketing campaigns. 

Across Quad/Graphics' range of products and services, competition is based on a number of factors, including the following: 

&#8226; 

total price of printing, materials and distribution; 

&#8226; 

quality; 

&#8226; 

range of services offered, including the ability to provide multichannel marketing campaigns; 

&#8226; 

marketing expertise; 

&#8226; 

distribution capabilities; 

&#8226; 

customer service; 

&#8226; 

access to a highly skilled workforce; 

&#8226; 

availability to schedule work on appropriate equipment; 

&#8226; 

on-time production and delivery; and 

&#8226; 

state-of-the-art technology to meet a client's business objectives, including the ability to adopt new technology quickly. 

&#32;17 

Clients 

Quad/Graphics enjoys long-standing relationships with a diverse base of clients, which includes both national and regional corporations in North America, South America, Europe and Asia. The Company's clients include industry-leading blue chip companies that operate in a wide range of industries and serve both businesses and consumers, including retailers, publishers and direct marketers. The Company's relationships with its largest clients average more than 19 years in duration. 

In 2015 , Quad/Graphics served approximately 9,400 clients, and its 10 largest clients accounted for approximately 15% of consolidated sales, with none representing more than 5% &#32;individually. The Company believes that its large and diverse client base, broad geographic coverage and extensive range of printing and print-related capabilities are competitive strengths. 

Patents, Trademarks and Trade Names 

Quad/Graphics operates research and development facilities that support the development of new equipment, process improvements, raw materials and content management, and distribution technologies to better meet client needs and improve operating efficiencies. The Company continues to innovate within the printing and print-related industry and, as a result, has developed what it believes to be one of the most powerful patent portfolios in the print industry. 

Quad/Graphics currently holds or has rights to commercialize a wide variety of worldwide patents and applications relating to its business. The Company intends to continue to file patent applications that it believes will help ensure the continued strength of the Company and its portfolio. Additionally, the Company markets products, services and capabilities under a number of trademarks and trade names. Quad/Graphics aggressively defends its intellectual property rights and intends to continue to do so in the future. 

Raw Materials 

The primary raw materials that Quad/Graphics uses in its print business are paper, ink and energy. At this time, the Company's supply of raw materials is readily available from numerous vendors; however, based on market conditions, that could change in the future. The Company generally buys these raw materials based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the procurement process. 

The majority of paper used by the Company is supplied directly by its clients. For those clients that do not directly supply their own paper, the Company makes use of its purchasing efficiencies to supply paper by negotiating with leading paper vendors, uses a wide variety of paper grades, weights and sizes, and does not rely on any one vendor. In addition, the Company generally includes price adjustment clauses in sales contracts for paper and other critical raw materials in the printing process. Although these clauses generally mitigate paper price risk, higher paper prices and tight paper supplies may have an impact on client demand for printed products. The Company's working capital requirements, including the impact of seasonality, are partially mitigated through the direct purchasing of paper by its clients. 

The Company produces the majority of ink used in its print production, allowing it to control the quality, cost and supply of key inputs. Raw materials for the ink manufacturing process are purchased externally from a variety of vendors. 

The Company generally cannot pass on to clients the impact of higher electric and natural gas energy prices on its manufacturing costs, and increases in energy prices result in higher manufacturing costs for certain of its operations. The Company mitigates its risk through natural gas hedges when appropriate. In its logistic operations, however, the Company is able to pass a substantial portion of any increase in fuel prices directly to its clients. 

&#32;18 

Environmental Stewardship 

As the owner, lessee or operator of various real properties and facilities, Quad/Graphics is subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions; waste generation, handling, management and disposal; sanitary and storm water discharge; and remediation of contaminated sites. Historically, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations may require the Company to make future expenditures. 

Quad/Graphics strives to be the leader in the printing industry in adopting new technologies and processes to minimize the Company's impact on the environment. The Company believes it has long been known for its environmental stewardship. Quad/Graphics' proactive approach to incorporate holistic practices has also positively impacted operating costs through the reduction of waste, energy use, emissions, as well as through the implementation of water conservation solutions. The Company has also undertaken steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from its manufacturing processes and to improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions in its fleet of Company-owned tractor trailers. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , Quad/Graphics had approximately 22,500 full-time equivalent employees in North America, South America, Europe and Asia. Within the United States, there were approximately 19,600 &#32;full-time equivalent employees of which approximately 800 &#32;were covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Outside of the United States, there were approximately 2,900 full-time equivalent employees, of which approximately 1,300 &#32;were either governed by agreements that apply industry-wide, by a collective bargaining agreement or through works councils or similar arrangements. Quad/Graphics believes that its employee relations are good and that the Company maintains an employee-centric culture. 

Business Acquisitions 

The following is a listing of the Company's 2015 acquisition activity. For additional information related to the Company's acquisition activity, see Note 2 , " Acquisitions and Strategic Investments ," to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#8226; 

The Company completed the acquisition of Specialty , a full-service paperboard folding carton manufacturer and logistics provider located in Omaha, Nebraska, on August 25, 2015 . 

&#8226; 

The Company completed the acquisition of Copac , a leading international provider of innovative packaging and supply chain solutions, including turnkey packaging design, production and fulfillment services across a range of end markets headquartered in Spartanburg, South Carolina, on April 14, 2015 . 

&#8226; 

The Company completed the acquisition of Marin's , a worldwide leader in the point-of-sale display industry headquartered in Paris, France, on February 3, 2015 . 

&#32;19 

Executive Officers of Quad/Graphics 

The following table sets forth the names, ages (as of February 18, 2016 ) and positions of Quad/Graphics' executive officers. 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Position 

J. Joel Quadracci 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 

John C. Fowler 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Global Strategy and Corporate Development 

Thomas J. Frankowski 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chief Operating Officer 

Renee B. Badura 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President of Sales 

David A. Blais 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President of Global Procurement and Platform Strategy 

David J. Honan 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Jennifer J. Kent 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President of Administration and General Counsel 

Kelly A. Vanderboom 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President of Logistics, Vice President and Treasurer 

Steven D. Jaeger 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Vice President and Chief Information Officer 

Nancy J. Ott 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Vice President of Human Resources 

Maura D. Packham 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Vice President of Marketing and Communications 

Anthony C. Staniak 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 

Mr. Quadracci has served as the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Quad/Graphics since January 2010. He previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer from July 2006 to January 2010, President from January 2005 to July 2006 and has served as a director of Quad/Graphics since 2003. Mr. Quadracci joined Quad/Graphics in 1991 and, prior to becoming President and Chief Executive Officer, served in various capacities, including Sales Manager, Regional Sales Strategy Director, Vice President of Print Sales, Senior Vice President of Sales &#38; Administration, and President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Quadracci is the brother of Kathryn Quadracci Flores, a director of the Company, and the brother-in-law of Christopher B. Harned, a director of the Company. Quad/Graphics believes that Mr. Quadracci's experience in the printing industry and in leadership positions with the Company qualifies him for service as a director of the Company. 

Mr. Fowler has served as Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Global Strategy and Corporate Development since March 2014. He previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from July 2010 to March 2014, as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from May 2005 to July 2010 and as Vice President and Controller from when he joined Quad/Graphics in 1980 (which at the time was the Company's top financial position) until May 2005. Prior to joining Quad/Graphics, Mr. Fowler worked for Arthur Andersen LLP for six years. 

Mr. Frankowski has served as Chief Operating Officer since March 2014. He previously served as Executive Vice President of Manufacturing &#38; Operations and President of Europe from July 2010 to March 2014. Prior thereto, Mr. Frankowski was Senior Vice President of Manufacturing from 2004 to July 2010, President of Quad/Graphics Europe, Quad/Graphics' Polish subsidiary, from 2008 to July 2010, and he served in various other capacities since he joined Quad/Graphics in 1979. 

Ms. Badura has served as Executive Vice President of Sales since June 2015. She previously served as Vice President of Omnichannel Sales Strategy from February 2014 to June 2015, as Regional Vice President of Sales-Midwest for Marketing Solutions from January 2012 to February 2014, as Vice President of Sales - East Coast for Magazines and Catalogs from April 2007 to December 2011, as Vice President of Sales - West Coast from January 2004 to March 2007 and in various other capacities since she joined Quad/Graphics in 1986. 

&#32;20 

Mr. Blais has served as Executive Vice President of Global Procurement and Platform Strategy since March 2014. He previously served as Executive Vice President of Sales and Client Services from January 2012 to March 2014 and as Executive Vice President and President of Magazines and Catalogs from July 2010 to January 2012. Mr. Blais was Senior Vice President of Sales &#38; Administration from May 2005 to July 2010, Quad/Graphics' Vice President of Operations from 1999 to May 2005 and in various other capacities since he joined Quad/Graphics in 1984. 

Mr. Honan has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2015. He previously served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from March 2014 to January 2015, Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from July 2010 to March 2014, Vice President and Corporate Controller from December 2009 to July 2010 and as the Company's Corporate Controller from when he joined Quad/Graphics in May 2009 until December 2009. Prior to joining Quad/Graphics, Mr. Honan served as Vice President, General Manager and Chief Financial Officer of Journal Community Publishing Group, a subsidiary of media conglomerate Journal Communications Inc., for five years. Before joining Journal Community Publishing Group, Mr. Honan worked in executive-level roles in investor relations and corporate development at Newell Rubbermaid, a global marketer of consumer and commercial products. Prior thereto, Mr. Honan worked at the accounting firm Arthur Andersen LLP for 11 years. 

Ms. Kent has served as Executive Vice President of Administration and General Counsel since June 2015. She previously served as Vice President and General Counsel from December 2013 to June 2015 and as the Company's Assistant General Counsel from when she joined Quad/Graphics in August 2010 until December 2013. Prior to joining Quad/Graphics, Ms. Kent held various positions in the legal department at Harley-Davidson Motor Company from March 2003 to July 2010. Prior thereto, Ms. Kent served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin and practiced law at Foley &#38; Lardner LLP, a Milwaukee-based law firm. 

Mr. Vanderboom has served as President of Logistics, Vice President and Treasurer since March 2014. He previously served as Quad/Graphics' Vice President &#38; Treasurer from 2008 to March 2014 and as its Treasurer from 2007 to 2008. Prior to becoming Quad/Graphics' Treasurer, Mr. Vanderboom served as Director of Treasury, Risk &#38; Planning from 2006 until 2007, as Controller of Quad/Graphics' Distribution and Facilities departments from 2004 until 2006, and in various other capacities since he joined Quad/Graphics in 1993. 

Mr. Jaeger has served as Vice President and Chief Information Officer since November 2015. He previously served as Executive Vice President, President of Direct Marketing and Chief Information Officer from November 2014 to November 2015, as Executive Vice President, President of Direct Marketing and Media Solutions and Chief Information Officer from March 2014 to November 2014, as Corporate Vice President of Information and Technology for Quad/Graphics since 2013, Vice President of Information Systems and Infrastructure from 2007 to 2012 and as President of Quad/Direct since August 2007. Prior thereto, Mr. Jaeger had been Quad/Graphics' Vice President of Information Systems from 1998 to 2006 and had worked in various other capacities since he joined the Company in 1994. Prior to joining Quad/Graphics, Mr. Jaeger worked for Andersen Consulting for eight years. 

Ms. Ott has served as Vice President of Human Resources since December 2013. She previously served as the Company's Executive Director of Human Resources from 2009 to 2013, as Manager of Human Resources from 1994 to 2009 and as Employee Services Generalist from 1986 to 1994. Prior to joining Quad/Graphics, Ms. Ott worked for Principal Financial Group. 

Ms. Packham has served as Vice President of Marketing and Communications from when she joined Quad/Graphics in July 2010. Prior to joining Quad/Graphics, Ms. Packham served as World Color Press' Vice President of Marketing for North America during 2010 and as World Color Press' Vice President of Marketing for the Marketing Solutions Group from 2003 to 2009. She joined World Color Press in 1995 as a senior financial analyst. 

&#32;21 

Mr. Staniak has served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since January 2015. He previously served as Executive Director, Financial Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from March 2014 to January 2015, as Executive Director and Financial Controller from March 2013 to March 2014, as Director of Internal Audit from November 2011 to March 2013 and as Director of External Reporting from when he joined Quad/Graphics in October 2009 until November 2011. Prior to joining Quad/Graphics, Mr. Staniak served as Chief Financial Officer for the data consulting firm Sagence, Inc. since 2002. Prior thereto, Mr. Staniak worked in the audit division of the accounting firm Arthur Andersen LLP since 1995. 

Executive officers of the Company are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Company's board of directors. Other than described above, there are no family relationships between any directors or executive officers of Quad/Graphics. 

&#32;22 

