 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

OVERVIEW 

We are a vertically integrated, advanced electronic materials provider specializing in monocrystalline sapphire for applications in light-emitting diodes (&#147;LEDs&#148;), optical systems and specialty electronic devices. Sapphire is also used as an exterior component in mobile devices, specifically camera lens covers, dual flashes and home buttons on certain newer model smartphones and as the crystal covering the faces of certain smart watches. Sapphire was adopted for use on the home button on certain smartphones because of the scratch resistance and increased touch capacitance it offers, which are important characteristics to ensure the effectiveness of the fingerprint recognition security built into the device. We believe that the use of fingerprint recognition security and other biometrics could become more prevalent in the future, which could become a strong growth driver for sapphire. In addition, some consumer electronics original equipment manufacturers (&#147;OEMs&#148;) are using full sapphire faceplates for smartphones, in limited volume. If sapphire smartphone faceplates were widely adopted, this would become the world&#146;s largest application for sapphire. We apply our proprietary crystal growth technology to produce high-quality sapphire products to supply both high-volume and niche end-markets, and we work closely with our customers to meet their quality and delivery needs. 

Our largest product lines are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; sapphire cores, two to six inches in diameter, which our customers further process into wafers for use in LED applications and into components such as lens covers for mobile devices; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; four and six-inch sapphire wafers that are used as substrates for the manufacture of LED chips and to a lesser extent for other semiconductor applications such as Silicon-on-Sapphire (&#147;SoS&#148;) Radio Frequency Integrated Circuits (&#147;RFICs&#148;); &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; four, six, and eight-inch patterned sapphire substrate (&#147;PSS&#148;) wafers which are polished wafers that undergo additional processes of photolithography and dry plasma etching to produce a patterned surface which enhances LED light extraction efficiency (&#147;LEE&#148;); and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; optical sapphire components in various shapes and sizes, including round and rectangular windows and blanks, domes, tubes and rods. These optical sapphire products are used in equipment for a wide variety of end markets, including defense and aerospace, medical devices, oil and gas drilling, semiconductor manufacturing and other markets. For the LED market, we currently sell two to six-inch material in core form and four, six and eight-inch material in polished and PSS wafer form. Eight-inch wafers are sold primarily for customers&#146; research and development efforts at this time. We have the ability to produce cores and wafers of up to twelve inches in diameter to support production of chips for next-generation LED and other electronic applications. Larger sapphire also has current applications in the optical markets. In other semiconductor markets, sapphire is used in certain RFIC products. 

We believe that LED production is following a similar path to that of production of integrated circuits on silicon substrates, which gradually migrated to production on increasingly larger substrates in order to reduce manufacturing costs. We feel that this migration to larger substrates and the related efficiency gains will help reduce the prices of LED devices and thereby facilitate greater adoption of LED technology in the backlighting and general lighting markets. 

Our vertically-integrated manufacturing capabilities are designed to enable us to maintain our high quality standards while controlling costs. We start with powdered aluminum oxide and densify and purify the powder with our proprietary process into a form used in our crystal growth furnaces. We design, assemble and maintain our own proprietary crystal growth furnaces to grow high-purity, low-stress, ultra-low-defect-density sapphire crystals. In addition, we possess capabilities in high-precision core drilling, wafer slicing, surface lapping, edge bevel grinding, polishing, patterning and wafer cleaning processes. We also have the ability to etch patterns onto our polished wafers for use in the LED market. We foster a strong sense of innovation and agility in our product development teams in an attempt to develop new products more effectively and to differentiate our product offering. 

We plan to leverage our technological advantage in efficiently producing high-quality, large-diameter sapphire products to capitalize on future growth opportunities. To attain this goal, we are investing in research and development activities, continuing to enhance our operational capabilities, increasing our brand recognition and diversifying into new market segments. 

We are a Delaware corporation incorporated on February 7, 2001. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol &#147;RBCN.&#148; 

INDUSTRY OVERVIEW 

Integrated circuits and other semiconductor devices have traditionally been fabricated on silicon substrates. However, for certain advanced applications, new electronic materials have emerged as the substrates of choice due to evolving integration and performance considerations. For example, sapphire is the preferred substrate material for High Brightness (&#147;HB&#148;) white, blue and green LED applications due to its crystal lattice compatibility with the aluminum gallium nitride (&#147;AlGaN&#148;) epitaxial layers, thermal expansion properties, commercial availability and cost efficiency. Because of its hardness, transparency and other physical properties, sapphire has long been used for windows and lenses in harsh environments and is now being used as a component in consumer electronic devices and other non-LED applications. 

&#160;

LED applications 

Advancements in solid state lighting utilizing HB white, blue and green LEDs over the past decade represent a disruptive technology in the lighting industry, providing significant performance, environmental and economic improvements compared to traditional incandescent or fluorescent lighting. For example, traditional incandescent lamps are inefficient and costly, emitting over 90% of consumed power as heat and lasting only 1,500 to 2,000 hours. Fluorescent lamps produce light by passing electricity through toxic mercury vapor, which creates an environmental disposal problem. LEDs do not contain mercury or lead and are 4.0 to 6.6 times as efficient as traditional incandescent lamps, while providing 35,000 to 50,000 hours of light. These factors, along with their durability, small form factor, excellent color performance and decreasing costs, have led to growing demand for LEDs in applications such as small displays for mobile devices, flashes for digital cameras, backlighting units (&#147;BLUs&#148;) for displays used in notebook computers, desktop monitors, LCD televisions, public display signs, automotive lights, street lights, traffic signals and general and specialty lighting. Applications using LEDs have unit volumes in the billions and we believe are expected to grow significantly over the next several years. More than 95 percent of HB LEDs are produced on sapphire substrates. Therefore, as the HB LED market grows, we believe the sapphire substrate market will grow as well. 

General illumination. LEDs are increasingly being used for outdoor and indoor commercial and public lighting, architectural lighting, street lights, traffic signals, retail displays, residential lighting, replacement lamps and off-grid lighting for developing countries. General illumination has recently become the largest application for HB LEDs and is still growing rapidly. 

Mobile devices. LEDs are used in color displays for mobile phones and other portable electronics such as GPS systems, MP3 players and digital camera flashes. LEDs are well suited for mobile devices due to their low current drain which extends battery life and durability while generating less heat. For these reasons, the vast majority of mobile devices utilize LED lighting. 

LED backlighting units for large displays. LED BLUs now frequently replace conventional fluorescent BLUs in LCD flat panel televisions, notebook computers and desktop monitors. Benefits of LED BLUs in these applications are reduced power consumption/extended battery life, thinner displays, quicker response time and better color rendition. Displays made with LED BLUs also have no toxic materials, which helps electronics manufacturers to comply with environmental regulations. 

Automotive lighting. Automobile manufacturers are increasingly using LEDs in car and truck headlights, turning and tail light functions as well as interior lighting. Benefits include near-instant response time, reduced power usage and more stylish and effective designs. Increased LED usage in other transportation vehicles such as motorcycles and commercial jets offers additional growth potential. 

Commercial signage/displays. LEDs are widely used as light sources on large signs, LED displays and outdoor displays, such as jumbo screens used in sports arenas and electronic billboard displays. 

Optical applications 

Sapphire is utilized for windows and optics for aerospace, sensor, medical and laser applications due to its wide-band transmission, superior strength, scratch resistance and high strength-to-weight ratio. Sapphire&#146;s physical properties make it very well suited for jet fighter targeting pod windows, forward-looking infrared windows for commercial and business jets as well as unmanned air vehicles or drones, rocket domes and transparent armor for military vehicles. Recently, sapphire has been adopted for use in several new applications in mobile devices, specifically camera lens covers, dual flashes and home buttons on certain newer model smartphones. The switch to sapphire for these mobile device applications is because sapphire is highly scratch resistant and offers improved touch capacitance, which are important characteristics to ensure the effectiveness of the fingerprint recognition security recently built into the home button functionality of one of the major brands of smartphones. Biometrics, such as fingerprint recognition, provides greater security than a password. Data security is becoming an increasing concern in society and we believe that the use of biometrics could increase in coming years, which could increase demand for sapphire. 

Some consumer electronics OEMs have announced or introduced smart watches using sapphire crystals and a few OEMs have announced or introduced smart phones with the entire faceplate made of sapphire crystal. One factor delaying broader adoption is the relatively high fabrication costs to make a faceplate from bulk sapphire. We are working on developing alternative sapphire solutions for this market that could eliminate most of the customer&#146;s fabrication costs. 

Other semiconductor applications 

SoS integrated circuits consist of a thin layer of silicon grown on a sapphire substrate and are primarily used for RFICs in advanced wireless and military applications. In particular, SoS RFICs are currently used in mobile communication base stations, satellites and radiation-hardened applications for the defense industry. 

&#160;

Sapphire substrate industry supply chain 

The production process for sapphire substrates is substantially similar to that of silicon wafers. A typical process flow consists of crystal growth, fabrication, slicing, lapping and polishing steps. Output quality is measured in flatness, desired crystal planar orientation, etch pitch density and crystalline structure uniformity. We place a great emphasis on continuously improving yields and increasing production efficiency to drive costs lower to take advantage of emerging high-volume opportunities as they arise. Manufacturers are exploring the use of larger diameter sapphire wafers to allow them to gain efficiency in their production processes through higher throughput and reduced edge loss. In addition to high quality crystal, they require very precise dimensional tolerances, high production volumes, cost efficiency and on-time delivery. Sapphire is the material on which the entire HB LED value chain is built. 

TECHNOLOGY 

Rubicon, as a vertically integrated manufacturer, has developed proprietary advanced technology at every stage of production from raw material processing through crystal growth, fabrication, wafer finishing, patterning and cleaning. 

Our proprietary crystal growth technique, which we refer to as ES2, produces high-quality sapphire crystals for use in our sapphire products. ES2 is derived from the standard Kyropoulos method of crystal growth. We developed this technique with the goal of establishing greater control over the crystal growth process while maintaining minimal temperature variations. Unlike other techniques, during the ES2 technique, the growing sapphire crystal exists in an unconstrained, low stress environment inside a closed growth chamber. The closed system allows for enhanced control of the melt, resulting in higher quality crystals. The temperature gradient between the melt and the crystal in the ES2 technique is significantly lower than in other crystal growth techniques. These aspects of the ES2 technique enable us to grow crystals that have a significantly lower dislocation density, higher crystal purity and greater uniformity than sapphire crystals grown using other techniques. The ES2 technique provides an inherent annealing process once the crystal is fully grown. This thermal annealing is an integral means of relieving stress in the crystal during the ES2 process. We have demonstrated the ability to readily scale our ES2 technology in a production environment while maintaining high crystal quality even as crystal boule size is increased. 

We have automated the crystal growth process of our proprietary ES2 technique. Our furnace environments are controlled by closed-loop control systems and the overall crystal growth process is run with minimal operator intervention, which reduces the potential for human error. In addition, a single operator can supervise the control of multiple ES2 furnaces simultaneously, which reduces costs. 

We believe our proprietary ES2 process provides significant advantages over other crystal growth methods such as Czochralski (&#147;CZ&#148;) and Edge-defined Film-fed Growth (&#147;EFG&#148;). Unlike the ES2 technique, the CZ and EFG methods grow crystals with much higher levels of stress. This stress can decrease the overall quality of the sapphire crystal and requires increased processing time to relieve this stress, which increases production costs and decreases throughput, especially in larger diameter crystals. During the EFG process, the crystal is grown in a sheet form by pulling it through a die directly from the melt; while in the CZ process, the crystal must be rotated and pulled as the aluminum oxide melt is consumed. These constrained growth environments with higher thermal gradients increase stress and decrease crystal quality. 

Our research and development (&#147;R&#38;D&#148;) activity plays a vital role in supporting our technology, product and revenue roadmaps. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, our R&#38;D expenses totaled $2.2 million, $1.9 million and $2.3 million, respectively. These expenses do not include costs incurred in connection with our R&#38;D activities under a government contract. Activities under the government contract are accounted for as revenue and cost of goods sold. Our R&#38;D is focused on four key areas: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; large area sapphire growth and fabrication; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; higher precision sapphire processing; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; cost-effective optical components for mobile devices and; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; hard aluminum oxide coatings for diverse applications. Our technical staff possesses deep and broad expertise in materials science and engineering. We also utilize sophisticated metrology equipment to perform material and process characterization. 

PRODUCTS 

We offer a wide variety of sapphire products designed to meet the stringent specifications of our customers. Using our proprietary ES2 technology, we grow high-quality sapphire boules. We fabricate our products from the boules and sell them as core, polished wafer, and patterned sapphire substrate (&#147;PSS&#148;) wafers. A sapphire crystal has multiple orientation planes resulting from its crystalline structure symmetry. Each orientation of the crystal structure is represented by a letter and differs in lattice structure. These variations result in different chemical, electrical and physical properties depending on the particular orientation plane. As a result, customers require different orientation planes depending on the intended application. For example, LED manufacturers typically request C plane crystals while SoS manufacturers typically request R plane crystals. 

&#160;

Our current sales efforts are now focused on selling two through four-inch cores to our polishing customers and four and six-inch polished and PSS wafers to our semiconductor device manufacturing customers. Eight-inch wafers are sold primarily for customers&#146; research and development at this time. 

&#160;

Product 

&#160; Size &#160; Orientation 

&#160; Applications 

Core &#160; 2,&#148; 3,&#148; 4&#148;, 6&#148; &#160; C, R, A, M &#160; &#149; LED

&#160;

&#149; Optical windows

Polished &#160; 4&#148;, 6&#148;, 8&#148; &#160; C, R, A &#160; &#149; Epi-polished wafers for LEDs and SoS RFICs

&#160;

&#149; Polished optical windows

&#160;

&#149; Double-side polished wafer carriers

Patterned Sapphire Substrate &#160; 4&#148;, 6&#148; &#160; C &#160; &#149; Epi-polished patterned wafers for LEDs

Core 

Our core product line consists of our sapphire cores drilled from sapphire boules with high-precision. In 2015, 2014, and 2013, sales of core accounted for 48%, 65%, and 56%, of our revenue, respectively. Major suppliers of sapphire and new entrants have added capacity, resulting in excess supply which caused lower product prices. Core prices have trended lower over the last three years. 

Polished 

Our polished product line primarily consists of finely polished, ultra-clean, four, six and eight-inch sapphire wafers. Our polished wafers undergo two polishing phases, including both a mechanical and a chemical mechanical planarization phase. We believe we are currently one of a small number of fully vertically integrated firms offering six and eight-inch, high-quality C-plane and R-plane polished wafers. In 2015, 2014, and 2013 sales of polished wafers accounted for 15%, 18%, and 29% of our revenue, respectively. The proportion of revenue from polished wafers in the future will depend on a number of factors, including customer adoption of large-diameter sapphire wafers in the LED market, customer decisions to purchase patterned versus polished wafers and pricing for our various products, including cores. 

Patterned sapphire substrates 

Our patterned sapphire substrates (&#147;PSS&#148;) product line was introduced in 2013 and consists of finely polished, ultra-clean, four and six-inch patterned sapphire wafers. LED chip manufacturers etch a pattern onto the surface of the sapphire wafer in the early stages of their production process in order to improve light output. We have leveraged our capability in producing larger diameter sapphire wafers to offer pre-patterned, larger diameter (four-inch and six-inch) wafers to the LED market. We offer fully customizable, sub-micron patterning capability with dimensional tolerances within one tenth of a micron. We also offer the industry&#146;s smallest edge exclusion zone maximizing the usable wafer surface area yielding more chips per wafer. We believe we are the first vertically integrated sapphire producer to offer high volume four and six-inch patterned substrates. In 2015, sales of PSS wafers accounted for 13% of our revenue and in 2014 sales of PSS wafers accounted for less than 10% of our revenue. 

Optical 

We offer optically-polished windows and ground window blanks of sapphire. We provide sapphire and other crystal products in many sizes, shapes and product formats for specialty applications. We are focusing in 2016 on increasing our business and technological development efforts in optical markets for aerospace, defense and industrial applications, as well as in the consumer electronics market. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, sales of optical products accounted for 21%, 15% and 11%, respectively. 

Research and Development 

We record R&#38;D revenue associated with a government contract as costs are incurred plus a fixed fee. We are focusing in 2016 on completing our R&#38;D efforts which have resulted in successfully growing large rectangular slabs of sapphire for use in defense applications. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 revenue from R&#38;D accounted for less than 10% of our revenue, respectively. 

MANUFACTURING 

The process of growing the crystal begins by heating the raw material, aluminum oxide, until it reaches an ideal temperature above its melting point. This ideal temperature is essential for our process because it allows us to produce high-purity crystals with very low defect rates. Following the heating, a seed rod is inserted in the melted material as the material is being cooled to crystallize into a boule. Following the growth process, each boule is rigorously inspected by using polarized lighting and magnification to find imperfections, such as bubbles, dislocations and granular deposits within the crystal. 

We then drill the resulting boules into cylindrical cores using our custom high-precision crystal orientation equipment and proprietary processes. We use wire saws to slice each core into wafers of precise size and shape. These wafers are then pre-polished using precision lapping and edge-grinding equipment and then are ready to be polished into epitaxial wafers. All of these processes are 

&#160;

performed in clean environments to reduce the chance of crystal contamination. Epi-polishing and wafer cleaning are performed in Class 10,000 and Class 100 clean-room environments, respectively. For PSS, we use photolithography and dry plasma etching to create customer determined micropatterns on polished wafers. 

We are dedicated to quality assurance throughout our entire operation. We employ detailed material traceability from raw material to finished product. Our quality system is certified as ISO9001:2000, and we have in-house expertise at the Six Sigma Black Belt level. 

All of our long-lived assets are located in the U.S. and Malaysia. For more information see Note 3- Segment Information to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

SALES AND MARKETING 

We market and sell our products through our direct sales force to customers in Asia, Australia, North America and Europe. Our direct sales force includes experienced and technically sophisticated sales professionals and engineers who are knowledgeable in the development, manufacturing and use of sapphire substrates, windows and other optical materials. Our sales staff works with customers during all stages of the substrate manufacturing process, from developing the precise composition of the substrate through manufacturing and processing the substrate to the customer&#146;s specifications. 

A key component of our marketing strategy is developing and maintaining strong relationships with our customers. We achieve this by working closely with our customers to optimize our products for their production processes. In addition, we are able to develop long-term relationships with key customers by offering product specification assistance, providing direct access to enable them to evaluate and audit our operations, delivering high-quality products and providing superior customer service. We believe that maintaining close relationships with senior management and providing technical support improves customer satisfaction. 

In order to increase brand recognition of our products and of Rubicon in general, we publish technical articles, distribute promotional materials and participate in industry trade shows and conferences. 

CUSTOMERS 

Our principal customers are semiconductor device manufacturers and wafer polishing companies. A substantial portion of our sales have been to a small number of customers. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, our top two customers accounted for approximately 31%, 36% and 44% of our revenue, respectively. Although we are attempting to diversify and expand our customer base, we expect our sales to continue to be concentrated among a small number of customers. However, we also expect that our significant customers may change from time to time. In 2015, sales to Zhejiang Crystal Optech Co. Ltd. and Osram Opto Semiconductors represented approximately 16% and 15% of our revenues, respectively. In 2014, sales to Zhejiang Crystal Optech Co. Ltd. and Tera Xtal Technology Corp. represented approximately 24% and 12% of our revenues, respectively. In 2013, sales to Peregrine Semiconductor Corporation and Nanjing J-crystal Photoelectric Technology Co. represented approximately 27% and 17% of our revenues, respectively. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues during 2015, 2014, or 2013. 

In 2015, 54% of our sales were made to customers in Asia, 23% of our sales were made to customers in North America, 19% of our sales were made to customers in Europe and 4% of our sales were made to customers in Australia. In 2014, 79% of our sales were made to customers in Asia, 14% of our sales were made to customers in North America, 5% of our sales were made to customers in Europe and 2% of our sales were made to customers in Australia. In 2013, 60% of our sales were made to customers in Asia, 25% of our sales were made to customers in Australia, 11% of our sales were made to customers in North America and 4% of our sales were made to customers in Europe. Our customer supply agreements tend to be for short periods of time, typically 90 days. Therefore, fluctuations in demand could cause our quarterly revenue to vary significantly. Our standard arrangement with most customers includes payment terms, which is customary in the industry. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

Our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and other confidential information is a key factor in our ability to compete successfully. We rely primarily upon a combination of patent, trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements with employees, customers and potential customers to protect our intellectual property. We have seven patents issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark office and fifteen pending patent applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and various other foreign countries, mostly covering aspects of our core production, wafer grinding and lapping technologies. However, we believe that factors such as the technological and innovative abilities of our personnel, the success of our ongoing product development efforts and our efforts to maintain trade secret protection are more important than patents in maintaining our competitive position. We pursue the registration of certain of our trademarks in the U.S. and currently have three registered trademarks. 

COMPETITION 

The markets for high-quality sapphire products are very competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change. The products we produce must meet certain demanding requirements to succeed in the marketplace. Although we are a well-established sapphire producer, we face significant competition from other established providers of similar products as well as from new and potential entrants into our markets. 

&#160;

We have several competitors that compete directly with us. In recent years, certain companies that formerly competed with us only in sapphire cores have entered into wafer polishing and are trying to establish positions in the large-diameter wafer market. These companies tend to focus on providing core and as-cut products rather than offering polished products. There are a limited number of companies that are substantially larger than we are that compete with us in a relatively small segment of their overall business. These larger companies tend to focus on providing polished products to customers rather than providing core products. 

We believe that the key competitive factors in our markets are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; consistently producing high-quality products in the desired size, orientation and finish; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; pricing; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; providing a low total cost-of-ownership for customers; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; driving innovation through focused research and development efforts; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; offering solutions through collaborative efforts with customers; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; possessing sufficient supply capacity to meet end-market customer demands. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION 

In our manufacturing process, we use water, oils, slurries, acids, adhesives and other industrial chemicals. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of these materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These include statutory and regulatory provisions under which we are responsible for the management of hazardous materials we use and the disposition of hazardous wastes resulting from our manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with such provisions, whether intentional or inadvertent, could result in fines and other liabilities to the government or third parties, injunctions requiring us to suspend or curtail operations or other remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 244 full-time employees, of which 214 worked in technology and operations. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

OTHER INFORMATION 

You may access, free of charge, our reports filed with the SEC (for example, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those forms) indirectly through our Internet website (www.rubicontechnology.com). Reports filed with or furnished to the SEC will be available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such SEC report (without exhibits) or document, write to Investor Relations, Rubicon Technology, Inc., 900 East Green Street, Bensenville, Illinois 60106, and a copy of such requested document will be provided to you, free of charge. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

&#160;

