 ITEM 1 . BUSINESS 

Background Information 

Real Estate Contacts, Inc. (&#34;The Company&#34;) was formed on March 10, 2005 as a Florida Corporation and is based in Parrish, Florida. The Company engages in the ownership and operation of a real estate advertising portal website. Real Estate Contacts, Inc. provides a comprehensive online real estate search portal that consists of an advertising and marketing platform for real estate professionals.

Real Estate Contacts, Inc. operates an online national real estate search web portal. The company offers exclusive cities to real estate professionals so they can grow their businesses online and have the opportunity to show their listings and reach consumers interested in buying or selling property in their respective exclusive geographic areas.

RealEstateContacts.com serves as an internet portal that features a real estate search engine and a media network that directs consumers to receive more detailed information about current listings, homes for sale, commercial properties, mortgages, and foreclosures.

Our customer base is consumers interested in buying or selling their home and properties. We've made it an easy and convenient process for the consumer to start their search by featuring their local real estate companies or agents current listings. Consumers can view current properties and houses for sale in hundreds of U.S. cities as well as in their local market.

Real Estate professionals use the internet to generate leads. The top sources of internet leads are company and agent web sites. The internet is vital to a growing number of real estate professionals&#146; success. The strong surge in technology has created many new companies in the real estate industry. Many of them have become household names and gone public in a few short years . 

Our goal as a real estate portal is to send consumers to our real estate search site to view offices, brokers or agents current listings where they can find out more information about a particular property. We are building a national online lead network for our real estate professionals. 

Our mission is for our company to become one of the leading marketing partners to the real estate industry.

The company provides consumers the opportunity to view real estate listings and homes for sale in their local markets and in most markets and cities throughout the United States.

We enable real estate professionals to better promote themselves and their listings and connect with transaction-ready consumers through our online websites and marketing website products. Our current real estate search website and our new real estate video website product enable real estate professionals to increase their visibility and promote their listings.

Business Operations 

Real Estate Contacts, Inc. provides a service that enables real estate professionals to capture, cultivate, and convert leads which cater to prospective home buyers and sellers from our Real Estate Search Engine Website ( www.realestatecontacts.com )..

The Company&#146;s business is conducted solely within the Internet. Our company matches buyers, sellers, and real brokers and agents anywhere in the world.

Products and Services 

The Company currently operates a real estate search portal www.realestatecontacts.com that features real estate professional&#146;s current listings and profiles in their service areas. 

The Company&#146;s marketing strategy is to feature the real estate professional&#146;s current listings on the RealEstateContacts.com portal website exclusively in the areas that they service and work in so potential home buyers can view current real estate listings and homes that are for sale. We will send homebuyers and sellers to our real estate website so they can view our real estate contacts current listings so our real estate professionals become focused on receiving good leads for their business. This format would be called a lead generation program for real estate professionals that are on the RealEstateContacts.com portal website. 

QuickLink to 

QuickLink to Financial Statements 

The driving of internet traffic is the key to any online marketing company. Our advertising campaign will be built around all internet related marketing concepts, such as search engine optimization, pay per clicks advertising, banner advertising, email marketing, and linking up to other real estate portals and directories.

We currently offer real estate agents, brokers, and offices the opportunity to become the exclusive real estate contact in the city that they serve on www.RealEstateContacts.com for a yearly fee, 

We will soon introduce a new business video website. We will develop online video websites for the enterprise market. With our Video for Business, video becomes a serious business tool. A corporate video website can be an incredibly powerful vehicle enabling small business owners the opportunity to communicate and reach their customers and potential customers. We will produce a video product that will reflect the business owner&#146;s values and their business.

The combination of our websites sets the stage to offer more real estate tools and services that empower consumers and drive more business for real estate professionals as well as small business owners.

Participating real estate brokers, offices and agents receive EXCLUSIVE coverage in the cities, areas and territories that they service. Consumers can find houses and foreclosures for sale in hundreds of U.S. cities and in their local market.

The company generates its revenue from selling advertising to real estate professionals on our real estate portal.

The company&#146;s real estate portal website currently receive thousands of unique visitors each month and these visitors are consumers interested in viewing real estate listings, homes for sale and foreclosure properties in their local area.

Consumers will and do continue to buy and sell homes in real estate markets throughout the United States. The majority are going online to do so and will continue to contact and seek the advice of real estate professionals.

Reports to Security Holders 

We file reports and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). You may read and copy any document that we file at the SEC's public reference facilities at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-732-0330 for more information about its public reference facilities. Our SEC filings will be available to you free of charge at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov.

At the request of a shareholder, we will send a copy of an annual report to include audited financial statements. As a reporting company with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;), we file all necessary quarterly (Form 10-Q), annual (Form 10-K) and other reports as required.

