 Item 1. Business

&#160;

Our Business

We are a development stage company in the business of acquiring, developing, marketing and selling mobile application software. Our operations, to date, have been devoted primarily to startup and development activities, which include the following:

&#167; Formation of the company; 

&#167; Development of our business plan; 

&#167; Building an online presence; 

&#167; Design and development of our initial mobile application 

Currently, we have no fully-developed revenue generating mobile applications. We intend to build a harmonious portfolio of apps that will service a wide range of industries and consumers. We currently have one application (Hotchek) in our portfolio. Hotchek is a multi-use customizable application designed to enable users to easily engage their network audience with the use of highly interactive polls and surveys.

We expect that Apple and Android online App stores will be the primary distribution, marketing, promotion and payment platform for our mobile Apps. Operations will also take place through our company website &#8220;devagoinc.com,&#8221; which intends to serve as a multipurpose marketplace for the sale of our mobile applications.

Our planned website, devagoinc.com, is in the development stage. In addition, our product offering is also in the development stage. We have only recently begun operations, have no sales or revenues, and therefore rely upon the sale of our securities or debt financing to fund our operations. We have a going concern uncertainty as of the date of our most recent financial statements.

We intend to meet our cash requirements for the next 12 months by generating revenue and through a combination of debt financing and equity financing. We currently do not have any arrangements or commitments in place to complete any private placement financings and there is no assurance that we will be successful in completing any such financings on terms that will be acceptable to us.

As we did not raise the $105,000 budget that we require to implement our business plan as anticipated, we will scale our business development in line with available capital. Our primary priority will be to retain our reporting status with the SEC which means that we will first ensure that we have sufficient capital to cover our corporate, legal and accounting expenses. We will likely not expend funds on the remainder of our planned activities unless we have the required capital.

We will prioritize our corporate activities as chronologically laid out below as these activities need to be undertaken as a prerequisite for future operations.

Market Trends and Opportunity

It is still too early to predict the trajectory that apps will take; however, it is becoming clear - the mobile browser is taking a back seat to mobile apps. Analytics firm Flurry has published data on mobile usage by US consumers during Q1 2014. While users are spending more time on their devices (an average of 2 hours and 42 minutes per day, up four minutes on the same period last year), how they use that time has changed as well. Only 22 minutes per day are spent in the browser, with the balance of time focused on applications. This is a reality that enterprises around the world are now taking on in the development of their marketing and business strategies.

&#160; &#160; 

&#160;

Devago believes the mobile channel is opening up new ways for companies to nurture customer relationships in ways not possible in the past. Via the deployment of strategic apps, mobile presents businesses with a unique opportunity to engage customers with a product or service anytime, anywhere, in a manner that is specifically tuned to their individual needs. The mobile experience also delivers a rich set of analytics that provides hard-to-come-by insights into everything from a customer's buying behavior to his or her actual physical location, allowing companies to custom tailor the conversation while also setting the stage for interaction that is all about intention.

Mobile opens up a world of data that no other channel can provide, with access to a user&#8217;s on-the-go lifestyle, consumption habits, social, transactions and is the fabric to connecting to the world around us &#8211; it truly tells marketers who their consumer is. We believe that we have the expertise and keen eye for applications that facilitate mobile relationship marketing (MRM) as a critical area for companies to gain competency and competitive advantage. We endeavor to become one of leading mobile applications providers within the space of mobile relationship marketing.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

The Graph above is a breakdown of the overall mobile advertising revenues spent versus time spent on Mobile. Google accounts for 18% of time spent on Mobile and has a high market share in terms of ad revenues at 49.3% of advertising spent. The rest of the apps, including gaming apps, are simply not getting their fair share of advertising spent. The &#8220;other&#8221; apps command 65.3% of time spent but only receive 32% of ad revenues. We believe this represents a massive opportunity for applications to monetize through advertising. Globally ad spend jumped by 105% in 2013. eMarketer also projects that the mobile ad market will grow 75% in 2014 for a total of $31.5 billion, making the opportunity even bigger. Please note, while the foregoing industry predictions are based on publicly available third party industry reports, there are wide ranging variations in the predictions regarding the size of the future mobile applications market and undue reliance should not be placed on these statistics.

Current Product

Our primary products will be mobile applications. We plan to develop internal mobile applications and also to acquire existing mobile applications (&#8220;apps&#8221;) that are complementary to our existing business and the breadth of our offerings. We intend to build a harmonious portfolio of apps that will service a wide range of industries and consumers.

Currently, we have no fully-developed revenue generating mobile applications. We currently have one application (Hotchek) in our portfolio. Hotchek is a multi-use customizable application designed to enable users to easily engage their network audience with the use of highly interactive polls and surveys.

Hotchek is currently in its second phase of the final stage of development. To date, we have paid Softaddicts $15,000 to help develop the Hotcheck application. Softaddicts is no longer being used for development of our software as the development team has changed as the project migrated into the second phase.

During the first phase of development the following services were provided:

1. Application and form design; 

2. Database design and architecture; 

3. Programmatic code to connect the forms to the database; and 

4. Compile iOS and Android applications. 

There were no statements of work in connection the above services.

Mr. Crespo oversaw the development work by Softaddicts, made modifications as needed and tested the source imagery and marketing content for the messaging. The services provided by Softaddicts and Mr. Crespo resulted in a working prototype of the application and information page about its functions. This information page is found at http://wwha.softaddicts.com/public-campaigns. Our sole officer and director loaned us $15,000 to pay Softaddicts under an 8% demand promissory note dated February 5, 2015. We no longer use the services of Softaddicts as their scope of work has concluded.

We have planned for three releases associated with the Hotchek app, with the following features and costs:

1. During Phase 1 we developed release one where approximately 70% of the prototype was completed. 

2. Release two will require an additional $15,000 and take 30-60 additional days to complete. 

&#160;

3. Release three will be based on the feedback from customers using released versions of release one and two. The time period and budget is unknown until we receive feedback and have a better understanding of the amount of development work required. 

&#160;

&#160;

We have completed release one and continue to work on release two of the Hotchek app and hope to have it ready for commercial sale during the 4 th quarter of 2016. 

We expect to complete releases one and two of the Hotchek app and have it ready for commercial sale by in 2016.

During the period from September to November, 2015, the Company performed design and implementation of the Chrome extension, iOS, and Android Apps for Hotchek. A framework was completed to solidify short and long term goals of the product. Unit testing was also completed, and functionality of the extension was tested. Scalability of the projects have been considered during design of the applications.

During the period from December, 2015, to February, 2016, the UAT of the chrome extension was completed, and the product was tested across different versions, screen resolutions, and operating systems. Customer feedback was sought on the usability of the extension, and changes were made to incorporate customer suggestions. The application was made ready for live deployment. Work was completed on the coding of the mobile apps for Andriod and iOS. Unit testing of the mobile apps was completed during this period, involving testing on various versions of the operating systems and hardware.

Aside from our internal applications, we plan to acquire Apps that are currently in development, as well as apps that are ready to be presented to the public. We plan to specialize in apps that are used to increase the customer connection, often with a social aspect; enable self-service; and obtain better information on customer preferences.

Revenue Generation

We plan to derive revenue by way of the sale of our developed and acquired mobile applications as well as through advertisement integration. We plan to use advertising integration in the free versions of our mobile applications that are downloaded by consumers/end users. We will also look to generate revenue from clients by sale of premium subscription packages that offer greater levels of usage or access to advanced features within the application.

We are engaged in the monetization of mobile application software or &#8220;Apps&#8221; through four revenue generating platforms: (i) development of customized Apps for third parties to monetize their particular intellectual property, persona or brand, (ii) incubation of Apps in partnership with third parties, (iii) sale of advertising and sponsorship opportunities directly to brands via mobile advertising networks and (iv) acquisition of Apps from other developers and use of a proprietary application programming interface, or API, to make Apps recommendations for our user base.

Marketing

Awareness of the services, competitive advantages and revenue potential that we are able to provide through our mobile applications, is expected to be delivered through the implementation of a number of marketing initiatives including search engine optimization, website completion, hosted video demonstrations, third party service contacts, product reviews, tradeshow attendance, as well as blogging and other forms of social media which are driven by technology and mobile flexibility. These efforts and the resulting awareness will be key drivers behind the success of our revenue producing operations.

Company Website &#8211; We believe that using the internet is a great marketing tool not only for providing information on our company, but also for providing current information on our upcoming apps as well as industry related information regarding new technology and device updates. We have developed our preliminary website, and are in the process of developing a more advanced site where we can provide more detailed information regarding our apps designs and features. We have not yet recognized revenues from the website nor is there any indication that we ever will recognize direct revenues from our website.

App Landing Page - Apart from the app page within the app store, a dedicated website for our application is necessary to harness the potential of search engines. Apart from the major ASO factors, search engines and SEO can also be used as a potential route to app discovery. If our app gathers enough traction and momentum, it will attract positive ratings and would rank better for a relevant search query in the app stores as well.

Integration into our clients&#8217; existing advertising and marketing strategies -We will focus a significant portion of our marketing and public relations efforts towards soliciting corporations or organizations to use our Hotchek mobile application within their online advertising and marketing campaigns.

We anticipate expansive growth of our subscriber base as enlisted enterprises reach out to their customers or end users to download and use our mobile application as a means to completing their interactive survey or questionnaire. We will focus its sales and promotional efforts towards organizations that have a high business to consumer component and want to deliver their brand via the mobile application space but do so in a more cost effective and time efficient manner. Focused efforts will be placed on entities with large established contact lists that are seeking innovative ways to engage their customers or end users.

Our eventual aim is to have a large enough subscriber base to attract integrated advertising revenue from big brand companies.

Customers

We currently have no customers. We are focused on several commercial enterprise markets.

For commercial use of our applications, a typical prospective customer would include;

&#167; Travel Agencies 

&#167; Model/Talent Agencies 

&#167; Product retailer 

&#167; Service providers 

&#167; Bars &#38; Restaurants 

&#167; Film Industry 

&#167; Auto Dealers 

&#167; Music Industry 

We plan to identify and address additional target categories and industries for our products based on market research and feedback from our customers.

Competition

The app development market is very competitive, with many companies developing apps worldwide.

There are many companies who compete directly with our products and services. These companies may already have an established market in our industry. Most of these companies have significantly greater financial and other resources than us and have been developing their products and services longer than we have been developing ours. Additionally, there are not significant barriers to entry in our industry and new companies may be created that will compete with us and other, more established companies who do not now directly compete with us, may choose to enter our markets and compete with us in the future.

The business in which we operate is highly competitive. Continued evolution in the industry, as well as technological advancements, is opening up the market to increased competition. Other key competitive factors include: industry consolidation; price; availability of financing; product and system performance; product quality, availability and warranty; the quality and availability of service; company reputation; and time-to-market.

Intellectual Property, Proprietary Rights, Patents and Trademarks

We currently have no patents or trademarks on our brand name and have not and do not intend to seek protection for our brand name or our mobile applications at this time; however, as business develops and operations continue, we may seek such protection. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, such as our brand and service names, since we have no patent or trademark rights unauthorized persons may attempt to copy aspects of our business, including our web site design, services, product information and sales mechanics or to obtain and use information that we regards as proprietary. Any encroachment upon our proprietary information, including the unauthorized use of our brand name, the use of a similar name by a competing company or a lawsuit initiated against us for infringement upon another company's proprietary information or improper use of their trademark, may affect our ability to create brand name recognition, cause customer confusion and/or have a detrimental effect on our business. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. or International Patent and Trademark Offices may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain name and/or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation or adverse proceeding could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could seriously harm our business operations and/or results of operations.

Government and Industry Regulation

We will be subject to local and international laws and regulations that relate directly or indirectly to our operations. We will also be subject to common business and tax rules and regulations pertaining to the operation of our business. We believe that the effects of existing or probable governmental regulations will be additional responsibilities of the management of the Company to ensure that we are in compliance with securities regulations as they apply to our products as well as ensuring that the company does not infringe on any proprietary rights of others with respect to its products. We will also need to maintain accurate financial records in order to remain complaint with securities regulations as well as any corporate tax liability we incur.

Employees and Employment Agreements

With the majority of our back office operational costs outsourced and variable, we are able to maintain a small employee base focused on income producing activities. Currently, we have one employee, which is our sole officer and director.

We currently do not have any employment agreements with our officers or directors.

