 Item 1. Business 

Company Overview 

References to &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our company,&#8221; or &#8220;the Company&#8221; refer to Rexford Industrial Realty, Inc., a Maryland corporation, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, including Rexford Industrial Realty, L.P., a Maryland limited partnership, of which we are the sole general partner and which we refer to in this report as our Operating Partnership. 

We are a self-administered and self-managed full-service REIT focused on owning, operating and acquiring industrial properties in Southern California infill markets. Our goal is to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for our stockholders by providing superior access to industrial property investments in Southern California infill markets. 

We were formed as a Maryland corporation on January 18, 2013 and Rexford Industrial Realty, L.P. (the &#8220;Operating Partnership&#8221;), of which we are the sole general partner, was formed as a Maryland limited partnership on January 18, 2013. Through our controlling interest in our Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, we own, manage, lease, acquire and develop industrial real estate primarily located in Southern California infill markets. As of December 31, 2015 , our consolidated portfolio consisted of 119 &#32;properties with approximately 12.0 million &#32;rentable square feet. We also own a 15% &#32;interest in a joint venture (the &#8220;JV&#8221;) that indirectly owns one property with approximately 0.5 million &#32;square feet, which we also manage. In addition, we currently manage an additional 19 &#32;properties with approximately 1.2 million &#32;rentable square feet. 

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#8220;Code&#8221;) commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2013. We are generally not subject to federal taxes on our income to the extent we distribute our income to our shareholders and maintain our qualification as a REIT. 

Business Objectives and Growth Strategies 

Our primary business objective is to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for our stockholders through dividends and capital appreciation. We believe that pursuing the following strategies will enable us to achieve this objective: 

Internal Growth through Intensive, Value-Add Asset Management. 

We employ an intensive asset management strategy that is designed to increase cash flow and occupancy from our properties. Our strategy includes proactive renewal of existing tenants, re-tenanting to achieve higher rents, and repositioning industrial property by renovating, modernizing or increasing functionality to increase cash flow and value. For example, we sometimes convert formerly single-tenant properties to multi-tenant occupancy to capitalize upon the higher per square foot rents generated by smaller spaces in our target markets in addition to adding or improving loading and increasing fire, life-safety and building operating systems, among other value-add initiatives. We believe that by undertaking such conversions or other functional enhancements, we can position our properties to attract a larger universe of potential tenants, increase occupancy, tenant quality and rental rates. We also believe that multi-tenant properties, as well as single mid-size buildings, help to limit our exposure to tenant default risk and diversify our sources of cash flow. Additionally, our proactive approach to leasing and asset management is driven by our in-house leasing department and team of portfolio and property managers which maintains direct, day-to-day relationships and dialogue with our tenants, which we believe enhances recurring cash flow and reduces periods of vacancy. 

External Growth through Acquisitions. 

We continue to grow our portfolio through disciplined acquisitions in prime Southern California infill markets. We believe that our relationship-, data- and event-driven research allows us to identify and exploit asset mispricing and market inefficiencies. We seek to acquire assets with value-add opportunities to increase their cash flow and asset values, often targeting off-market or lightly marketed transactions where our execution abilities and market credibility encourage owners to sell assets to us at what we consider pricing that is more favorable than heavily marketed transactions. We also seek to source transactions from owners with generational ownership shift, fund divestment, sale-leaseback/corporate surplus, maturing loans, some facing liquidity needs or financial stress, including loans that lack economical refinancing options. We also believe our deep market presence and relationships may enable us to selectively acquire assets in marketed transactions that may be difficult to access for less focused buyers. 

Competitive Strengths 

We believe that our investment strategy and operating model distinguishes us from other owners, operators and acquirers of industrial real estate in several important ways, including the following: 

Concentration of Industrial Assets in Southern California&#8217;s Infill Market : We intend to continue our core strategy of owning and operating industrial properties within Southern California&#8217;s infill regions. Infill markets are considered high barrier to entry markets with scarcity of vacant or developable land, and high concentrations of people, jobs, housing, income, wages and consumption. We believe Southern California&#8217;s infill industrial property market is the largest, most fragmented industrial market in the nation, demonstrating favorable long-term tenant demand fundamentals in the face of an ongoing scarcity of supply. We have a portfolio of interests in 120 &#32;properties totaling approximately 12.4 million &#32;square feet, which are all located in Southern California infill markets. 

Diversified Tenant Mix: Our portfolio is leased to a broad tenant base, drawn from diverse industry sectors. We believe that this diversification reduces our exposure to tenant default risk and earnings volatility. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 1,285 &#32;leases, with no single tenant accounting for more than 2.2% &#32;of our total annualized base rent. Our portfolio is also geographically diversified within the Southern California market across the following submarkets: Los Angeles ( 53% ); San Diego ( 16% ); Orange County ( 12% ); San Bernardino ( 9% ); Ventura ( 10% ). 

Superior Access to Deal Flow: We believe that we enjoy superior access to value-add, off-market, lightly marketed and marketed acquisition opportunities, many of which are difficult for competing investors to access. Off-market and lightly marketed transactions are characterized by a lack of a formal marketing process and a lack of widely disseminated marketing materials. Marketed transactions are often characterized by extensive buyer competition, making such transactions difficult to close on for less-focused investors. As we are principally focused on the Southern California market, our executive management and acquisition teams have developed and maintain a deep, broad network of relationships among key market participants, including property brokers, lenders, owners and tenants. We employ an extensive broker marketing, incentives and loyalty program. We also utilize data-driven and event-driven analytics and primary research to identify and pursue events and circumstances, including below-market leased properties, properties experiencing functional obsolescence, generational ownership changes, and financial stress related to properties, owners, lenders, and tenants, that tend to generate early access to emerging investment opportunities. 

Vertically Integrated Platform : &#32; We are a full-service real estate operating company, with substantial in-house capabilities in all aspects of our business. Our platform includes experienced in-house teams focused on acquisitions, analytics and underwriting, asset management and repositioning, property management, leasing, construction management and sales, as well as finance, accounting, legal and human relations departments. 

Value-Add Repositioning and Redevelopment Expertise : &#32; Our in-house redevelopment and construction management team employs an entrepreneurial approach to redevelopment and repositioning activities that are designed to increase the functionality and cash flow of our properties. These activities include converting large underutilized spaces into a series of smaller and more functional spaces, adding additional square footage and modernizing properties by, among other things, modernizing fire, life-safety and building operating systems, resolving functional obsolescence, adding or enhancing loading areas and truck access and making certain other accretive improvements. 

Growth-Oriented Capital Structure : &#32; Our capital structure provides us with financial flexibility and the capacity to fund future growth. At December 31, 2015 , our net debt to total market capitalization was 30.6% . We have a $300 million senior unsecured credit facility consisting of a $100 million term loan facility and a $200 million revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2015 , we had $100 million outstanding on the term loan facility and $140.5 million &#32;outstanding on the revolving credit facility, leaving $59.5 million &#32;available. The credit facility has an accordion feature that allows for an additional $300 million under either the term loan facility, revolving credit facility, or any combination thereof, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions and the identification of lenders willing to make available such additional amounts. 

Competition 

In acquiring our target properties, we compete with other public industrial property sector REITs, income oriented non-traded REITs, private real estate fund managers and local real estate investors and developers, many of which have greater financial resources or other competitive advantages than we do. We also face significant competition in leasing available properties to prospective tenants and in re-leasing space to existing tenants, including competition from the properties owned by Mr. Schwimmer. See &#8220;Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.&#8221; 

Insurance 

We carry commercial property, liability and terrorism coverage on all the properties in our portfolio under a blanket insurance policy. In addition, we hold environmental policies for properties with known environmental conditions that provides for coverage for potential environmental liabilities, subject to the policy&#8217;s coverage conditions and limitations. Generally, we 

do not carry insurance for certain types of extraordinary losses, including, but not limited to, losses caused by earthquakes, riots, war and wildfires. Substantially all of our properties are located in areas that are subject to earthquakes and are not currently insured against such an event (either with a blanket policy or individual property policies). However, seismic risks are evaluated for all properties during acquisition by a qualified structural engineer. The engineer evaluates the conditions of the physical structure as well as the known geological features in the area to create a statistical analysis of the site. To the extent that the engineer identifies a property with weaknesses that contribute to a high statistical risk, the property will be structurally retrofitted to reduce the statistical risk to an acceptable level. In addition to the aforementioned proactive retrofitting of buildings, we will continue to monitor third-party earthquake insurance pricing and conditions and may consider obtaining third-party coverage if we deem it cost effective. 

Segment and Geographic Financial Information 

We manage our operations on an aggregated, single segment basis for purposes of assessing performance and making operating decisions and, accordingly, we have only one reporting and operating segment. 

All of our business is conducted in Southern California. For information about our revenues, long-lived assets and other financial information, see our consolidated financial statements included in this report and &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we had 70 full-time employees. We believe that relations with our employees are good. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. 

Principal Executive Offices 

Our principal executive offices are located 11620 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 1000, Los Angeles, California 90025 (telephone 310-966-1680). We believe that our current facilities are adequate for our present and future operations. 

Available Information 

We file our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, Information Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE.; Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy details and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . 

Our website address is http://www.rexfordindustrial.com . We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, Information Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

Our board of directors maintains charters for each of its committees and has adopted a written set of corporate governance guidelines and a code of business conduct and ethics applicable to independent directors, executive officers, employees and agents, each of which is available for viewing on our website at http://www.rexfordindustrial.com &#32;under the heading &#8220;Investor Relations&#8212;Company Information&#8212;Governance Documents.&#8221; 

Website addresses referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained on our website is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report or documents we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

Regulation 

General 

Our properties are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas and fire and safety requirements. We believe that we have the necessary permits and approvals to operate each of our properties. 

Americans with Disabilities Act 

Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (the &#8220;ADA&#8221;) to the extent that such properties are &#8220;public accommodations&#8221; as defined under the ADA. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. Although we believe that the properties in our portfolio in the aggregate substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA, and we have not received any notice for correction from any regulatory agency, we have not conducted a comprehensive audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine whether we are in compliance and therefore we may own properties that are not in compliance with current ADA standards. 

ADA compliance is dependent upon the tenant&#8217;s specific use of the property, and as the use of a property changes or improvements to existing spaces are made, we will take steps to ensure compliance. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in additional costs to attain compliance, imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages plus attorney&#8217;s fees to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and make alterations to achieve compliance as deemed commercially reasonable. 

Environmental Matters 

The properties that we acquire are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require us, as owner of a contaminated property, to clean up the property, even if we did not know of or were not responsible for the contamination. These laws also apply to persons who owned a property at the time it became contaminated, and therefore it is possible we could incur these costs even after we sell some of the properties we acquire. In addition to the costs of cleanup, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner&#8217;s ability to borrow using the property as collateral or to sell the property. Under applicable environmental laws, courts and government agencies also have the authority to require that a person who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, pay for the clean-up of that facility if it becomes contaminated and threatens human health or the environment. 

Furthermore, various court decisions have established that third parties may recover damages for injury caused by property contamination. For instance, a person exposed to asbestos at one of our properties may seek to recover damages if he or she suffers injury from the asbestos. Lastly, some of these environmental laws restrict the use of a property or place conditions on various activities. An example would be laws that require a business using chemicals to manage them carefully and to notify local officials that the chemicals are being used. 

We could be responsible for any of the costs discussed above, which have the potential to be very significant. The costs to clean up a contaminated property, to defend against a claim, or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could adversely affect the funds available for distribution to our stockholders. We require Phase I or similar environmental assessments by independent environmental consultants at the time of acquisition of a property. Phase I environmental investigations are a common form of real estate due diligence that are governed by nationally recognized American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) standards and typically conducted by licensed environmental scientists. Phase I investigations commonly include a physical walk-through of the property in addition to a file review of the site. The file review includes creating a known operating history of the site. This includes but is not limited to inquiries with local governmental agencies as well as reviewing historical aerial reviews. If the consultant identifies any unexplained Recognized Environmental Concerns (&#8220;REC&#8221;) then the consultant typically recommends further investigation, usually through specific invasive property tests. This additional round of investigation is commonly referred to as a &#8220;Phase II&#8221;. Invasive testing may or may not include air, soil, soil vapor or ground water sampling. Additionally, it may or may not include an asbestos and/or lead based paint survey. Depending on the results of the initial Phase II investigation, the consultant may recommend further Phase II investigations, or if satisfied with the results, the consultant may decide the initial REC identified is no longer a concern. We generally expect to continue to obtain a Phase I or similar environmental site assessments by independent environmental consultants on each property prior to acquiring it. However, these environmental assessments may not reveal all environmental costs that might have a material adverse effect on our business, assets and results of operations or liquidity and may not identify all potential environmental liabilities. 

We can make no assurances that (1) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose material environmental liabilities on us, or (2) the current environmental condition of our properties will not be affected by tenants, the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of our properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks), or by third parties unrelated to us. 

