 Item 1. 

Business. 

General 

Founded in 1967 by Mr. Ralph Lauren, we are a global leader in the design, marketing, and distribution of premium lifestyle products, including apparel, accessories, home furnishings, and other licensed product categories. Our long-standing reputation and distinctive image have been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, brands, sales channels, and international markets. We believe that our global reach, breadth of product offerings, and multi-channel distribution are unique among luxury and apparel companies. 

We operate in three distinct but integrated segments: Wholesale, Retail, and Licensing. Our Wholesale business, representing approximately 45% &#32;of our Fiscal 2016 net revenues, consists of sales made principally to major department stores and specialty stores around the world. Our Retail business, representing approximately 53% &#32;of our Fiscal 2016 net revenues, consists of sales made directly to consumers through our integrated retail channel, which includes our retail stores, concession-based shop-within-shops, and e-commerce operations around the world. Our Licensing business, representing approximately 2% &#32;of our Fiscal 2016 net revenues, consists of royalty-based arrangements under which we license to unrelated third parties for specified periods the right to operate retail stores and/or to use our various trademarks in connection with the manufacture and sale of designated products, such as certain apparel, eyewear, fragrances, and home furnishings. Approximately 37% &#32;of our Fiscal 2016 net revenues were earned outside of the U.S. See Note 21 &#32;to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for a summary of net revenues, operating income, and total assets by reportable segment, as well as net revenues and long-lived assets by geographic location. 

Over the past five fiscal years, our sales have grown by approximately 8% &#32;to $7.405 billion &#32;in Fiscal 2016 &#32;from $6.860 billion &#32;in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 . This growth has been attributable to both our acquisitions and organic growth. We have diversified our business by channels of distribution, price point, and target consumer, as well as by geography. Our global reach is extensive, with merchandise available through our wholesale distribution channels at over 13,000 &#32;different retail locations worldwide. We also sell directly to customers throughout the world via our 493 &#32;retail stores and 583 &#32;concession-based shop-within-shops, as well as through our various e-commerce sites. In addition to our directly-operated stores and shops, our international licensing partners operate 93 &#32;Ralph Lauren stores, 42 &#32;Ralph Lauren concession shops, and 133 &#32;Club Monaco stores and shops. 

We continue to invest in our business. Over the past five fiscal years, we have invested approximately $1.849 billion &#32;for acquisitions and capital improvements, primarily funded through strong operating cash flow. We intend to continue to pursue select investment initiatives, which include expanding our presence internationally, extending our direct-to-consumer reach, expanding our accessories and other product and brand offerings, and investing in our operational infrastructure. See " Objectives and Opportunities " for further discussion of our opportunities for growth. 

We also continue to return value to our shareholders through our common stock share repurchases and payment of quarterly cash dividends. Over the past five fiscal years, the cost of shares of Class A common stock repurchased pursuant to our common stock repurchase program was approximately $2.373 billion &#32;and dividends paid amounted to approximately $679 million . 

We have been controlled by the Lauren family since the founding of our Company. As of April 2, 2016 , Mr. R. Lauren, or entities controlled by the Lauren family, held approximately 82% &#32;of the voting power of the Company's outstanding common stock. 

Seasonality of Business 

Our business is typically affected by seasonal trends, with higher levels of wholesale sales in our second and fourth fiscal quarters and higher retail sales in our second and third fiscal quarters. These trends result primarily from the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and key vacation travel, back-to-school, and holiday shopping periods impacting our Retail segment. As a result of growth and other changes in our business, along with changes in consumer spending patterns and the macroeconomic environment, historical quarterly operating trends and working capital requirements may not be indicative of our future performance. In addition, fluctuations in sales, operating income, and cash flows in any fiscal quarter may be affected by other events affecting retail sales, such as changes in weather patterns. 

Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working capital requirements typically increase during the first half of the fiscal year as inventory builds to support peak shipping/selling periods and, accordingly, typically decrease during the second half of the fiscal year as inventory is shipped/sold. Cash provided by operating activities is typically higher in the second half of the fiscal year due to reduced working capital requirements during that period. 

Objectives and Opportunities 

Our core strengths include a portfolio of global premium lifestyle brands, a proven ability to develop and extend the distribution of our brands through multiple channels in global markets, a disciplined investment philosophy supported by a strong balance sheet, and an experienced management team. Despite the various risks and uncertainties associated with the current global economic environment, as discussed further in Item 7 — " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Current Trends and Outlook, " we believe our core strengths will allow us the opportunity to execute our initiatives for long-term sustainable growth in revenue, net income, and operating cash flow. 

As our business has grown, our portfolio mix and brand control have evolved from primarily that of a mono-brand U.S.-centric menswear wholesaler with a broad array of product and geographic licenses to that of a portfolio of lifestyle brands with a "direct control" model over most of our brands, products, and international territories. We believe that this broader and better-diversified portfolio mix positions us for ongoing growth, allowing us to offer our customers a range of products, price points, and channels of distribution. We operate our retail business using an omni-channel retailing strategy that seeks to deliver an integrated shopping experience to our customers. We believe that our size and the global scope of our operations favorably position us to take advantage of synergies in design, sourcing, and distribution across our different businesses. 

While balancing our key long-term strategic objectives with our near-term priorities, we intend to continue to pursue select opportunities for growth during the course of Fiscal 2017 &#32;and beyond. These opportunities and continued investment initiatives include: 

-  International Growth; 

-  Direct-to-Consumer Growth; 

-  Product Innovation and Brand Extension Growth; 

-  Investment in Operational Infrastructure; 

-  Global Talent Development and Management; and 

-  Strong Financial Management and Cash Flow Reinvestment. 

In addition, we continue to develop and work towards finalizing our strategic growth plan for Fiscal 2017 and beyond, which once completed may result in modifications to the opportunities and investment initiatives described above. 

Recent Developments 

Global Reorganization Plan 

On May 12, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a reorganization and restructuring plan comprised of the following major actions: (i) the reorganization of the Company from its historical channel and regional structure to an integrated global brand-based operating structure, which will streamline our business processes to better align our cost structure with our long-term growth strategy; (ii) a strategic store and shop-within-shop performance review conducted by region and brand; (iii) a targeted corporate functional area review; and (iv) the consolidation of certain of our luxury lines (collectively, the "Global Reorganization Plan"). The Global Reorganization Plan has resulted in a reduction in workforce and the closure of certain stores and shop-within-shops. Actions associated with the Global Reorganization Plan were substantially completed during Fiscal 2016 and are expected to result in improved operational efficiencies by reducing annual operating expenses by approximately $125 million. 

In connection with the Global Reorganization Plan, we recorded total charges of $142 million &#32;during Fiscal 2016 (see Notes 10 and 11 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements) and expect to incur additional charges of approximately $5 million &#32;during Fiscal 2017. 

In addition, we continue to develop and work towards finalizing our strategic growth plan for Fiscal 2017 and beyond, which once completed will likely result in additional restructuring activities and related charges. 

Our Brands and Products 

Since 1967, our distinctive brand image has been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, price tiers, and markets. Our products, which include apparel, accessories, and fragrance collections for men and women, as well as childrenswear and home furnishings, comprise one of the world's most widely recognized families of consumer brands. Reflecting a distinctive American perspective, we have been an innovator in aspirational lifestyle branding and believe that, under the direction of internationally renowned designer Mr. Ralph Lauren, we have had a considerable influence on the way people dress and the way that fashion is advertised throughout the world. 

We combine consumer insight with our design, marketing, and imaging skills to offer, along with our licensing alliances, broad lifestyle product collections with a unified vision: 

-  Apparel — Our apparel products include extensive collections of men's, women's, and children's clothing, which are sold under various brand names, including Ralph Lauren Collection, Ralph Lauren Purple Label, Polo Ralph Lauren, Polo Sport, Double RL, Lauren Ralph Lauren, Ralph by Ralph Lauren, Polo and RLX Golf, Polo Ralph Lauren Children, Denim &amp; Supply Ralph Lauren, Chaps, Club Monaco, and American Living, among others; 

-  Accessories — Our accessories products encompass a broad range for both men and women, including footwear, eyewear, watches, fine jewelry, hats, belts, and leather goods, including handbags and luggage, which are sold under various brand names, including Ralph Lauren Collection, Ralph Lauren Purple Label, Double RL, Polo Ralph Lauren, Lauren Ralph Lauren, Polo Ralph Lauren Children, and Club Monaco, among others; 

-  Home — Our coordinated home products include bedding and bath products, furniture, fabric and wallpaper, lighting, paint, tabletop, and giftware; 

-  Fragrance — Our fragrance products capture the essence of Ralph Lauren's men's and women's brands with numerous labels, designed to appeal to a variety of audiences. Women's fragrance products are sold under our Safari, Ralph Lauren Blue, Lauren, Romance collection, RALPH collection, and Big Pony collection brands. Men's fragrance products are sold under our Safari, Polo Sport, Polo Green, Polo Blue, Polo Blue Sport, Purple Label, Polo Black, Double Black, Big Pony collection, Polo Red collection, and Polo Supreme Oud brands; and 

-  Restaurants — Our restaurants translate Mr. R. Lauren's distinctive vision into places to gather with family and friends to enjoy fine food. Our restaurants include The Polo Bar &#32;and Ralph’s Coffee &#32;located in New York City, RL Restaurant &#32;located in Chicago, and Ralph’s &#32;located in Paris. 

Our lifestyle brand image is reinforced by our distribution through our stores and concession-based shop-within-shops, our wholesale channels of distribution, our global e-commerce sites, and our Ralph Lauren restaurants. We organize our brands into the following six distinct global brand groups: 

1. 

Ralph Lauren Luxury — Our Ralph Lauren Luxury global brand group includes: 

Ralph Lauren Collection and Ralph Lauren Purple Label. The runway sets the stage for each season's Ralph Lauren Collection designs, which includes handmade evening gowns with exquisite detail and refined, hand-tailored suitings. For men, Ralph Lauren Purple Label offers refined suitings, custom tailored made-to-measure suits, and sophisticated sportswear, as well as benchmade footwear and made-to-order dress furnishings, accessories, and luggage. Ralph Lauren Collection and Ralph Lauren Purple Label are available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, an exclusive selection of the finest specialty stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. 

Double RL. Founded in 1993 and named after Ralph Lauren and his wife Ricky's "RRL" ranch in Colorado, Double RL for men and women offers a mix of selvedge denim, vintage apparel, sportswear, and accessories, with roots in workwear and military gear. Double RL is available at Double RL stores, at select Ralph Lauren stores, and an exclusive selection of the finest specialty stores around the world, as well as online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. 

Ralph Lauren Watches and Fine Jewelry. In 2008, Ralph Lauren, together with internationally renowned luxury group Compagnie Financi&#232;re Richemont SA, launched a premier collection of timepieces through the Ralph Lauren Watch &amp; Jewelry Co. The four pillar collections — the iconic Ralph Lauren Stirrup, the refined Ralph Lauren Slim Classique, the Ralph Lauren Sporting, and the 867 Collection — embody Mr. Ralph Lauren's passion for impeccable quality and exquisite design. The Ralph Lauren Watch &amp; Jewelry Co. also offers premier collections of fine jewelry, including the Ralph Lauren Diamond Link Collection, Ralph Lauren Equestrian Collection, and Ralph Lauren Chunky Chains Collection, all capturing the glamour and craftsmanship of Ralph Lauren's most luxurious designs. Ralph Lauren watches and fine jewelry are available at select Ralph Lauren stores and flagship locations around the world. A selection of watches is also available online at RalphLauren.com and the finest watch retailers. 

2. 

Polo Ralph Lauren — Our Polo Ralph Lauren global brand group includes: 

Polo Ralph Lauren. Men's Polo combines Ivy League classics and time-honored English haberdashery with downtown styles and all-American sporting looks in sportswear and tailored clothing. Women's Polo is targeted towards the young, modern girl and mixes romantic bohemian style with cool sportiness. Polo's signature aesthetic includes our renowned polo player logo. Men's and Women's Polo apparel and accessories are available in Polo and Ralph Lauren stores around the world, better department and specialty stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. 

Polo Sport. Polo Sport is our next evolution of modern activewear for men, women, and children. In 2014, we debuted the PoloTech&#8482; shirt, featuring groundbreaking smart fabric technology that captures robust biometrics from the wearer. Polo Sport is available at select Polo and Ralph Lauren stores, better department stores, and online at our e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. 

Polo and RLX Golf. Tested and worn by top-ranked professional golfers, Polo and RLX Golf for men and women define excellence in the world of golf. With a sharpened focus on the needs of the modern player but rooted in the rich design tradition of Ralph Lauren, the Golf collections combine state-of-the-art performance wear with luxurious finishing touches. Over the years, Polo and RLX Golf have been proud to sponsor Tom Watson, Davis Love III, Jonathan Byrd, Justin Thomas, Luke Donald, Matteo Manassero, and Billy Horschel, among others. The Polo and RLX Golf collections are available in select Polo stores, exclusive private clubs and resorts, and online at RalphLauren.com. 

Polo Ralph Lauren Children. Polo Ralph Lauren Children is designed to reflect the timeless heritage and modern spirit of Ralph Lauren’s collections for men and women. Signature classics include iconic polo knit shirts and luxurious cashmere cable-knit sweaters. Polo Ralph Lauren Children is available in a full range of sizes, from baby to girls 2-16 and boys 2-20. Polo Ralph Lauren Children can be found in select Polo and Ralph Lauren stores around the world, better department stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com, as well as certain of our retailer partner e-commerce sites. 

Pink Pony. Established in 2000, the Pink Pony campaign is our worldwide initiative in the fight against cancer. In the United States, a percentage of sales from Pink Pony products benefit the Pink Pony Fund of The Polo Ralph Lauren Foundation, which supports programs for early diagnosis, education, treatment, and research, and is dedicated to bringing patient navigation and quality cancer care to medically underserved communities. Internationally, a network of local cancer charities around the world benefit from the sale of Pink Pony products. Pink Pony primarily consists of slim-fitting women's sportswear and accessories crafted in luxurious fabrics. All Pink Pony items feature our iconic pink polo player — a symbol of our commitment to the fight against cancer. Pink Pony is available at select Polo and Ralph Lauren stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. Pink Pony is also available at select Macy's stores and online at Macys.com. 

3. 

Lauren — Our Lauren global brand group includes: 

Lauren Ralph Lauren. Lauren for women offers sophisticated sportswear, denim, dresses, activewear, and a wide array of accessories and footwear at a more accessible price point. Lauren for women is available in select department stores around the world and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. Lauren for men offers a complete collection of men's tailored clothing, including suits, sport coats, dress shirts, dress pants, tuxedos, topcoats, and ties at a more accessible price point. Lauren for men is available at select department stores in North America and Europe. 

Ralph by Ralph Lauren. &#32;Ralph by Ralph Lauren offers suit separates, sport coats, vests, and topcoats with refined luxury at an excellent value. Ralph by Ralph Lauren is available exclusively at Dillard's stores and online at Dillards.com. 

Chaps. Chaps represents a complete lifestyle collection for the entire family and home, with casual sportswear, workday essentials, and fashionable dresses. The Chaps men's, women's, and children's collections are available at select stores in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Europe, and the United Arab Emirates. Chaps Home is available exclusively at Kohl's and online at Kohl's.com. 

American Living. American Living for women offers a world of fashion with everyday essentials, as well as dresses for special occasions at an incredible value. American Living is available at Macy's and Belk stores, and online at Macys.com and Belk.com. 

4. 

Denim &amp; Supply — Inspired by the warehouse and artist communities of Brooklyn, New York, and the authentic style found in the music festival scene, Denim &amp; Supply represents a laid-back style of clothes that is urban, rustic, and bohemian. Denim &amp; Supply Ralph Lauren is available at our Denim &amp; Supply stores around the world, at Macy's and Hudson's Bay in North America, select department stores in Europe and Asia, and in specialty stores and concession shops in Asia. In addition, Denim &amp; Supply is available online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. 

5. 

Club Monaco — Founded in 1985, Club Monaco designs and markets its own clothing and accessories for men and women, offering key fashion pieces with modern, urban sophistication and a selection of updated classics. Club Monaco apparel and accessories are available exclusively at Club Monaco stores around the world, as well as online at our Club Monaco e-commerce sites, ClubMonaco.com and ClubMonaco.ca. Club Monaco is also available in Asia through our licensing arrangements. 

6. 

Ralph Lauren Home — Ralph Lauren Home presents home furnishings and accessories that reflect the style and craftsmanship synonymous with the name Ralph Lauren. Ralph Lauren Home includes furniture, bed and bath linens, china, crystal, silver, decorative accessories and gifts, as well as lighting, fabric, wallcovering, and floorcovering. Ralph Lauren Home offers exclusive luxury goods at select Ralph Lauren stores, home specialty stores, trade showrooms, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. The complete world of Ralph Lauren Home can be explored online at RalphLaurenHome.com. Ralph Lauren also offers paint in over 400 palettes. Ralph Lauren Paint is offered at select specialty stores in the U.S. and The Home Depot. The complete color palette, paint how-to's, and a guide to professional painters can be explored online at RalphLaurenPaint.com. 

Our Wholesale Segment 

Our Wholesale segment sells our products globally to leading upscale and certain mid-tier department stores, specialty stores, and golf and pro shops. We have continued to focus on elevating our brand by improving in-store product assortment and presentation, as well as full-price sell-throughs to consumers. As of the end of Fiscal 2016 , our wholesale products were sold through over 13,000 &#32;doors worldwide and we invested $43 million &#32;of capital in related shop-within-shops during Fiscal 2016 , primarily in domestic and international department and specialty stores. Our products are also sold through the e-commerce sites of certain of our wholesale customers. 

The primary product offerings sold through our wholesale channels of distribution include apparel, accessories, and home furnishings. Our luxury brands — Ralph Lauren Collection and Ralph Lauren Purple Label — are distributed worldwide through a limited number of premier fashion retailers. Department stores are our major wholesale customers in North America. In Latin America, our wholesale products are sold in department stores and specialty stores. In Europe, our wholesale sales are comprised of a varying mix of sales to both department stores and specialty stores, depending on the country. In Asia, our wholesale products are distributed primarily through shop-within-shops at department stores. We also distribute our wholesale products to certain licensed stores operated by our partners in Latin America, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. 

We sell the majority of our excess and out-of-season products through secondary distribution channels worldwide, including our retail factory stores. 

Worldwide Wholesale Distribution Channels 

The following table presents the number of doors by geographic location in which products distributed by our Wholesale segment were sold to consumers in our primary channels of distribution as of April 2, 2016 : 

Location 

Number of Doors 

The Americas (a) 

7,741 

Europe (b) 

5,625 

Asia (c) 

Total 

13,502 

(a) 

Includes the U.S., Canada, and Latin America. 

(b) &#32;&#32; 

Includes the Middle East. 

(c) &#32;&#32; 

Includes Australia and New Zealand. 

We have three key wholesale customers that generate significant sales volume. During Fiscal 2016 , sales to our largest wholesale customer, Macy's, Inc. ("Macy's"), accounted for approximately 11% &#32;and 25% &#32;of our total net revenues and total Wholesale net revenues, respectively. Further, during Fiscal 2016 , sales to our three largest wholesale customers, including Macy's, accounted for approximately 24% &#32;and 53% &#32;of our total net revenues and total Wholesale net revenues, respectively. 

Our products are sold primarily by our own sales forces. Our Wholesale segment maintains its primary showrooms in New York City. In addition, we maintain regional showrooms in Milan, Paris, London, Munich, Madrid, Stockholm, and Panama. 

Shop-within-Shops. As a critical element of our distribution to department stores, we and our licensing partners utilize shop-within-shops to enhance brand recognition, to permit more complete merchandising of our lines by the department stores, and to differentiate the presentation of our products. 

As of April 2, 2016 , we had approximately 25,000 &#32;shop-within-shops in our primary channels of distribution dedicated to our wholesale products worldwide. The size of our shop-within-shops ranges from approximately 100 to 9,200 square feet. Shop-within-shop fixed assets primarily include items such as customized freestanding fixtures, wall cases and components, decorative items, and flooring. We normally share in the cost of building out these shop-within-shops with our wholesale customers. 

Basic Stock Replenishment Program. Basic products such as knit shirts, chino pants, oxford cloth shirts, select accessories, and home products can be ordered by our wholesale customers at any time through our basic stock replenishment program. We generally ship these products within two to five days of order receipt. 

Our Retail Segment 

Our Retail segment sells directly to customers throughout the world via our 493 &#32;retail stores, totaling approximately 3.8 million &#32;square feet, and 583 &#32;concession-based shop-within-shops, as well as through our various e-commerce sites. The extension of our direct-to-consumer reach is one of our primary long-term strategic goals. We operate our retail business using an omni-channel retailing strategy that seeks to deliver an integrated shopping experience with a consistent message of our brands and products to our customers, regardless of whether they are shopping for our products in one of our physical stores or online. 

Ralph Lauren Stores 

Our Ralph Lauren stores feature a broad range of apparel, accessories, watch and jewelry, fragrance, and home product assortments in an atmosphere reflecting the distinctive attitude and image of the Ralph Lauren, Polo, Double RL, and Denim &amp; Supply brands, including exclusive merchandise that is not sold in department stores. During Fiscal 2016 , we opened 22 &#32;new Ralph Lauren stores and closed 21 &#32;stores. Our Ralph Lauren stores are primarily situated in major upscale street locations and upscale regional malls, generally in large urban markets. 

We operated the following Ralph Lauren stores as of April 2, 2016 : 

Location 

Ralph Lauren Stores 

The Americas (a) 

Europe 

Asia (b) 

Total 

(a) &#32;&#32; 

Includes the U.S. and Canada. 

(b) &#32;&#32; 

Includes Australia. 

Our nine &#32;flagship Ralph Lauren store locations showcase our iconic styles and products and demonstrate our most refined merchandising techniques. In addition to generating sales of our products, our worldwide Ralph Lauren stores establish, reinforce, and capitalize on the image of our brands. Our Ralph Lauren stores range in size from approximately 700 to 39,000 square feet. 

Club Monaco Stores 

Our Club Monaco stores feature fashion apparel and accessories for both men and women with clean and contemporary signature styles. During Fiscal 2016 , we opened 16 &#32;new Club Monaco stores and closed three &#32;stores. Our Club Monaco stores range in size from approximately 700 to 17,400 square feet. 

We operated the following Club Monaco stores as of April 2, 2016 : 

Location 

Club Monaco Stores 

The Americas (a) 

Europe 

Total 

(a) &#32;&#32; 

Includes the U.S. and Canada. 

Factory Stores 

We extend our reach to additional consumer groups through our 272 &#32;factory stores worldwide, which are principally located in major outlet centers. During Fiscal 2016 , we added 32 &#32;new factory stores and closed 19 &#32;factory stores. 

We operated the following factory stores as of April 2, 2016 : 

Location 

Factory Stores 

The Americas (a) 

Europe 

Asia (b) 

Total 

(a) &#32;&#32; 

Includes the U.S. and Canada. 

(b) &#32;&#32; 

Includes Australia. 

Our worldwide factory stores offer selections of our apparel, accessories, and fragrances. In addition to these product offerings, certain of our factory stores in the Americas offer home furnishings. Our factory stores range in size from approximately 1,400 to 26,700 &#32;square feet. 

Factory stores obtain products from our suppliers, our product licensing partners, and our other retail stores and e-commerce operations, and also serve as a secondary distribution channel for our excess and out-of-season products. 

Concession-based Shop-within-Shops 

The terms of trade for shop-within-shops are largely conducted on a concession basis, whereby inventory continues to be owned by us (not the department store) until ultimate sale to the end consumer. The salespeople involved in the sales transactions are generally our employees and not those of the department store. 

As of April 2, 2016 , we had 583 &#32;concession-based shop-within-shops at 257 &#32;retail locations dedicated to our products, which were located in Asia, Australia, and Europe. The size of our concession-based shop-within-shops ranges from approximately 200 to 3,300 square feet. We may share in the cost of building out certain of these shop-within-shops with our department store partners. 

E-commerce Websites 

In addition to our stores, our Retail segment sells products online through our e-commerce channel, which includes: 

-  Our North American e-commerce sites located at www.RalphLauren.com and www.ClubMonaco.com, as well as our Club Monaco site in Canada located at www.ClubMonaco.ca; 

-  Our Ralph Lauren &#32; e-commerce sites in Europe, including www.RalphLauren.co.uk, www.RalphLauren.fr, and www.RalphLauren.de; and 

-  Our Ralph Lauren &#32; e-commerce sites in Asia, including www.RalphLauren.co.jp, www.RalphLauren.co.kr, www.RalphLauren.asia, and www.RalphLauren.com.au. 

Our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites offer our customers access to a broad array of Ralph Lauren, Double RL, Polo, and Denim &amp; Supply apparel, accessories, watch and jewelry, fragrance, and home product assortments, and reinforce the luxury image of our brands. While investing in e-commerce operations remains a primary focus, it is an extension of our investment in the integrated omni-channel strategy used to operate our overall retail business, in which our e-commerce operations are interdependent with our physical stores. 

Our Club Monaco e-commerce sites offer our domestic and Canadian customers access to our global assortment of Club Monaco apparel and accessories product lines, as well as select online exclusives. 

Our Licensing Segment 

Through licensing alliances, we combine our consumer insight, design, and marketing skills with the specific product or geographic competencies of our licensing partners to create and build new businesses. We generally seek out licensing partners who are leaders in their respective markets, contribute the majority of the product development costs, provide the operational infrastructure required to support the business, and own the inventory. 

Product Licensing 

We grant our product licensees the right to manufacture and sell at wholesale specified categories of products under one or more of our trademarks. Each product licensing partner pays us royalties based upon its sales of our products, generally subject to a minimum royalty requirement for the right to use our trademarks and design services. In addition, our licensing partners may be required to allocate a portion of their revenues to advertising our products and sharing in the creative costs associated with these products. Larger allocations typically are required in connection with launches of new products or in new territories. Our license agreements generally have one to five-year terms and may grant the licensees conditional renewal options. 

We work closely with all of our licensing partners to ensure that their products are developed, marketed, and distributed to reach the intended consumer and are presented consistently across product categories to convey the distinctive identity and lifestyle associated with our brands. Virtually all aspects of the design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising, and promotion of Ralph Lauren products are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight. We perform a broader range of services for most of our Ralph Lauren Home licensing partners than we do for our other licensing partners, including design, operating showrooms, marketing, and advertising. 

Approximately 44% &#32;of our licensing revenue for Fiscal 2016 &#32;was earned from our four &#32;largest licensing partners: Luxottica Group, S.p.A., L'Oreal S.A., Peerless Clothing International, Inc., and Hanesbrands, Inc. The following table lists our largest licensing agreements as of April 2, 2016 . Except as noted in the table, these product licenses cover North America only. 

Category 

Licensed Products 

Licensing Partners 

Men's Apparel 

Underwear and Sleepwear 

Hanesbrands, Inc. (includes Japan) 

Chaps, Lauren, and Ralph Tailored Clothing 

Peerless Clothing International, Inc. 

Beauty Products 

Fragrances, Cosmetics, Color, and Skin Care 

L'Oreal S.A. (global) 

Accessories 

Eyewear 

Luxottica Group, S.p.A. (global) 

Home (a) 

Bedding and Bath 

Ichida Co., Ltd. and Kohl's Illinois, Inc. 

Utility and Blankets 

Hollander Sleep Products LLC, Ichida Co., Ltd., and Kohl's Illinois, Inc. 

Fabric and Wallpaper 

P. Kaufmann, Inc. 

(a) &#32;&#32; 

Our Home products are sold under our Ralph Lauren Home, Lauren Ralph Lauren, and Chaps brands. As of April 2, 2016 , we had agreements with 11 &#32;Home product licensing partners. 

International Licensing 

We believe that international markets offer additional opportunities for our iconic designs and lifestyle image. Our international licensing partners acquire the right to sell, promote, market, and/or distribute various categories of our products in a given geographic area and source products from us, our product licensing partners, and independent sources. The international licensees' rights may include the right to own and operate retail stores. As of April 2, 2016 , our international licensing partners operated 93 &#32;Ralph Lauren stores, 42 &#32;Ralph Lauren concession shops, and 133 &#32;Club Monaco stores and shops. 

Product Design 

Our products reflect a timeless and innovative interpretation of American style with a strong international appeal. Our consistent emphasis on new and distinctive design has been an important contributor to the prominence, strength, and reputation of the Ralph Lauren brands. 

Our Ralph Lauren products are designed by, and under the direction of, Mr. Ralph Lauren and our design staff. We form design teams around our brands and product categories to develop concepts, themes, and products for each brand and category. Through close collaboration with merchandising, sales, and production staff, these teams support all three segments of our business — Wholesale, Retail, and Licensing — in order to gain market information and other valuable input. 

Marketing and Advertising 

Our marketing and advertising programs communicate the themes and images of our brands and are integral to our product offerings. The majority of our advertising program is created and executed on a centralized basis through our in-house creative and advertising organization to ensure consistency of presentation, which is complemented by our marketing experts in each region who help to execute our international strategies. 

We create distinctive image advertising for our brands, conveying the particular message of each one within the context of the overall Ralph Lauren aesthetic. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle rather than a specific item and include a variety of products offered by ourselves and, in some cases, our licensing partners. Our communication campaigns are primarily executed through a combination of print, outdoor, digital, and social media platforms, and, to a lesser extent, through television and cinema. 

Our digital advertising programs focus on high impact and innovative digital media outlets, which allow us to convey our key brand messages and lifestyle positioning. We also develop digital editorial initiatives that allow for deeper education and engagement around the Ralph Lauren lifestyle, including the Ralph Lauren magazine, style guides, and videos. We deploy these 

marketing and advertising initiatives through online, mobile, email, and social media. Our e-commerce sites present the Ralph Lauren lifestyle online, while offering a broad array of our apparel, accessories, and home product lines. 

We advertise in consumer and trade print and digital media, and participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with some of our retail and licensing partners. We also provide point-of-sale fixtures and signage to our wholesale customers to enhance the presentation of our products at their retail locations. In addition, when our licensing partners are required to spend an amount equal to a percentage of their licensed product sales on advertising, we coordinate the advertising placement on their behalf. We believe our investments in shop-within-shop environments and retail stores, including our global flagship locations, contribute to and enhance the themes of our brands to consumers. We expensed approximately $280 million &#32;related to the advertising and marketing of our products in Fiscal 2016 . 

We also conduct a variety of public relations activities. Each spring and fall, our Ralph Lauren Women's Collection is presented during New York Fashion Week. We also introduce each of the spring and fall menswear and womenswear collections at press presentations in major cities such as New York City and Milan. These fashion events, in addition to celebrity red carpet dressing moments, model appearances, as well as events hosted in-store and in our restaurant in New York, The Polo Bar, generate extensive domestic and international media and social coverage. 

We continue to be the official outfitter for all on-court officials at both the Wimbledon and the U.S. Open tennis tournaments. Both tournaments provide worldwide exposure for our brand in a relevant lifestyle environment. We also continue to be the exclusive Official Parade Outfitter for the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Teams, with the right to manufacture, distribute, advertise, promote, and sell products in the U.S. which replicate the Parade Outfits and associated leisure wear. Most recently, we dressed Team U.S.A. for the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi and will be dressing the team for the 2016 Summer Olympic Games in Rio. As part of our involvement with Team U.S.A., we have established a partnership with athletes serving as brand ambassadors and as the faces of our advertising, marketing, and public relations campaigns. 

Under our agreement with the United States Golf Association ("USGA"), we continue to be the official apparel outfitter for the USGA and the U.S. Open Championships and serve as the championship's largest on-site apparel supplier. Additionally, under our agreement with The Royal &amp; Ancient, we are an Official Patron of The Open Championship that is played annually on British links golf courses. As part of this agreement, we are outfitting all officials and staff members at The Open Championship and are serving as the championship's largest on-site apparel retailer. 

We believe our partnerships with such prestigious global athletic events reinforce our brand's sporting heritage in a truly authentic way and serve to connect our Company and brands to our consumers through their individual areas of passion. 

Sourcing, Production and Quality 

We contract for the manufacture of our products and do not own or operate any production facilities. Over 600 different manufacturers worldwide produce our apparel, accessories, and home products, with no one manufacturer providing more than 5% &#32;of our total production during Fiscal 2016 . We source both finished products and raw materials. Raw materials include fabric, buttons, and other trim. Finished products consist of manufactured and fully assembled products ready for shipment to our customers. In Fiscal 2016 , over 97% &#32;of our products (by dollar value) were produced outside of the U.S., primarily in Asia, Europe, and Latin America. See "Import Restrictions and Other Government Regulations" and Item 1A — " Risk Factors — Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight, or labor; or a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications ." 

Most of our businesses must commit to the manufacturing of our garments before we sell finished goods, whether to wholly-owned retail stores or to wholesale customers. We also must commit to the purchase of fabric from mills well in advance of our sales. If we overestimate our primary customers' demand for a particular product or the need for a particular fabric or yarn, we primarily sell the excess products or garments made from such fabric or yarn in our factory stores or through other secondary distribution channels. 

Suppliers operate under the close supervision of our global manufacturing division and buying agents headquartered in Asia, the Americas, the Middle East, and Europe. All products are produced according to our specifications. Production and quality control staff in Asia, the Americas, the Middle East, and Europe monitor manufacturing at supplier facilities in order to correct problems prior to shipment of the final product. Procedures have been implemented under our vendor certification and compliance programs so that quality assurance is reviewed early in the production process, allowing merchandise to be received at the distribution facilities and shipped to customers with minimal interruption. 

Competition 

Competition is very strong in the segments of the fashion and consumer product industries in which we operate. We compete with numerous designers and manufacturers of apparel and accessories, fragrances, and home furnishing products, both domestic and international. Some of our competitors may be significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than us. We compete primarily on the basis of fashion, quality, value, and service, which depend on our ability to: 

-  anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; 

-  maintain favorable brand recognition, loyalty, and reputation for quality; 

-  develop and produce high quality products that appeal to consumers; 

-  appropriately source raw materials at cost-effective prices; 

-  appropriately price our products; 

-  provide strong and effective marketing support; 

-  ensure product availability; and 

-  obtain additional points of distribution and sufficient retail floor space, and effectively present our products to consumers. 

See Item 1A — " Risk Factors — We face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate ." 

Distribution 

To facilitate global distribution, our products are shipped from manufacturers to a network of distribution centers around the world for inspection, sorting, packing, and delivery to our retail locations and wholesale customers. This network includes the following primary distribution facilities: 

Geographic Region 

Facility Type 

Facility Location 

Facility 

Ownership 

U.S. 

Wholesale and Retail distribution center 

Greensboro, North Carolina 

Owned 

Wholesale and Retail distribution center 

High Point, North Carolina 

Leased 

Wholesale distribution center 

High Point, North Carolina 

Leased 

Retail distribution center 

High Point, North Carolina (a) 

Owned 

Distribution center 

Chino Hills, California 

Third-party 

Distribution center 

Miami, Florida 

Third-party 

Canada 

Distribution center 

Toronto, Ontario (b) 

Third-party 

Europe 

Distribution center 

Parma, Italy (c) 

Third-party 

Japan 

Distribution center 

Yokohama, Japan (d) 

Third-party 

South Korea 

Distribution center 

Bugok, South Korea (e) 

Leased 

Greater China and Southeast Asia (f) 

Distribution center 

Tuen Mun, Hong Kong (g) 

Third-party 

Latin America 

Distribution center 

Col&#243;n, Panama 

Third-party 

(a) 

This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for our RalphLauren.com and ClubMonaco.com e-commerce operations and our Ralph Lauren, Polo, and Club Monaco retail stores located in the U.S. 

(b) 

This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for our businesses in Canada, including our e-commerce operations. 

(c) 

This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for our European businesses, including our e-commerce operations. 

(d) 

This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for our businesses in Japan, including our e-commerce operations. 

(e) 

This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for our businesses in South Korea, including our e-commerce operations. 

(f) 

Includes China, Hong Kong, Macau, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, Australia, and New Zealand. 

(g) 

This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for our businesses in Greater China and Southeast Asia, including our e-commerce operations. 

All facilities are designed to allow for high-density cube storage and value-added services, and utilize unit and carton tracking technology to facilitate process control and inventory management. The distribution network is managed through globally integrated information technology systems. 

Management Information Systems 

Our management information systems make the design, marketing, manufacturing, importing, and distribution of our products more efficient by providing, among other things: 

-  comprehensive order processing; 

-  production and design information; 

-  accounting information; and 

-  an enterprise view of information for our design, marketing, manufacturing, importing, and distribution functions. 

The point-of-sale registers, in conjunction with other systems in our stores, enable us to track inventory from store receipt to final sale on a real-time basis. We believe our merchandising and financial systems, coupled with our point-of-sale registers and software programs, allow for efficient stock replenishment, effective merchandise planning, and real-time inventory and sales accounting. 

In the U.S. and Europe, we utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic stock replenishment orders from our Retail segment and wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting purposes. In the U.S. and Europe, we also utilize an automated allocation system to facilitate the flow of inventory for our Retail segment. 

We are in the process of implementing a global operating and financial reporting information technology system, SAP, as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our systems and processes. The implementation of this global system is scheduled to occur in phases over the next several years. We substantially completed the migration of our North America operations to SAP during Fiscal 2015, and we are currently in the process of executing the migration of our European operations to SAP, which is expected to be completed during Fiscal 2017. In addition to implementing SAP, we also completed the migration of our North America operations to a new procure-to-pay platform during Fiscal 2016, and we expect to execute the migration of our European operations to this new platform during Fiscal 2017. We are also in the process of building an in-house global e-commerce platform as part of our plan to further enhance our omni-channel capabilities. Rollout of the new global e-commerce platform is expected to be completed in 2018. 

See Item 1A — " Risk Factors — Risk and uncertainties associated with the implementation of information systems may negatively impact our business, " " Risk Factors — A data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to litigation risk, and adversely affect our business, " and " Risk Factors — Our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively ." 

Wholesale Credit Control 

We manage our own credit function. We sell our merchandise principally to major department stores and extend credit based on an evaluation of the wholesale customer's financial capacity and condition, usually without requiring collateral. We monitor credit levels and the financial condition of our wholesale customers on a continuing basis to minimize credit risk. We do not factor or underwrite our accounts receivables, or maintain credit insurance to manage the risk of bad debts. In North America, collection and deduction transactional activities are provided through a third-party service provider. See Item 1A — " Risk 

Factors — A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a limited number of large wholesale customers. Our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, other ownership changes in the retail industry, and/or any financial instability of our large wholesale customers ." 

Wholesale Backlog 

We generally receive wholesale orders approximately three to five months prior to the time the products are delivered to customers, with the exception of orders received through our basic stock replenishment program, which ship within two to five days of order receipt. Our wholesale orders are generally subject to broad cancellation rights. Our total backlog was approximately $1.4 billion &#32;and $1.6 billion &#32;as of April 2, 2016 &#32;and March 28, 2015 , respectively. We expect that substantially all of our backlog orders as of April 2, 2016 &#32;will be filled within the next fiscal year. 

The size of our order backlog depends upon a number of factors, including the timing of the market weeks for our particular lines during which a significant percentage of our orders are received and the timing of shipments, which varies from year-to-year with consideration for holidays, consumer trends, concept plans, and the basic stock replenishment program's usage. As a consequence, a comparison of the size of our order backlog from period to period may not be meaningful, nor may it be indicative of eventual shipments. 

Trademarks 

We own the RALPH LAUREN, POLO, POLO BY RALPH LAUREN DESIGN, and the famous polo player astride a horse trademarks in the U.S. and approximately 120 countries worldwide. Other trademarks that we own include: 

-  PURPLE LABEL; 

-  DOUBLE RL; 

-  RRL; 

-  RLX; 

-  LAUREN RALPH LAUREN; 

-  DENIM &amp; SUPPLY RALPH LAUREN; 

-  PINK PONY; 

-  LAUREN; 

-  RALPH; 

-  CHAPS; 

-  CLUB MONACO; 

-  AMERICAN LIVING; and 

-  Various other trademarks, including those pertaining to fragrances and cosmetics. 

Mr. Ralph Lauren has the royalty-free right to use as trademarks RALPH LAUREN, DOUBLE RL, and RRL in perpetuity in connection with, among other things, beef and living animals. The trademarks DOUBLE RL and RRL are currently used by the Double RL Company, an entity wholly-owned by Mr. R. Lauren. In addition, Mr. R. Lauren has the right to engage in personal projects involving film or theatrical productions (not including or relating to our business) through RRL Productions, Inc., a company wholly-owned by Mr. R. Lauren. Any activity by these companies has no impact on us. 

Our trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of items of apparel, apparel-related products, home furnishings, restaurant and caf&#233; services, online services and online publications, and beauty products, as well as in connection with retail services, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks are used in connection with the related products and services and the required registration renewals are filed. We regard the license to use the trademarks and our other proprietary rights in and to the trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and, on a worldwide basis, vigorously seek to protect them against infringement. As a result of the appeal of our trademarks, our products have been the object of counterfeiting. While we have a broad enforcement program which has been generally effective in protecting our intellectual property rights and limiting the sale of counterfeit products in the U.S. and in most major markets abroad, we face greater challenges with respect to enforcing our rights against trademark infringement in certain parts of Asia. 

In markets outside of the U.S., our rights to some or all of our trademarks may not be clearly established. In the course of our international expansion, we have experienced conflicts with various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in certain trademarks, including POLO and/or a representation of a Polo Player Design, which impede our use and registration of our principal trademarks. While such conflicts are common and may arise again from time to time as we continue our international expansion, we have, in general, successfully resolved such conflicts in the past through both legal action and negotiated settlements with third-party owners of the conflicting marks (see Item 1A — " Risk Factors — Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the U.S. " and Item 3 — " Legal Proceedings " for further discussion). Although we have not suffered any material restraints or restrictions on doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce trademarks to new markets. 

Import Restrictions and Other Government Regulations 

Virtually all of our merchandise imported into the Americas, Europe, Asia, Australia, and New Zealand is subject to duties. In addition, most of the countries to which we ship could impose safeguard quotas and duties to protect their local industries from import surges that threaten to create market disruption. The U.S. and other countries may also unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported (from China or other countries) at unfairly traded prices in such increased quantities that would cause (or threaten) injury to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as "anti-dumping" actions). If dumping is suspected in the U.S., the U.S. government may self-initiate a dumping case on behalf of the U.S. textile industry which could significantly affect our costs. Furthermore, additional duties, generally known as countervailing duties, can also be imposed by the U.S. government to offset subsidies provided by a foreign government to foreign manufacturers if the importation of such subsidized merchandise injures or threatens to injure a U.S. industry. Legislative proposals have been introduced which, if adopted, would treat a manipulation by China of the value of its currency as actionable under the anti-dumping or countervailing duty laws. 

We are also subject to other international trade agreements and regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Central American Free Trade Agreement, the U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement, the U.S.-Jordan Free Trade Agreement, and other special trade preference programs. A portion of our imported products are eligible for certain of these duty-advantaged programs. In addition, each of the countries in which our products are sold has laws and regulations covering imports. Because the U.S. and the other countries in which our products are manufactured and sold may, from time to time, impose new duties, tariffs, surcharges, or other import controls or restrictions, including the imposition of a "safeguard quota," or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates or levels, we maintain a program of intensive monitoring of import restrictions and opportunities. We seek to minimize our potential exposure to import related risks through, among other measures, adjustments in product design and fabrication, shifts of production among countries and manufacturers, and through geographical diversification of our sources of supply. 

As almost all of our products are manufactured by foreign suppliers, the enactment of new legislation or the administration of current international trade regulations or executive action affecting textile agreements, or changes in sourcing patterns resulting from the elimination of quotas, could adversely affect our operations. See Item 1A — " Risk Factors — Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks " &#32; and &#32; " Risk Factors — Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight, or labor; or a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. " 

Apparel and other products sold by us are under the jurisdiction of multiple governmental agencies, including, in the U.S., the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Consumer Products Safety Commission. Our products are also subject to regulation in the U.S. and other countries, including the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, which imposes limitations on the permissible amounts of lead and phthalates allowed in children's products. These regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing requirements, and consumer product safety requirements and regulatory testing, 

particularly with respect to products used by children. Any failure to comply with such requirements could result in significant penalties and require us to recall products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these regulations, as well as applicable federal, state, local, and foreign rules and regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment. We do not estimate any significant capital expenditures for environmental control matters either in the next fiscal year or in the near future. Our licensed products, licensing partners, buying/sourcing agents, and the vendors and factories with which we contract for the manufacture and distribution of our products are also subject to regulation. Our agreements require our licensing partners, buying/sourcing agents, vendors, and factories to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and we are not aware of any violations which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. 

We are also subject to disclosure and reporting requirements, established under existing or new federal or state laws, such as the requirements to identify the origin and existence of certain "conflict minerals" under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and disclosures of specific actions to eradicate abusive labor practices in our supply chain under the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. While we require our suppliers to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and our operating guidelines which promote ethical and socially responsible business practices, any violation of labor, environmental, health, and safety or other laws, or any divergence by an independent supplier's labor practices from generally accepted industry standards, could damage our reputation, disrupt our sourcing capabilities, and increase the cost of doing business, adversely affecting our results of operations. 

Although we have not suffered any material restriction from doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce additional trademarks to new markets. 

Employees 

As of April 2, 2016 , we had approximately 26,000 employees, comprised of approximately 15,000 full-time and approximately 11,000 part-time employees. Approximately 14,000 of our employees are located in the U.S. and approximately 12,000 are located in foreign countries. Approximately 25 of our U.S. production employees in the womenswear business are members of Workers United (which was previously known as UNITE HERE) under an industry association collective bargaining agreement, which our womenswear subsidiary has adopted. We consider our relations with both our union and non-union employees to be good. 

Executive Officers 

The following are our current executive officers and their principal recent business experience: 

Ralph Lauren 

Age 76 

Mr. R. Lauren has been our Executive Chairman and Chief Creative Officer since November 2015, and a director of the Company since prior to our initial public offering in 1997. He had previously been our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since prior to our initial public offering in 1997 until November 2015. In addition, he was previously a member of our Advisory Board or the Board of Directors of our predecessors since their organization. He founded our business in 1967. For nearly five decades, Mr. R. Lauren has cultivated the iconography of America into a global lifestyle brand. 

Stefan Larsson 

Age 41 

Mr. Larsson has been our President and Chief Executive Officer, and a director of the Company since November 2015. He was Global President of Old Navy, Inc. a division of The Gap, Inc., from October 2012 through October 2015. Previously, Mr. Larsson held various leadership positions at H&amp;M Hennes &amp; Mauritz AB ("H&amp;M"), serving as Head of Global Sales from 2010 to 2012; Head of Global Expansion from 2009 to 2010; Head of Operations, Global Expansion from 2007 to 2009; and Regional Manager, U.S. West Coast from 2005 to 2007. Prior to that, he served in numerous global roles at H&amp;M with responsibility for products, including merchandising, planning, and production. 

Val&#233;rie Hermann 

Age 53 

Ms. Hermann has been our Global Brand President of Luxury, Women's Collections, and World of Accessories since May 2016. She served as our President of Luxury Collections from April 2014 through April 2016. She was President and Chief Executive Officer of Reed Krakoff Co. from April 2011 through March 2014. From 2005 to 2011, Ms. Hermann served as Chief Executive Officer of Saint Laurent Paris. Prior to that, she held various positions at LVMH Mo&#235;t Hennessy Louis Vuitton, including Director of Women's Ready to Wear at Dior. 

David Lauren 

Age 44 

Mr. D. Lauren is our Executive Vice President of Global Advertising, Marketing, and Communications. He has been a director of the Company since August 2013. Mr. D. Lauren oversees the Company's global print and digital advertising campaigns, corporate and fashion communications, strategic marketing partnerships, social media platforms, and key philanthropic and citizenship initiatives. Mr. D. Lauren has been instrumental in growing the Company's global e-commerce business and building the Company's global fashion image as it has expanded internationally. He serves on the board of trustees of the Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Care and Prevention and the board of directors of The National Museum of American History. Mr. D. Lauren is also the President of The Polo Ralph Lauren Foundation. Before joining the Company in 2000, he was Editor-In-Chief and President of Swing, a general interest publication for Generation X. Mr. D. Lauren is the son of Mr. R. Lauren. 

Robert L. Madore 

Age 51 

Mr. Madore has been our Corporate Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2015. He served as Senior Vice President of Finance of the Company from December 2010 through March 2015, and was Senior Vice President of Operations and Chief Financial Officer of the Company’s retail division from 2004 to December 2010. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Madore was Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Futurebrand, a division of Mccann Ericsson Worldwide. Prior to that, he held various executive management positions at Nine West Group, Inc. starting in 1995. 

