 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

&#160;

REMSleep Holdings, Inc., f/k/a/ Kat Gold Holdings Corp. (the &#147;Company&#148;) was incorporated in the State of Nevada on June 6, 2007. Following its acquisition of Handcamp on June 4, 2010, a gold property located in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada (&#147;Handcamp&#148;), the Company changed its business model to that of a mineral acquisition, exploration and development company focused primarily on gold properties. On August 26, 2010, the Company&#146;s name was changed from Bella Viaggio, Inc. to Kat Gold Holdings Corp. 

On June 4, 2010, we acquired 100% of the mineral rights that our parent company then held in and to Handcamp. Handcamp is located approximately 20 miles north of Badger, central Newfoundland and 6 miles northeast of an abandoned copper mine. Abandoned logging roads run through Handcamp, which we believe will allow for accessibility and mobility of heavy equipment.

One 50-yard wide mineralized zone lies within a strata-bound (rock layers) structurally complex zone which lies near a major east-directed thrust within the Roberts Arm Group (volcanic rocks) and is reflected in folding, shearing (fracturing) and mylonite (fine-grained, compact rock) development. Superimposed on the volcanogenic sulfide mineralization is epigenetic (formed after the rocks were laid down) disseminated gold mineralization. We believe that the optimal sulfide mineralization is associated with sericite schist (rocks formed under high temperature and pressure) with veinlets and dissemination (finely spread minerals) having been traced over a strike length of almost a mile.

Handcamp consists of 3 contiguous claim blocks totaling 149 claims, for an area of 3,730 hectares (37.3 square km). It is located less than 2,000 m east of the Trans Canada Highway (TCH), about 15 km south of South Brook, a small community situated near the south end of Halls Bay along the north coast of Newfoundland, Canada (See &#147;Figure 1&#148;). Driving time from St. John&#146;s, the capital of Newfoundland, to Handcamp is approximately 6 hours. A regional airport is located at Deer Lake 115 km west along the Trans- Canada Highway. Gravel roads provide access to Handcamp from the highway (See &#147;Figure 2&#148;). An electrical transmission line parallels the Trans Canada Highway and passes within 1,500m of Handcamp. 

1,700 soil samples were collected by representatives of our company along the grid, which were assayed for gold and base metals indicating what our management believes to be promising results. Rock samples were collected over the prospected areas with numerous samples showing significant mineral content with some gold numbers reaching a high of 158 grams per ton gold, 94 grams per ton and gold, 82 grams per ton gold, along with excellent zinc, copper and silver numbers (massive to semi-massive sulfides). A chip sample was cut over the main piece of the Handcamp property&#146;s gold deposit that shows an average of 7.1 grams per ton gold over 27 feet.

Subsequent Events 

On January 5, 2015 the name of the Company was changed to REMSleep Holdings, Inc. and the business model was changed to reflect the new direction of the Company; to develop and distribute products to help people affected by sleep apnea.

REMSleep Holdings, Inc. has patented a new, innovative sleep apnea product that will meet multiple market needs and be able to reach a large percentage of patients worldwide. REMSleep was founded by two principals with over 35 years of sleep-industry experience, including working at some of the pioneering companies. They have substantial direct knowledge of all current continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) equipment on the market and what it is lacking. This expertise led to the invention of the DeltaWave CPAP interface. 

The goal of RemSleep is to achieve optimum compliance and comfort for CPAP patients. Years of research and development have led to the revolutionary DeltaWave CPAP interface, a design that addresses the stubborn issues that continue to affect a patient&#146;s ability to comply with treatment. The DeltaWave interface does not disrupt normal breathing mechanics, is not claustrophobic, causes zero work of breathing (WOB), minimizes or eliminates drying of the sinuses, uses less driving pressure, and allows users to feel safe and secure while sleeping. 

RemSleep is confident that DeltaWave&#146;s unique design will provide patients with a more compliant CPAP interface that provides improved comfort, ease of use, and encourages deep restful sleep. The market for sleep treatment and equipment was $7.96 billion in 2011 and will reach a projected $19.72 billion by 2017, with North America accounting for a majority of the market. More than 8 million CPAP interfaces are sold annually in the U.S., with another 2.5 million globally. There are also an estimated 80 million people with undiagnosed sleep apnea.

The DeltaWave will be launched into the U.S. market first, while CE marking is obtained. REMSleep has already begun discussions with potential industry distributor partners in the U.S., and has received strong interest from a potential distribution partner in Germany that has sales channels/distribution partners throughout the EU. They have no current product like the REMSleep DeltaWave and are awaiting samples for evaluation. REMSleep has also been in contact with two internet retailers. One sells directly to patients online (the largest internet reseller of sleep products), and the other is working with trucking firms (selling direct to drivers). 

REMSleep&#146;s founders have extensive experience in the sleep industry, and have direct experience in starting companies and introducing unique products. COB Russell Bird, for example, found great success with start-ups Medical Gases Australia and Medical Industries America (both started out of garages before being multimillion-dollar ventures). Tom Wood helped found Innomed Technologies, and has product-development experience developing highly successful products in the industry. The two founders have worked in collaboration for more than 10 years and are now focused on bringing to market the best-in-class DeltaWave CPAP interface, with the goal of becoming a leading product manufacturer and distributor in this fast-growing global market. The owners have invested $100,000 in R&#38;D for the DeltaWave, and are seeking an investment of $1 million for the full launch. 

Employees 

&#160;

Russell Bird is the companies Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Bird is a full time employee of the Company. Aside from Mr. Bird, we currently have three employees, consisting of one Director of Sales and Marketing, one Chief Engineer, and one Director of Product Development.

