 Item 1. Business. 

General 

Rockwell Medical, Inc., incorporated in the state of Michigan in 1996, is a fully-integrated biopharmaceutical company targeting end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) with innovative products and services for the treatment of iron deficiency, secondary hyperparathyroidism and hemodialysis (HD) (also referred to as "dialysis"). 

Rockwell's lead branded drug, Triferic&reg; was approved by U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") in late January 2015. Triferic&reg; has the distinction of being the first drug in its class to be indicated for iron maintenance compared to other intravenous iron drugs that are indicated for iron repletion. Triferic&reg; is a unique iron compound that is delivered to hemodialysis patients via dialysate, replacing the ongoing iron loss that occurs during their dialysis treatment. Triferic&reg; enters the blood and immediately binds to transferrin and is transported to the erythroid precursor cells to be incorporated into hemoglobin. 

Throughout its clinical program, Triferic&reg; demonstrated a favorable safety profile similar to placebo patients. In addition, the Company completed a clinical study, the Prime study, which demonstrated that Triferic&reg; could significantly reduce the need for erythropoiesis stimulating agents ("ESA"). ESA drugs are the most expensive drugs used in dialysis. Triferic&reg;'s pharmacoeconomic benefits also include reduced nursing drug administration time, reduced supply costs for drug administration and disposal, reduced infections and reduced blood transfusions compared to utilization of IV iron compounds. We believe these benefits make Triferic&reg; a superior alternative to intravenous iron injections. 

We are commercializing Triferic&reg; in the US market which is currently the largest single country market for dialysis products. Following approval of Triferic&reg; by the FDA, the Company migrated to commercial production scale of Triferic&reg;'s active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) under its proprietary and patented formulation. Triferic&reg; was made available for marketing in late September 2015. The Company launched Triferic&reg; with a single presentation. Additional presentations for the US and other markets outside the United States are planned to be launched in 2016. 

Rockwell has in-licensed the exclusive right to commercialize Triferic&reg; and we hold certain other patents related to Triferic&reg;. We are in the process of seeking foreign regulatory approval for Triferic&reg; in markets outside the United States and to license the technology to partner companies who will gain regulatory approval and commercialize Triferic&reg;. In February 2016, we entered into an agreement with Wanbang Biopharmaceutical Co., Ltd. ("Wanbang"), to commercialize Triferic&reg; and Calcitriol to ESRD patients in China (the "Wanbang Agreement"). We are in discussions and negotiations regarding licensing arrangements in significant renal markets outside of the United States. 

Rockwell's FDA approved generic drug, Calcitriol, is for treating secondary hyperparathyroidism in dialysis patients. Calcitriol (active vitamin D) injection is indicated in the management of hypocalcemia in patients undergoing chronic renal dialysis. It has been shown to significantly reduce elevated parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels. Reduction of PTH has been shown to result in an improvement in renal osteodystrophy. We intend to market Calcitriol to hemodialysis providers in the United States dialysis market. 

Rockwell is also an established manufacturer and leader in delivering high-quality hemodialysis concentrates/dialysates to dialysis providers and distributors in the United States and abroad. These products are used in the hemodialysis process to maintain human life by removing toxins and replacing critical nutrients in the patient's bloodstream. Rockwell has three manufacturing and distribution facilities in the United States. Rockwell entered into an Exclusive Distribution Agreement (the 

"Distribution Agreement") with Baxter Healthcare Corporation ("Baxter") in October 2014 pursuant to which Baxter has become our exclusive distributor for our concentrate products in the United States and certain foreign markets. See "Item 1&#151;Business&#151;Distribution Agreement with Baxter." 

Our Business Strategy 

We intend to become a leading biopharmaceutical company, leveraging our Triferic&reg; technology into other medical indications, using our operating business infrastructure to penetrate and sell approved drugs commercially into the renal market and discovering and acquiring or licensing other potential high-value drugs. The following are the key elements of our business strategy: 

Commercially Market Triferic&reg; as an Iron Maintenance Therapy for Hemodialysis Patients in the U.S. 

We officially made Triferic&reg; available to market in the United States in late September 2015. Triferic&reg; is a unique iron compound that is delivered to hemodialysis patients via dialysate, replacing the ongoing iron loss that occurs during their dialysis treatment. In completed clinical trials, Triferic&reg;has demonstrated that it can effectively deliver sufficient iron to the bone marrow and maintain hemoglobin, without increasing iron stores (ferritin). Initial marketing efforts are focused on dialysis service providers in the U.S. dialysis market. 

Commercially Launch Calcitriol to Treat Secondary Hyperparathyroidism in Dialysis Patients in the U.S. 

Calcitriol (active vitamin D) injection is indicated in the management of hypocalcemia in patients undergoing chronic renal dialysis. It has been shown to significantly reduce elevated parathyroid hormone levels. Based on industry estimates, we believe the U.S. market for vitamin D therapy for ESRD patients is greater than $200 million per year. We expect to commence marketing Calcitriol to dialysis providers as soon as we have sufficient inventory produced by our contract manufacturer. We estimate that there are currently over 60,000,000 vitamin D injections per year in the ESRD market in the United States 

License our Triferic&reg; Technology to Marketing Partners to Leverage Our Renal Indications and Others Globally for Commercialization. 

We continue to seek commercial collaborations, such as our recently completed licensing agreement in China, to license and develop our products and to realize financial benefits on a global scale. We intend to leverage the development, regulatory and marketing presence and expertise of potential business partners to accelerate the development of our products throughout the world. We may initiate regulatory approval in select markets. 

Grow Our Commercial Concentrate Business and Market Position and Leverage our Current Relationships to Sell our Renal Drugs. 

We intend to continue to increase our market presence in our concentrate/dialysate products business in the United States. Through the Distribution Agreement with Baxter, we intend to expand our concentrate business operations and increase our sales domestically and internationally. We will continue to develop and offer innovative products that improve patient outcomes and lower provider costs. We intend to leverage our sales and marketing operating infrastructure to sell our renal drugs into the same market. 

Identify Novel Drugs to Address Unmet Needs and Market Opportunities. 

We will pursue opportunities to secure other drugs inside and outside the renal market that we believe hold great potential to address unmet needs, and that we believe will enable us to expand our reach further into drug development. 

Acquire Rights to and Commercially Implement Complementary Drug Products. 

We intend to continue to selectively pursue and acquire rights to drug products in various stages of development, or FDA approved drugs, with the intention to commercialize and/or realize their business potential. 

The Hemodialysis Market 

The great majority of hemodialysis patients receive dialysis treatment three times per week, or approximately 156 times per year. Most patients have their dialysis treatment performed at a free-standing clinic for permanent loss of kidney function; these are called "chronic" patients. Some have their treatment performed at hospitals for temporary loss of kidney function; these are called "acute" patients. A small percent of patients receive their treatment at home; these are called "home" patients. In each setting, a dialysis machine dilutes concentrated solution, such as Rockwell's concentrate products, with purified water. The resulting solution is called dialysate. Dialysate is pumped through an artificial kidney (or dialyzer) while the patient's blood is pumped through a semi-permeable membrane inside the dialyzer, in the opposite direction the dialysate is flowing. The dialysate infuses calcium and bicarbonate into the patient's blood while removing water and waste. Dialysate generally contains dextrose, sodium chloride, calcium, potassium, magnesium, sodium bicarbonate and either citric acid or acetic acid. The patient's physician chooses the proper concentrations required for each patient based on each particular patient's needs. 

In addition to using reusable concentrate products, a dialysis provider also uses other products such as blood tubing, fistula needles, dialyzers, drugs, specialized component kits, dressings, cleaning agents, filtration salts and other supplies, many of which we sell. 

Dialysis Industry Trends 

Hemodialysis is the primary treatment modality employed in the United States with over 90% of all dialysis patients receiving hemodialysis. The Company does not compete in the peritoneal or home dialysis segments. Hemodialysis treatments are generally performed in free standing clinics or hospitals with the majority of dialysis services performed by national and regional for profit dialysis chains. Based on data published by the U.S. Renal Data Systems ("USRDS") we estimate that there are approximately 6,500 Medicare-certified treatment clinics in the United States. The two largest national for-profit dialysis chains service approximately 70% of the domestic hemodialysis market. According to the most recent statistics published by USRDS, there were approximately 443,000 dialysis patients in the United States as of the end of 2013. 

Based on the most recent global market study published by a major dialysis products manufacturer, the global ESRD population was over 3.2 million patients at the end of 2013 with the overall global ESRD patient population growing approximately 6% annually. This same global market study also noted that the global HD population was approximately 2.3 million patients and growing at approximately 6-7% annually. We have observed that the ESRD patient population in the United States has grown steadily over the past several decades and coupled with data provided in that report we expect the dialysis population to grow approximately 4% annually over the next several years. The Asia-Pacific market is projected to experience rapid growth in both the incidence of kidney disease and the total ESRD population over the decade ahead. 

Drug Products 

Triferic&reg; (Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate) 

Iron deficiency is pervasive in the CKD-HD patient population. Triferic&reg;is the first product approved by the FDA for iron replacement and maintenance of hemoglobin in hemodialysis patients. 

We believe Triferic&reg;will become the standard of care in iron maintenance therapy for dialysis patients and address an important need in the maintenance of hemoglobin in ESRD patients. 

Triferic&reg;is a unique iron compound that is delivered to hemodialysis patients via dialysate, replacing the ongoing iron loss that occurs during their dialysis treatment. Triferic&reg; is introduced into bicarbonate concentrate, on-site at the dialysis clinic, and subsequently mixed into dialysate. Once in dialysate, Triferic&reg;crosses the dialyzer membrane and enters the blood where it immediately binds to transferrin and is transported to the erythroid precursor cells to be incorporated into hemoglobin. In completed clinical trials, Triferic&reg; has demonstrated that it can effectively deliver sufficient iron to the bone marrow and maintain hemoglobin, without increasing iron stores (ferritin). 

To currently address iron deficiency, patients receive intravenous ("IV") iron and ESA. ESA is an artificial hormone that acts in the bone marrow, together with iron, to increase the production of red blood cells, which carry oxygen throughout the body to nourish tissues and sustain life. Hemoglobin, an important constituent of red blood cells, is composed largely of iron and protein. 

Current clinical practice for iron therapy for CKD-HD patients is provided mainly with IV iron compounds, which are approved for iron repletion, not maintenance. IV iron is encased by a carbohydrate shell to prevent free-iron from circulating in the bloodstream. Due to the carbohydrate shell, IV iron is taken up by the reticuloendothelial system and deposited primarily in the liver, rather than directly into blood plasma where it would be carried to the bone marrow. An increase in inflammation during dosing, coupled with chronic inflammation found in ESRD patients, causes a peptide called hepcidin to mobilize and block the majority of IV iron from leaving the liver, increasing iron stores. This functional iron deficiency can reduce the effectiveness of ESA treatments. The carbohydrate moiety in IV iron compounds is also believed to be responsible for the anaphylactic reactions that may occur with IV iron compounds. 

Triferic&reg; is distinctly different from IV iron compounds. Triferic&reg; is an iron salt and contains no carbohydrate. Triferic&reg; enters the bloodstream through dialysate and immediately binds to transferrin (the body's natural binding site for iron) and is carried directly to the bone marrow for the formation of new red blood cells. Triferic&reg;'s efficient binding action is similar to how a healthy human body processes dietary iron when received via food. Triferic&reg; effectively delivers iron and maintains hemoglobin without increasing iron stores. Triferic&reg; has demonstrated an excellent safety profile in its Phase 3 clinical program and has not been attributed to any anaphylaxis in over 100,000 administrations. 

The PRIME study demonstrated that this more direct method of iron delivery is able to significantly reduce ESA treatment. In this study, Triferic&reg; patients used 35% less ESA than placebo patients and ESA hyporesponsive patients used 74% less ESA (see PRIME study design and results below). 

ESA is administered intravenously during dialysis treatments to help maintain hemoglobin levels. Iron supplementation is required to ensure good therapeutic response from ESA treatments. Most dialysis patients receive ESA therapy coupled with iron therapy in order to maintain hemoglobin levels and to achieve the full benefit of ESA treatments. ESAs are very expensive drugs and are known to have serious risks associated with their dosing to dialysis patients. 

Triferic&reg;, in place of IV iron, has shown it can effectively deliver iron and maintain hemoglobin without increasing iron stores, and the PRIME study has shown Triferic&reg; can lower ESA use. Triferic&reg; additionally lowers IV iron drug administration cost to dialysis providers. Along with the elimination of the needle and syringe normally used for IV iron administration, a nurse will not have to administer individual injections of IV iron, thereby reducing the amount of time required for IV iron administration, permitting nursing time to be redeployed to other patient care activities. 

During 2013, Rockwell successfully completed its two pivotal Phase 3 efficacy trials, called CRUISE-1 and CRUISE-2, for Triferic&reg;. The CRUISE studies were identical single-blind, placebo controlled, parallel group, multi-center studies comparing Triferic&reg; delivered via hemodialysate concentrate to placebo with standard hemodialysate concentrate with 600 subjects split evenly between the two studies and treatment arms. Both of the CRUISE studies successfully met their primary endpoint, demonstrating a statistically significant mean change in hemoglobin from baseline to End-of-Treatment. Triferic&reg; also met key secondary endpoints including maintenance of hemoglobin, maintenance of reticulocyte hemoglobin and increase in serum iron pre-to-post treatment without an increase in ferritin. 

A third Phase 3 trial, called the PRIME study demonstrated that Triferic&reg; significantly reduces the need for ESA during dialysis. The PRIME study was a nine-month, prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, multi-center study in the United States that randomized patients equally to dialysate containing Triferic&reg; -iron versus conventional dialysate. A total of 103 patients received blinded study drug (52 Triferic&reg; [ib]- 51 Placebo). Both groups were able to have ESA doses titrated to keep hemoglobin levels within the target range, and both groups could receive IV iron if they developed absolute iron deficiency. Both groups successfully kept their hemoglobin concentrations within the target range, but the Triferic&reg; patients used 35% less ESA to do so than placebo patients. ESA hyporesponsive patients&#151;those on more than 13,000 units of epoetin per week&#151;needed 74% less ESA in the Triferic&reg; group compared to the placebo group. Hypo-responsive patients are generally estimated to represent approximately 20% of the dialysis population. Amgen, Inc. which sells the vast majority of ESA drugs in the dialysis market, reported $2.7 billion in revenue form Amgen's ESA drugs in 2015. We estimate that sales of ESA drugs to the U.S. dialysis market are approximately $2.5 billion. 

In January 2014, we completed our long term safety study for Triferic&reg; which was a prospective, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover, multicenter, multinational, Phase 3 study with an enrollment of 718 CKD-HD patients in the United States and Canada. This large-scale long term safety study, coupled with the successful Phase 3 CRUISE studies, dosed over 100,000 Triferic&reg; administrations and demonstrated a safety profile similar to placebo patients. 

We increased our production of Triferic&reg;'s active pharmaceutical ingredient through contract manufacturers following FDA approval in January 2015. The Company believes it has adequate production capacity and redundancy in its supply chain to meet current and prospective demand. Triferic&reg; became available for commercial sale in late September 2015. The Company is preparing additional product presentations of Triferic&reg; for both the US and certain international markets to meet customer requirements. 

Our plan is to out-license Triferic&reg; in key international markets. In February 2016, we entered into the Wanbang Agreement for the rights for commercial development of Triferic&reg; in China including future Triferic&reg; indications. We are actively pursuing and negotiating licensing arrangements for Triferic&reg; in several other markets and regions. 

Triferic&reg; is a unique product that blends seamlessly with current clinical operations and offers substantial improvements to anemia management. Triferic&reg; provides improved clinical productivity and important clinical benefits for patients. Our initial marketing efforts have had a primary focus on education and awareness of these benefits. We are working to educate multiple parties and stakeholders, including patients, nurses, patient care technicians, nephrologists, purchasing management, clinical operations management and senior medical officers of dialysis chains, on the benefits of Triferic&reg;, including its unique mode of action, Triferic&reg; and ESA drug dosing protocol modifications, Triferic&reg; usage at the clinic level and the physiological benefits to patients in utilizing the only FDA approved drug for iron replacement and maintenance of hemoglobin. Our outreach efforts have included a broad range of marketing communications including trade shows, advertising, direct sales, multi-media access and direct presentations by iron therapy experts. 

Calcitriol (Active Vitamin D) Injection 

Calcitriol is a generic active vitamin D and is indicated for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in dialysis patients. The majority of ESRD patients receive vitamin D on a routine basis using one of two branded drugs. Clinical data shows Calcitriol to be clinically equivalent in safety and efficacy to the two branded drugs. We believe the lower cost of Calcitriol will entice dialysis providers to purchase it over current vitamin D options. We plan to commercialize Calcitriol once we have an adequate supply of inventory from our contract manufacturer. 

Dialysis Concentrate Products 

We manufacture, sell, deliver and distribute hemodialysis concentrates, along with a full line of ancillary products abroad. We use Baxter as our exclusive marketer and distributor in the U.S. and in select foreign markets. Dialysate concentrates accounted for over 92% of our 2015 revenue with ancillary products accounting for most of the remainder. All of our products are manufactured according to Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation and current good manufacturing practices ("cGMP") guidelines. Our concentrate products are diluted with clean water on-site at the clinic in the dialysis machine, creating dialysate, which works to clean the patient's blood. 

CitraPure&reg; Citric Acid Concentrate 

Our CitraPure&reg; Concentrate is 100% acetate-free, in contrast to the acetate-based products used for many years. Acetate promotes inflammation so its removal is beneficial to the patient. Citrate has anticoagulant properties and has been shown in clinical studies to reduce the need for heparin during dialysis treatment (CitraPure&reg; is not indicated for heparin sparing). CitraPure&reg; is packaged as a liquid and as a dry powder acid concentrate for use with our Dry Acid Concentrate Mixer. CitraPure&reg; contains citric acid, sodium chloride, dextrose, magnesium, potassium and calcium. CitraPure&reg; is packaged as dry acid concentrate in 25 gallon cases and liquid acid concentrate in 55 gallon drums and four one gallon jugs to a case. 

Dri-Sate&reg; Dry Acid Concentrate 

Our Dri-Sate&reg; Concentrate is our original acetate-based product that was introduced to the market when liquid acid was the only packaging option available in the market. Dri-Sate&reg; is packaged as a dry powder acid concentrate for use with our Dry Acid Concentrate Mixer. Dri-Sate&reg; contains acetic acid, sodium chloride, dextrose, magnesium, potassium and calcium. Dri-Sate&reg; is packaged as dry acid concentrate in 25 gallon cases. 

Renal Pure&reg; Liquid Acid Concentrate 

Our RenalPure&reg; Liquid Concentrate is acetate-based and contains acetic acid, sodium chloride, dextrose, magnesium, potassium and calcium and packaged in 55 gallon drums and four one gallon jugs to a case. 

Dry Acid Concentrate Mixer 

Our Dry Acid Concentrate Mixer is designed for our CitraPure&reg; and Dri-Sate&reg; Dry Acid product and allows a clinic to mix its acid concentrate on-site. The clinic technician, using a specially designed mixer, adds pre-measured packets of the necessary ingredients to purified water (AMII standard). Clinics using Dry Acid Concentrate realize numerous advantages, including lower cost per treatment, reduced storage space requirements, reduced number of deliveries and more flexibility in scheduling deliveries, while enabling the Company to reduce distribution and warehousing costs. 

RenalPure&reg; Powder Bicarbonate Concentrate 

RenalPure&reg; bicarbonate is a dry powder mixed on-site at the clinic and is packaged for bulk and individual treatment. 

SteriLyte&reg; Liquid Bicarbonate Concentrate 

SteriLyte&reg; bicarbonate is liquid packaged in four one gallon jugs to a case and is used mainly in acute care settings. 

Ancillary Products 

We offer a wide range of ancillary products including blood tubing, fistula needles, specialized custom kits, dressings, cleaning agents, filtration salts and other supplies used by hemodialysis providers. 

Distribution Agreement with Baxter 

Pursuant to the terms of the Distribution Agreement, Baxter is now our exclusive agent for commercializing our hemodialysis concentrate and ancillary products in the United States and various foreign countries for an initial term of 10 years. We retain sales, marketing and distribution rights for our hemodialysis concentrate products for our current international customers and in those countries in which we have an established commercial presence. During the term of the Distribution Agreement, Baxter has agreed not to manufacture or sell any competitive concentrate products in the United States hemodialysis market, other than specified products. The Distribution Agreement does not include any of the Company's drug products. 

Under the Distribution Agreement, Baxter will purchase concentrate-related products from us at pre-determined gross margin-based prices per unit adjusted each year during the term and subject to an annual true up. The Distribution Agreement also requires Baxter to meet minimum annual purchase levels, subject to a cure period and certain other relief, in order to maintain its exclusive distribution rights. The minimum purchase levels increase each year over the term of the Distribution Agreement. Purchases in any contract year that exceed the minimum may be carried forward and applied to future years' minimum requirements. The Distribution Agreement also contains provisions governing the operating relationship between the parties, our obligations to maintain specified manufacturing capacity and quality levels, remedies, as well as representations, warranties and indemnification obligations of the parties. We will continue to manage customer service, transportation and certain other functions for our current customers through at least December 31, 2017, for which Baxter will pay us an amount equal to our related costs plus a slight mark-up. 

Following the October 2, 2014 signing of the Distribution Agreement, we received an upfront fee of $20 million and an equity investment of $15 million. Baxter also agreed to pay us $10 million during the initial term of the Distribution Agreement to build a new manufacturing facility in the Pacific time zone that will serve customers in the Western United States. The fee payable in connection with building the facility will be reduced to the extent that the facility is not operational within 12 months after the start of construction. Except for any leased components, we will own and operate the facility when completed. 

Either party may terminate the Distribution Agreement upon the insolvency or material breach of the other party or in the event of a force majeure. In addition, Baxter may also terminate the Distribution Agreement at any time upon 270 days' prior written notice to us or if (1) prices increase beyond certain thresholds and notice is provided within 45 days after the true up payment is due for the year in which the price threshold is exceeded, (2) a change of control of the Company occurs and 270 days' notice is provided, or (3) upon written notice that Baxter has been enjoined by a court of 

competent jurisdiction from selling in the United States any product covered by the Distribution Agreement due to a claim of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation relating to such product. If Baxter terminates the Distribution Agreement under the discretionary termination or the price increase provisions, it would be subject to a limited noncompete obligation in the United States with respect to certain products for a period of two years. 

If a "Refund Trigger Event" occurs, we would be obligated to repay a portion of the upfront fee and facility fee. A "Refund Trigger Event" means any of the following: (1) a change of control of the Company involving any of certain specified companies; (2) a termination by Baxter due to the Company's bankruptcy or breach, or due to price increases that exceed the stated thresholds; (3) a termination by either party due to a force majeure; (4) settlement or adjudication of any claim, action or litigation relating to a covered product that materially and adversely affects Baxter's commercialization of the product; and (5) any regulatory action or ruling relating to a covered product that materially and adversely affects Baxter's commercialization of the product. In addition, if Baxter terminates the Distribution Agreement because Baxter has been enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction from selling in the United States any product covered by the Distribution Agreement due to a claim of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation relating to such product prior to the end of 2019, Baxter would be entitled to a partial refund. In no event would more than one refund be required to be paid. 

The Distribution Agreement may be extended an additional five years by Baxter if Baxter achieves a specified sales target and pays an extension fee of $7.5 million. If the first extension occurs, the Distribution Agreement term may later be extended an additional five years at Baxter's option at no additional cost. 

Distribution and Delivery Operations 

Rockwell's U.S. drug products are sold to and delivered by two of the major U.S. drug wholesalers. 

The majority of our domestic dialysis concentrate products are delivered through our subsidiary, Rockwell Transportation, Inc., which operates a fleet of trucks used to deliver products to our customers. Rockwell distribution and delivery will continue to operate under the Distribution Agreement on behalf of Baxter for domestic business. We perform delivery services that are generally not available from common carriers or our competitors, such as stock rotation, non-loading-dock delivery and drum pump-off service. As a result, we believe we offer a higher level of service than other providers. 

Sales and Marketing 

The eight largest dialysis providers treat approximately 370,000 hemodialysis patients in their centers according to an article published by Nephrology News in 2015, which we believe constitutes over 85% of the hemodialysis patient population in the United States. Due to the concentrated nature of our customers, we will market our drug products using few salespeople. Our Chief Executive Officer leads and directs our sales effort, and handles much of the sales effort with our major accounts. 

We market and advertise through trade publications, journals, product literature, the internet and industry trade conferences. We target our drug sales and marketing efforts to senior and operating management of dialysis companies, dialysis service providers, nephrologists, clinic administrators, nurses, medical directors and purchasing personnel. 

Our dialysis concentrate products are sold to U.S. customers through Baxter in accordance with the Distribution Agreement. Our dialysis concentrate products are sold to international customers through independent sales agents, distributors and direct. 

Competition 

Dialysis Concentrate Solutions and Dialysis Products Market Competition 

In the United States, the principal competitor for our concentrate products is Fresenius Medical Care NA, a vertically integrated manufacturer and marketer of dialysis devices, drugs and supplies and dialysis clinic operator, which has substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, research and development and management resources than the Company. Fresenius operates approximately 2,300 clinics and treats approximately 37% of the dialysis patients in the U.S. Fresenius also manufactures and sells a full range of renal products, including dialysis machines, dialyzers (artificial kidneys), concentrates and other supplies used in hemodialysis. In addition to its captive customer base, Fresenius also services clinics owned by others with its products where it commands a market leading position in its key product lines. Fresenius manufactures its concentrate in its own regional manufacturing facilities. Other than Rockwell, there are no other major dialysis concentrate suppliers in the United States. 

Iron Delivery Market Competition 

We believe Triferic&reg; has potential to capture market share from the current IV iron drugs due to its unique mode of action, clinical benefits, ability to lower treatment cost for providers, ease of administration and excellent safety profile. Presently, the IV iron drug Venofer&reg; has the majority of the market for delivering iron to CKD-HD patients in the United States. Venofer&reg; is owned by Switzerland-based Galenica. Galenica also markets Ferinject&reg; which is primarily used to treat anemia in a non-dialysis setting. Fresenius has a sublicense agreement that allows them to distribute Venofer&reg; to the dialysis market in the United States and Canada. Other IV iron competitors include Sanofi with Ferrlecit&reg;, Watson with a generic IV iron called Nulecit&reg; and AMAG Pharmaceuticals, Inc. with Feraheme&reg;. 

The markets for drug products are highly competitive. Competition in drug delivery systems is generally based on marketing strength, product performance characteristics (i.e., reliability, safety, patient convenience) and product price. Acceptance by dialysis providers and nephrologists is also critical to the success of a product. The first product on the market in a particular therapeutic area typically is able to obtain and maintain a significant market share. In a highly competitive marketplace and with evolving technology, additional product introductions or developments by others could render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, pharmaceutical and medical device companies are largely dependent upon health care providers being reimbursed by private insurers and government payors. Drugs approved by the FDA might not receive reimbursement from private insurers or government payors. Even if the government reimburses for drugs, the amount of reimbursement may not provide incentive to convert to a new or different drug. 

Prior to 2011, the Centers for Medicare &amp; Medicaid Services ("CMS") had paid ESRD providers for dialysis treatments under the Medicare program in two parts: the composite rate and separately reimbursed drugs and services. On January 1, 2011, CMS began implementation of a four-year transition to an ESRD prospective payment system ("PPS") reimbursement. Currently, CMS reimburses ESRD providers through a fully bundled reimbursement rate, which we believe will benefit our marketing efforts for Triferic&reg;. The bundled rate is a single payment per HD treatment, thereby eliminating reimbursement for individual drugs and services to providers. The bundled payment is subject to a case-mix adjustment based on a number of factors. CMS issued final regulations on October 30, 2015 to update payment policies and rates for CY 2016 and make changes to the ESRD 

Quality Incentive Program ("QIP") for providers. CMS reduced the ESRD PPS base rate paid to ESRD providers for CY 2016. Prior to the implementation of the PPS system, dialysis drugs were a source of revenue to providers while following implementation of PPS dialysis drugs are considered an operating cost by dialysis providers. We believe Triferic&reg;, due to its potential for improved therapeutic response and lower cost of administration, may be an attractive alternative to IV iron under this reimbursement landscape. 

Vitamin D Therapy Market Competition 

We intend to market Calcitriol injection against two competitors with branded vitamin D products, as well as other generic drug competitors. Abbott Laboratories markets Zemplar&reg; and Sanofi-Aventis, through its Genzyme subsidiary, markets Hectorol&reg;. Other companies offer oral forms of vitamin D. We believe the dialysis reimbursement law that went into effect in January 2011, along with Calcitriol being the lowest dose vitamin D injection available and our relationships with many dialysis providers may give us an advantage to sell Calcitriol against competitors in the market. 

Quality Assurance and Control 

Dialysis Concentrate Solutions Business 

We operate under FDA and cGMP guidelines and place significant emphasis on providing quality products and services to our customers. Our quality management plays an essential role in meeting product quality requirements and FDA guidelines. We have implemented quality systems that involve control procedures that result in rigid conformance to specifications. Our quality systems also include assessments of suppliers of raw materials, packaging components and finished goods, and quality management reviews designed to inform management of key issues that may affect the quality of products, assess the effectiveness of our quality systems and identify areas for improvement. 

Technically trained professionals at our production facilities maintain our quality system. To assure quality and consistency of our concentrates, we conduct specific analytical tests during the manufacturing process for each type of product that we manufacture. Prior to shipment, our quality control laboratory at each facility conducts analytical tests to verify that the chemical properties of the concentrates comply with the specifications required by industry standards. Each product is assigned a lot number for tracking purposes. 

Drug Manufacturing 

We will utilize contract manufacturing organizations ("CMOs") to manufacture and package our drug products for sale. These contract manufacturers are FDA registered drug manufacturing establishments. We follow defined procedures to qualify manufacturers of our products and to review and approve all manufactured products to ensure compliance with FDA cGMP regulations. 

Government Regulation 

The testing, manufacture and sale of our hemodialysis concentrates and the ancillary products we distribute are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended (the "FD&amp;C Act"), and FDA regulations, the FDA regulates the pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of medical devices. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure of the government to grant pre-market clearance or pre-market approval for devices, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals and criminal prosecution. 

We plan to develop and commercialize selected drug candidates, such as Triferic&reg; and other Triferic&reg; indications. The development and regulatory approval process for drugs includes preclinical testing and human clinical trials and is lengthy and uncertain. Before marketing in the United States, any pharmaceutical or therapeutic product must undergo rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA under the FD&amp;C Act. 

Moreover, the FDA imposes substantial requirements on new product research and the clinical development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products, including testing and clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of these products. 

Medical Device Approval and Regulation 

A medical device may be marketed in the United States only with prior authorization from the FDA unless it is subject to a specific exemption. Devices classified as Class I devices (general controls) or Class II devices (general and special controls) are eligible to seek "510(k) clearance" from the FDA. Such clearance generally is granted when submitted information establishes that a proposed device is "substantially equivalent" in terms of safety and effectiveness to a legally marketed device that is not subject to premarket approval. A legally marketed device is a "pre-amendment" device that was legally marketed prior to May 28, 1976 (for which a PMA is not required), a device that has been reclassified from Class III to Class I or II, or a device which has been found substantially equivalent through the 510(k) process. The FDA in recent years has been requiring a more rigorous demonstration of substantial equivalence than in the past, including requiring clinical trial data in some cases. For any devices that are cleared through the 510(k) process, modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or constitute a new or major change in the intended use of the device, will require new 510(k) submissions. We have been advised that it usually takes from three to six months from the date of submission to obtain 510(k) clearance, and may take substantially longer. Our hemodialysis concentrates, liquid bicarbonate and other ancillary products are categorized as Class II devices. 

A device which sustains or supports life, prevents impairment of human health or presents a potential unreasonable risk of illness or injury is categorized as a Class III device. A Class III device generally must receive approval through a pre-market approval ("PMA") application, which requires proving the safety and effectiveness of the device to the FDA. The process of obtaining PMA approval is expensive and uncertain. We have been advised that it usually takes approximately one year to obtain approval after filing the request, and may take substantially longer. 

If human clinical trials of a device are required, whether for a 510(k) submission or a PMA application, and the device presents a "significant risk," the sponsor of the trial (usually the manufacturer or the distributor of the device) will have to file an investigational device exemption ("IDE") application prior to commencing human clinical trials. The IDE application must be supported by data, typically including the results of animal and laboratory testing. If the IDE application is approved by the FDA and one or more appropriate Institutional Review Boards ("IRBs"), the device may be shipped for the purpose of conducting the investigations without compliance with all of the requirements of the FD&amp;C Act and human clinical trials may begin. The FDA will specify the number of investigational sites and the number of patients that may be included in the investigation. If the device does not present a "significant risk" to the patient, a sponsor may begin the clinical trial after obtaining approval for the study by one or more appropriate IRBs without the need for FDA approval. 

Any devices manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA clearances or approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA and certain state agencies. As a manufacturer of medical devices for marketing in the United States we are required to adhere to regulations setting forth detailed cGMP requirements, which include testing, control and documentation requirements. We must also comply with medical device reporting regulations which require that we 

report to the FDA any incident in which our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which our products malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, it would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Under such a scenario, our products may be subject to voluntary recall by us or required recall by the FDA. Labeling and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain circumstances, by the Federal Trade Commission. The FD&amp;C Act prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. 

We are subject to routine inspection by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements and other applicable quality system regulations. We are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, transportation and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. 

We have 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market hemodialysis concentrates in both liquid and powder form. In addition, we have received 510(k) clearance for our Dry Acid Concentrate Mixer. 

We must comply with the FD&amp;C Act and related laws and regulations, including cGMP, to retain 510(k) clearances. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our 510(k) clearances from the FDA to manufacture and distribute our products. If we fail to maintain our 510(k) clearances, we may be required to cease manufacturing and/or distributing our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our FDA clearances are denied or rescinded, sales of our products in the United States would be prohibited during the period we do not have such clearances. 

In addition to the regulations for medical devices covering our current dialysate products, our new product development efforts will be subject to the regulations pertaining to pharmaceutical products. Our Triferic&reg; and Calcitriol products will be subject to FDA drug regulations. 

Drug Approval and Regulation 

The marketing of pharmaceutical products in the United States, such as Triferic&reg;, requires the approval of the FDA. We received FDA approval to market Triferic&reg; in January 2015. The FDA has established regulations, guidelines and safety standards which apply to the pre-clinical evaluation, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of our new iron maintenance therapy product and other pharmaceutical products. The steps required before a pharmaceutical product can be produced and marketed for human use include: (i) pre-clinical studies; (ii) submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application ("IND"), which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence in the United States; (iii) adequate and well controlled human clinical trials; (iv) submission to the FDA of a New Drug Application ("NDA") or, in some cases, an Abbreviated New Drug Application ("ANDA"); and (v) review and approval of the NDA or ANDA by the FDA. An NDA generally is required for products with new active ingredients, new indications, new routes of administration, new dosage forms or new strengths. An NDA requires that complete clinical studies of a product's safety and efficacy be submitted to the FDA, the cost of which is substantial. The costs are often less, however, for new delivery systems which utilize already approved drugs than for drugs with new active ingredients. 

An ANDA is a marketing application filed as part of an abbreviated approval process that is available for generic drug products that have been scientifically determined to be "bioequivalent" to an FDA-approved drug. This requires that the generic drug product have the same amount of active ingredient(s) absorbed in the same amount of time, use indication, route of administration, dosage form and strength as an existing FDA-approved product. In addition the generic drug product must be manufactured in accordance with cGMP and meet requirements for batch identity, strength, purity and quality. Under applicable regulations, companies that seek to introduce an ANDA product must also certify that the product does not infringe on the approved product's patent or that such patent has 

expired. If the applicant certifies that its product does not infringe on the approved product's patent, the patent holder may institute legal action to determine the relative rights of the parties and the application of the patent, and the FDA may not finally approve the ANDA until a court finally determines that the applicable patent is invalid or would not be infringed by the applicant's product. 

Pre-clinical studies are conducted to obtain preliminary information on a pharmaceutical product's efficacy and safety in animal or in vitro models. The results of these studies are submitted to the FDA as part of the IND and are reviewed by the FDA before human clinical trials begin. Human clinical trials may begin 30 days after receipt of the IND by the FDA unless the FDA objects to the commencement of clinical trials. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. Phase 1 trials consist of testing the product primarily for safety, metabolism and pharmacologic action in a small number of patients or healthy volunteers at one or more doses. In Phase 2 trials, the safety and efficacy of the product are evaluated in a patient population somewhat larger than the Phase 1 trials with the primary intent of determining the effective dose range. Phase 3 trials typically involve additional testing for safety and clinical efficacy in an expanded population at a large number of test sites. A clinical plan, or protocol, accompanied by documentation from the institutions participating in the trials, must be received by the FDA prior to commencement of each of the clinical trials. The FDA may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time. 

The results of product development and pre-clinical and clinical studies are submitted to the FDA as an NDA or an ANDA for approval. If an application is submitted, there can be no assurance that the FDA will review and approve the NDA or an ANDA in a timely manner. The FDA may deny an NDA or an ANDA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or it may require additional testing, including pre-clinical, clinical and or product manufacturing tests. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately deny approval of the product. Further, if there are any modifications to the drug, including changes in indication, manufacturing process, labeling, or a change in a manufacturing facility, an NDA or an ANDA supplement may be required to be submitted to the FDA. Product approvals may be withdrawn after the product reaches the market if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur regarding the safety or efficacy of the product. The FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of products which have been commercialized, and has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of these products based on the results of these post-marketing programs. 

Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections for compliance with regulations and each domestic drug manufacturing facility must be registered with the FDA. Foreign regulatory authorities may also have similar regulations. We expend significant time, money and effort in the area of quality assurance to fully comply with all applicable requirements. FDA approval to manufacture a drug is site specific. In the event an approved manufacturing facility for a particular drug becomes inoperable, obtaining the required FDA approval to manufacture such drug at a different manufacturing site could result in production delays, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Manufacturers and distributors must comply with various post-market requirements, including adverse event reporting, re-evaluation of approval decisions and notices of changes in the product. 

Other Government Regulations 

The federal and state governments in the United States, as well as many foreign governments, from time to time explore ways to reduce medical care costs through health care reform. Due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation, we cannot predict what impact any reform proposal ultimately adopted may have on the pharmaceutical and medical device industry or on our business or operating results. The Patient 

Protection and Affordable Care Act ("PPACA"), which was enacted in 2010, imposes excise taxes on manufacturers on the sale of medical devices and pharmaceutical products and requires medical device and pharmaceutical manufacturers annually to report certain financial and ownership relationships they have with physicians and teaching hospitals. Our activities are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, and environmental protection and may be subject to other present and possible future local, state, federal and foreign regulations. 

The approval procedures for the marketing of our products in foreign countries vary from country to country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. We generally depend on our foreign distributors or marketing partners to obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals to market our products in those countries which typically do not require additional testing for products that have received FDA approval. 

However, since medical practice and governmental regulations differ across regions, further testing may be needed to support market introduction in some foreign countries. Some foreign regulatory agencies may require additional studies involving patients located in their countries. Even after foreign approvals are obtained, further delays may be encountered before products may be marketed. Issues related to import and export can delay product introduction. Many countries require additional governmental approval for price reimbursement under national health insurance systems. 

Product License Agreements 

We are party to an in-license agreement for Triferic&reg; that covers issued patents in the United States, the European Union and Japan, as well as other foreign jurisdictions. We licensed the product from a company owned by Dr. Ajay Gupta who subsequently joined us as our Chief Scientific Officer. The license agreement continues for the duration of the underlying patents in each country plus a period of ten years. Patents were issued in the United States in 2004 and extend through 2016 and may be extended thereafter under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Our request for an extension is currently under review and is anticipated to be approved. The European patent was issued in 2005 and extends through 2017. The Japanese patent was issued in 2007 and extends through 2017. We may apply for an extension of our patent exclusivity for up to five years in Europe and Japan. As noted below in "Trademarks and Patents," the Company has also received patent protection on the pharmaceutical grade formulation of the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Triferic&reg; which extends patent protection until 2029. 

Our Triferic&reg; license agreement requires us to obtain and pay the cost of obtaining FDA approval of the product and patent maintenance expenses in order to realize any benefit from commercialization of the product. In addition, we were obligated to make certain milestone payments during development of the product. As of December 31, 2015, there were no remaining milestones to be completed although we continue to be obligated to pay ongoing royalties. 

Trademarks and Patents 

We have several trademarks and servicemarks used on our products and in our advertising and promotion of our products, and we have applied for United States registration of such marks. Most such applications have resulted in registration of such trademarks and servicemarks. 

We were issued a United States patent on the synthesis and formulation of our pharmaceutical grade formulation of Triferic&reg;. The U.S patent expires on April 17, 2029. Patents have also been granted in Europe, Japan and Canada. We have numerous other patents and patent applications connected to Triferic&reg; pending in various countries. 

We also own patents in the United States and Canada for our Dry Acid Concentrate method and apparatus for preparing liquid dialysate which expire on September 17, 2019. Expiration of these patents is not expected to have a material impact on our business. 

Suppliers 

We believe the raw materials and packaging materials for our hemodialysis concentrates, the components for our hemodialysis kits and the ancillary hemodialysis products distributed by us are generally available from several potential suppliers. We intend to engage CMOs for the manufacture and packaging of our drug products. There are several potential CMOs that are able to manufacture and package our drug products and so it is unlikely we will be dependent on any particular CMO. However, the lead time to bring on an additional or new CMO could be lengthy. 

Customers 

We operate in one market segment, the hemodialysis market, which involves the manufacture, sale and distribution of hemodialysis products to hemodialysis clinics including pharmaceutical, dialysis concentrates, dialysis kits and other ancillary products used in the dialysis process. In October 2014, we entered into a Distribution Agreement with Baxter and under this agreement Baxter received exclusive distribution rights for our concentrate products in the United States. During 2015, Rockwell domestic customer contracts for the supply of dialysis concentrate products that permitted assignment to Baxter without consent have been assigned to Baxter. As a result, for the year ended December 31, 2015, our direct sales to Baxter aggregated approximately 36% of sales and we had a receivable from Baxter of $2,088,000 as of December 31, 2015. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, one customer, DaVita Healthcare Partners, Inc., accounted for 48% of our sales in 2015 and 49% of our sales in 2014 and 2013. Our accounts receivable from this customer were $2,156,000 and $2,041,000 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. DaVita and Baxter and the accounts administered by Baxter are important to our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of any significant accounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of our sales in any of the last three years. 

The majority of our international sales in each of the last three years were sales to domestic distributors that were resold to end users outside the United States. Our sales to foreign customers and distributors were less than 5% of our total sales in 2015, 2014 and 2013. Our total international sales, including sales to domestic distributors for resale outside the United States, aggregated 13%, 13% and 12%, of overall sales in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 300 employees, substantially all of whom are full time employees. Our arrangements with our employees are not governed by any collective bargaining agreement. Our employees are employed on an "at-will" basis. 

Research &amp; Development 

Over the last several years we have invested heavily in the testing and development of Triferic&reg;. We completed human clinical trials and other testing in 2013, and submitted our NDA for Triferic&reg; to the FDA in 2014. We received FDA approval for Triferic&reg; in January 2015. 

We engaged outside service providers, contract research organizations, consultants and legal counsel to assist us with clinical trials, product development and obtaining regulatory approval. We incurred product development and research costs related to the commercial development, patent approval and regulatory approval of new products, including Triferic&reg;, aggregating approximately $4,961,000, $7,784,000 and $39,382,000, in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Future research and product development spending on the Triferic&reg; platform may include clinical testing in connection with peritoneal dialysis, total parenteral nutrition, an orphan indication and a pediatric indication. Future spending on such indications is expected to be minor in relation to the Company's cash resources. 

Where You Can Get Information We File with the SEC 

Our internet address is http://www.rockwellmed.com. Our internet address is included as an inactive textual reference only and nothing on the website is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You can access free of charge on our web site all of our reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports. These reports are available as soon as practicable after they are electronically filed with the SEC. 

The SEC also maintains a website on the internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the SEC's Web site is http://www.sec.gov. 

