 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

&#160;

Our Business

Effective April 24, 2015, Roper Industries, Inc. changed its name to Roper Technologies, Inc. in order to reflect our continued evolution to a diversified technology company.

&#160;

Roper Technologies, Inc. ("Roper," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us") is a diversified technology company. We operate businesses that design and develop software (both license and software-as-a-service) and engineered products and solutions for a variety of niche end markets; including healthcare, transportation, food, energy, water, education and academic research.

We pursue consistent and sustainable growth in earnings by emphasizing continuous improvement in the operating performance of our existing businesses and by acquiring other businesses that offer high value-added services, engineered products and solutions that we believe are capable of achieving growth and maintaining high margins. We compete in many niche markets and believe we are the market leader or a competitive alternative to the market leader in most of these markets.

&#160;

We were incorporated on December 17, 1981 under the laws of the State of Delaware.

Market Share, Market Expansion, and Product Development

Leadership with Engineered Content for Niche Markets - We maintain a leading position in many of our markets. We believe our market positions are attributable to the technical sophistication of our products and software, the applications expertise used to create our advanced products and systems, and our distribution and service capabilities. Our operating units grow their businesses through new product development and development of new applications and services to satisfy customer needs. In addition, our operating units grow our customer base by expanding our access to customers and entering adjacent markets.

Diversified End Markets and Geographic Reach - We have a global presence, with sales to customers outside the U.S. totaling $1.2 billion in 2015. Information regarding our international operations is set forth in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.

Research and Development - We conduct applied research and development to improve the quality and performance of our products and to develop new technologies and products. Our research and development spending was $164.2 million in 2015 as compared to $147.9 million and $145.7 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Our Business Segments

Our operations are reported in four segments based upon common customers, markets, sales channels, technologies and common cost opportunities. The segments are: Medical &#38; Scientific Imaging, RF Technology, Industrial Technology and Energy Systems &#38; Controls. Financial information about our business segments is presented in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.

Medical and Scientific Imaging

Our Medical &#38; Scientific Imaging segment offers products and software in medical applications, and high performance digital imaging products. These products and solutions are provided through eleven reporting units. For 2015, this segment had net sales of $1.215 billion, representing 33.9% of our total net sales.

Medical Products and Software - We provide diagnostic and laboratory software solutions to healthcare providers and services and technologies to support the diverse and complex needs of alternate site health care providers who deliver services outside of an acute care hospital setting. We also manufacture and sell patient positioning devices and related software for use in radiation oncology, 3-D measurement technology in computer-assisted surgery and supply diagnostic and therapeutic disposable products used in ultrasound imaging for minimally invasive medical procedures. We design and manufacture a non-invasive instrument for portable ultrasound bladder volume measurement and a video laryngoscope designed to enable rapid intubation even in the most difficult settings. In addition, we provide a cloud-based financial analytics and performance software platform to healthcare providers.

Digital Imaging Products and Software - We manufacture and sell extremely sensitive, high-performance electron filters, charged couple device ("CCD") and complementary metal oxide semiconductor ("CMOS") cameras, detectors and related software for a variety of scientific and industrial uses, which require high resolution and/or high speed digital video, including electron microscopy and spectroscopy applications. We sell these products for use within academic, government research, semiconductor, security and other end-user markets such as biological and material science. They are frequently incorporated into products by original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs").

Our Medical &#38; Scientific Imaging segment companies have lead times of up to several months on some of their product sales, although standard products are often shipped within two weeks of receipt of order. Blanket purchase orders are placed by certain OEM and end-users, with continuing requirements for fulfillment over specified periods of time.

&#160;

RF Technology

Our RF Technology segment provides radio frequency identification ("RFID") communication technology and software solutions that are used primarily in toll and traffic systems, security and access control, campus card systems, card readers, software-as-a-service in the freight matching and food industries, comprehensive management software for legal and construction firms and metering and remote monitoring applications. These products and solutions are provided through nine reporting units. This segment had sales of $1.034 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, representing 28.9% of our total net sales.

Toll and Traffic Systems - We manufacture and sell toll tags and monitoring systems as well as provide transaction and violation processing services for toll and traffic systems to both governmental and private sector entities. In addition, we provide intelligent traffic systems that assist customers in improving traffic flow and infrastructure utilization.

Card Systems/Integrated Security Solutions - We provide card systems and integrated security solutions primarily to education and health care markets. We also provide an integrated nutrition management solution used by food service customers.

RFID Card Readers - We design, develop and manufacture RFID card readers that support most smart cards worldwide. The readers are used in numerous applications and OEM solutions including: attendance management, multi-function printers, mobile, physical access, manufacturing, dispensing, kiosks, point-of-sale and computer logon. 

Software-as-a-Service - We maintain electronic marketplaces that connect 1) available capacity of trucking units with the available loads of freight to be moved from location to location throughout North America and 2) food suppliers, distributors and vendors, primarily in the perishable food sector.

Comprehensive Management Software - We provide comprehensive management software solutions for law and other professional services firms, including business development, calendar/docket matter management, time and billing and case management. We also provide construction firms with construction project management solutions which encompass the end-to-end construction process.

Metering and Remote Monitoring - We manufacture and sell meter reading, data logging and pressure control products for use in water, gas and electricity applications. We also provide network monitoring, leakage reduction and pressure control services in water and gas distribution networks.

The RF Technology segment companies' sales reflect a combination of standard products, large engineered projects, and multi-year operations and maintenance contracts. Standard products generally ship within two weeks of receipt of order, and large engineered projects may have lead times of several months. As such, backlog may fluctuate depending upon the timing of large project awards.

Industrial Technology

Our Industrial Technology segment produces fluid handling pumps, materials analysis equipment and consumables, leak testing equipment, flow measurement and metering equipment and water meter and automatic meter reading ("AMR") products and systems. These products and solutions are provided through six reporting units. For 2015, this segment had net sales of $745.4 million, representing 20.8% of our total net sales.

Fluid Handling Pumps - We manufacture and sell a wide variety of pumps. These pumps vary significantly in complexity and in pumping method employed, which allows for the movement and application of a diverse range of low and high viscosity liquids, high solids content slurries and chemicals. Our pumps are used in end markets such as oil and gas, agricultural, water and wastewater, chemical and general industrial.

Materials Analysis Equipment and Consumables - We manufacture and sell equipment and supply consumables necessary to prepare material samples for testing and analysis. These products are used mostly within the material science, steel, automotive, electronics, mining and research end-user markets.

Water Meter and AMR Products and Systems - We manufacture and distribute water meter products serving the residential, commercial and industrial water management markets, and several lines of automatic meter reading products and systems serving these markets.

The Industrial Technology segment companies' sales reflect a combination of standard products and specially engineered, application-specific products. Standard products are typically shipped within two weeks of receipt of order. Application-specific products typically ship within 6 to 12 weeks following receipt of order. However, larger project orders and blanket purchase orders for certain OEMs may extend shipment for longer periods.

Energy Systems &#38; Controls

Our Energy Systems &#38; Controls segment principally produces control systems, fluid properties testing equipment, industrial valves and controls, vibration sensors and controls and non-destructive inspection and measurement products and solutions, which are provided through six reporting units. For 2015, this segment had net sales of $587.7 million, representing 16.4% of our total net sales.

Control Systems - We manufacture control systems and provide related engineering and commissioning services for turbomachinery applications, primarily in energy markets.

Fluid Properties Testing Equipment - We manufacture and sell test equipment to determine physical and elemental properties, such as sulfur and nitrogen content, flash point, viscosity, freeze point and distillation range of liquids and gases primarily for the petroleum industry.

Sensors, Controls and Valves - We manufacture sensors and control equipment including pressure sensors, temperature sensors, measurement instruments and control software for global rubber, plastics and process industries. We also manufacture and distribute valves, sensors, switches and control products used on engines, compressors, turbines and other powered equipment for the oil and gas, pipeline, power generation, marine engine and general industrial markets. Many of these products are designed for use in hazardous environments.

Non-destructive Inspection and Measurement Instrumentation - We manufacture non-destructive inspection and measurement solutions including measurement probes, robotics, vibration sensors, switches and transmitters. These solutions are applied principally in nuclear energy markets. Many of these products are designed for use in hazardous environments.

The Energy Systems &#38; Controls segment companies' sales reflect a combination of standard products and large engineered projects. Standard products generally ship within two weeks of receipt of order, and large engineered projects may have lead times of several months. As such, backlog may fluctuate depending upon the timing of large project awards.

Materials and Suppliers

We believe most materials and supplies we use are readily available from numerous sources and suppliers throughout the world. However, some components and sub-assemblies are currently available from a limited number of suppliers. Some high-performance components for digital imaging products can be in short supply and/or suppliers have occasional difficulty manufacturing such components to our specifications. We regularly investigate and identify alternative sources where possible, and we believe these conditions equally affect our competitors. Supply shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our sales although delays in shipments have occurred following such supply interruptions.

&#160;

Backlog

Our backlog includes only firm unfilled orders expected to be recognized as revenue within twelve months. Backlog was $1.07 billion at December 31, 2015, and $1.04 billion at December 31, 2014.

Distribution and Sales

Distribution and sales occur through direct sales offices, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. In addition, our Medical &#38; Scientific Imaging segment also sells through value added resellers ("VARs") and OEMs.

Environmental Matters and Other Governmental Regulation

Our operations and properties are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including those governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety. We use, generate and dispose of hazardous substances and waste in our operations and could be subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and clean-up of contaminated properties and related claims. We are required to conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all countries as these requirements change. In connection with our acquisitions, we may assume significant environmental liabilities, some of which we may not be aware of, or may not be quantifiable, at the time of acquisition. In addition, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new requirements could increase our costs or subject us to new or increased liabilities.

Customers

No customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales for 2015 for any of our segments or for our company as a whole.

Competition

Generally, our products and solutions face significant competition, usually from a limited number of competitors. We believe that we are a leader in most of our markets, and no single company competes with us over a significant number of product lines. Competitors might be large or small in size, often depending on the size of the niche market we serve. We compete primarily on product quality, performance, innovation, technology, price, applications expertise, system and service flexibility, distribution channel access and customer service capabilities.

Patents and Trademarks

In addition to trade secrets, unpatented know-how, and other intellectual property rights, we own or license the rights under a number of patents, trademarks and copyrights relating to certain of our products and businesses. We also employ various methods, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with individuals and companies we do business with, employees, distributors, representatives and customers to protect our trade secrets and know-how. We believe our operating units are not substantially dependent on any single patent, trademark, copyright, or other item of intellectual property or group of patents, trademarks or copyrights.

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, we had 10,806 employees, with 7,724 located in the United States. We have 164 employees who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good.

Available Information

All reports we file electronically with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and our annual proxy statements, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible at no cost on our website at www.ropertech.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. These filings are also accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines; the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee; and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available on our website. Any amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers will be posted on our website within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE"). The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report.

We have included the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer certifications regarding our public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 of this report. Additionally, we filed with the NYSE the Chief Executive Officer certification regarding our compliance with the NYSE's Corporate Governance Listing Standards (the "Listing Standards") pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the Listing Standards. We filed the certification with the NYSE on June 29, 2015 and our Chief Executive Officer indicated that he was not aware of any violations of the Listing Standards by us.

