 Item 1. Description of Business 

Business Development 

History 

Reflect Scientific, Inc., a Utah corporation (the &#147;Company,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; &#147;our,&#148; &#147;us&#148; and words of similar import), was organized under the laws of the State of Utah on November 3, 1999, under the name &#147;Cole, Inc.&#148; On December 31, 2003, we acquired Reflect Scientific, Inc., a California corporation. We changed our name to &#147;Reflect Scientific, Inc.&#148; and succeeded to the business operations of our wholly-owned subsidiary, that involved the manufacture and distribution of unique laboratory consumables and disposables such as filtration and purification products, customized sample handling vials, electronic wiring assemblies, high temperature silicone, graphite and vespel/graphite sealing components for use by original equipment manufacturers (&#147;OEM&#148;) in the chemical analysis industries, primarily in the field of gas/liquid chromatography. See our 8-K Current Report dated December 31, 2003, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 15, 2004, and is incorporated herein by reference. See Part IV, Item 15.

On November 29, 2005, we announced the execution of a Letter of Intent to acquire Cryomastor Corporation, a California corporation (&#147;Cryomastor&#148; [sometimes called &#147;Cryometrix,&#148; its amended name]).

Effective as of April 4, 2006, we entered into a Purchase Agreement (the &#147;JMST Agreement&#148;) with JM SciTech, LLC, a limited liability company organized under the laws of the State of Colorado, and doing business as JMST Systems (&#147;JMST&#148;); David Carver, an individual (&#147;Carver&#148;); and Julie Martin, an individual (&#147;Martin&#148;) (JMST, Carver and Martin are sometimes hereinafter referred to collectively as &#147;Sellers&#148;). Pursuant to the JMST Agreement, we purchased and JMST sold all right, title and interest in and to the JMST Technology (the &#147;JMST Technology&#148;), as described in the JMST Agreement; and Carver conveyed and assigned any rights he had in and to certain patents (the &#147;Carver Patents&#148;) and related intellectual assets as described in the JMST Agreement (collectively, including the Carver Patents, referred to herein as the &#147;Carver Technology&#148;). JMST had created a line of chemical detection instruments that are used in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and homeland security markets. The patented technology allows researchers to accurately analyze chemical formulations for their composition and identity. See our 8-K Current Report dated April 4, 2006, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 7, 2006, and is incorporated herein by reference. See Part IV, Item 15.

On June 27, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Cryomastor pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the &#147;Cryomastor Merger Agreement&#148;), which became our wholly-owned subsidiary; changed its name to &#147;Cryometrix, Inc.&#148;; and succeeded to its business operations, which involved the manufacture and sale of ultra low temperature freezer systems powered by liquid nitrogen for use in bio-repositories associated with the biotech and pharmaceutical industries, as well as government facilities, universities and many other diverse applications that require a large number of reliable and energy efficient freezers. See our 8-K Current Report dated June 27, 

2006, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 30, 2006, and is incorporated herein by reference. See Part IV, Item 15.

On November 15, 2006, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the &#147;Image Labs Merger Agreement&#148;) between Image Acquisition Corp., a Georgia corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiary (&#147;Merger Subsidiary&#148;); Smithgall &#38; Associates, Inc., dba Image Labs International, a Georgia corporation (&#147;Image Labs&#148;); and Brian Smithgall (&#147;Smithgall&#148;), the sole shareholder of Image Labs (the &#147;Image Labs Shareholder&#148;). Established in 1993 and located in Bozeman, Montana, Image Labs is a manufacturer and developer of factory automation equipment. The primary product lines focus in the areas of automated inspection, measurement and material handling. See our 8-K Current Report dated November 15, 2006, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 21, 2006, and is incorporated herein by reference. See Part IV, Item 15. In February 2010, management made the decision to divest this business. 

On November 17, 2006, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the &#147;The All Temp Merger Agreement&#148;) between our wholly-owned subsidiary, Cryometrix, Inc. (&#147;Merger Subsidiary&#148;); All Temp Engineering Inc., a California corporation (&#147;All Temp&#148;); J F Dain &#38; E L Dain CO-TTEES Dain Family Revocable Trust U/A Dated 12/17/2001 (the &#147;Dain Trust&#148;) and Nicholas J. Henneman (&#147;Henneman&#148;), the sole All Temp Shareholders (collectively, the &#147;All Temp Shareholders&#148;); and John F. Dain, individually (&#147;Dain&#148;). All Temp was located in San Jose, California and had been providing engineered solutions and services to the cryogenics industry for over 24 years. All Temp served numerous companies in business sectors such as biotech, pharmaceutical, medical devices, research, universities, semiconductor, aerospace, military, and industrial food processing. See our 8-K Current Report dated November 17, 2006, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 22, 2006, and is incorporated herein by reference. See Part IV, Item 15.

On June 29, 2007, we completed the sale of $2,500,000 of debentures. See our 8-K Current Report dated July 2, 2008, and is incorporated herein by reference. See Part IV, Item 15.

On October 31, 2009, the Company completed the contract obligations of All Temp and moved its Cryometrix subsidiary to Montana. The consolidation of the manufacturing operations was made to bring greater efficiencies while at the same time provide cost savings. 

On March 2, 2010, the Company sold the assets and certain liabilities of Image Labs and Miralogix to an employee. The time line from the point at which the Company made the decision to sell to the accepting of the offer and closing of the transaction was less than two weeks. The sale was structured such that the Company received no cash from the transaction, while the acquirer took possession of all the assets and assumed all of the liabilities of Image Labs and Miralogix except for those related to accrued payroll and related personnel expenses. Management&#146;s decision to divest this subsidiary was based on its strategic plan to refocus its product lines and sales efforts to its proprietary green technologies. A history of operating losses at Image Labs and Miralogix, the potential necessity of additional capital expenditures, and the soft market for its products due to economic conditions, were additional considerations in making that determination. The Company recorded a loss of $947,941 all of which is reported in the year ended December 31, 2010. In conjunction with the disposal of this business entity, $99,100 in cash was transferred to the new owners. With the sale of operations in Montana, the Cryometrix subsidiary was moved to and consolidated with the Reflect Scientific operations in Utah. 

In June 2012, management reached agreement with all but one of the debenture holders on a plan to settle the debentures held by them that are in default. The settlement agreement was contingent upon the Company making a cash payment to them in the amount of $75,000 in full satisfaction of the indebtedness. In exchange for the $75,000 payment, the debenture holder would cancel the debentures, penalty, interest and warrants. The Company made the agreed upon payment on July 10, 2012. Under the terms of the agreement all indebtedness was extinguished, which included the principal amount of $1,750,000, default penalties of $525,000 and accrued interest of $1,204,875. The related warrants were also extinguished by the settlement agreement. The Company recognized a gain on extinguishment of debt of $3,428,875 on the settlement agreement. All remaining unexercised warrants expired on June 29, 2012.

&#160;

Business 

Overview 

Reflect Scientific is engaged in the manufacture and distribution of innovative products targeted at the life science market. Our customers include hospitals and diagnostic laboratories, pharmaceutical and biotech companies, universities, government and private sector research facilities, and chemical and industrial companies. 

Our goal is to provide our customers with the best solution for their needs. This philosophy extends into our business strategies and acquisition plans. Through a series of strategic acquisitions, we acquired technology that has enabled us to expand our line of products 

that take advantage of market needs. Our growing product portfolio includes ultra low temperature freezers and chemical detectors, in addition to supplying OEM products to the life science industry.

Our Visacon brand chemical detectors provide our OEM customers a cost effective detection product that allows them to extend their markets. Detectors use patented optical detection technologies that can be tailored for pharmaceutical, biotechnology or other life science applications. We launched our next generation detector in late 2013 and expected that, due to price and features advantages, detector sales would grow significantly. While sales have been steady, we did not experience the growth that had been anticipated at the time of the product introduction into the marketplace. 

Our Cryometrix brand ultra low temperature freezers innovative design enables our customers to save substantially on energy costs related to cryogenic storage. Ultra low temperature freezers are used world-wide for the storage of vaccines, DNA, RNA, proteins and many other biological and chemical samples. There is a growing need for energy efficient, reliable ultra low temperature storage units. Our Cryometrix freezers are targeted to expand into this growing market. The application of this technology for use in refrigerated trailers (commonly called &#147;reefers&#148;) used to transport goods which need to be maintained in a cold environment significantly broadens the market for this technology. The utilization of this technology in reefers eliminates the current method of cooling, which utilize engines run on hydrocarbon fuels. The Cryometrix technology is pollutant free and is more cost effective and efficient than the technologies currently used. 

Products 

Reflect Scientific designs, develops and sells scientific equipment for the Life Science and Manufacturing industries. Since our wholly owned subsidiary Reflect Scientific&#146;s organization in 1991, our focus is and has been on providing value added products, analytic testing supplies and equipment, and stand alone products for the life science and industrial market place. Reflect Scientific&#146;s products range from non-mechanical Cyrometrix &#153; freezers, state of the art detectors, and products and parts for the life science industry to tools and analytical services for industrial manufacturing.

All of Reflect Scientific &#146; s products and services are developed with one key factor in mind: Providing a superior cost/benefit to the customer than do competitive products in the same market space. With years of experience in the life science and industrial manufacturing markets, Reflect Scientific has been able to develop not only unique patentable products, but products that we believe offer immediate advantages and cost savings over any other competing and existing products in the market.

We have developed a business model with a focus on intellectual expertise in the design and development of products and solutions for life science and industrial manufacturing industries. We outsource the majority of our manufacturing, allowing us to maintain the flexibility to develop products across multiple lines and industries. Our strength is in developing and providing products which we believe offer immediate and verifiable cost saving solutions. 

We have found a number of companies that can manufacture products to our specification, allowing us to focus on our core competencies of development and design, and maintain a flexible corporate structure capable of taking advantage of new opportunities without the large capital investment required to acquire tooling and manufacturing equipment. Our focus on the intellectual expertise, as opposed to manufacturing of products, allows us to develop products along multiple industry lines and to tailor our products to specific needs in a variety of industrial settings. Our products are sold in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical industries, as well as the manufacturing industries, such as automotive.

Cryometrix Freezers 

Our Cryometrix ultra low temperature freezers are, we believe, a technological breakthrough that provides energy savings and other critically important benefits to cryo-storage customers in the Life Science related industries. Ultra low temperature freezers are used in multiple industries for the storage of everything from blood to cancer vaccines. These types of freezers are used by hospitals and biotechnology research facilities. 

The only ultra low temperature freezers currently available are produced by a limited number of companies and rely on a mechanical process for cooling. Because of inadequacies in the mechanical process, we believe there is wastage of inventory each year because of the problems of proper cooling inherent in the mechanical freezers. 

Our freezers incorporate a disruptive technology, as they are based on a complete divergence from the technology currently used in ultra low temperature freezers. Through the advantages of our technology, we believe our freezers solve the current inadequacies and provide 

immediate cost savings for our clients. Current cryogenic storage equipment falls short of customer expectations in a variety of key performance criteria.

&#167;

High energy usage &#150; a growing problem with rising energy costs 

&#167;

Inflexible temperature range &#150; existing units cannot be easily modified for colder requirements (colder temperatures are an industry trend)

&#167;

Sample inventory is at risk in the event of a power failure 

&#167;

Poor temperature uniformity &#150;samples in different areas of the freezer can experience wide variations in temperatures which is undesirable from a regulatory standpoint.

Our Cryometrix ultra low temperature freezer uses a patented design and technology which is powered by liquid nitrogen. Through the use of a liquid nitrogen powered freezer system we are able to address the market need for:

&#167;

Low energy requirements 

&#167;

Flexible temperature control &#150; wide range of usable temperatures

&#167;

Power failures have little effect - uses passive liquid nitrogen technology rather than electrically powered compressors.

&#167;

Uniform temperatures throughout freezer &#150; more usable storage volume

&#167;

Much larger storage volume per area of floor space occupied &#150; reduced facilities cost

&#167;

Reliable and essentially maintenance free, further lowering cost of ownership

&#167;

Environmental issues related to pollution using the current refrigerated trailer (&#147;reefer&#148;) technology

We believe existing mechanical freezers are outdated and our freezers to be the desired technology to which the industry will move, providing us the opportunity to gain a significant market share in this large market.

The adaptation of the freezer technology to reefers for transporting perishable items opens a significant new market. Trailers can easily be retrofit with the Cryogenix unit, which operates pollutant free, more efficiently, and at a cost savings compared to the diesel powered units currently used. The reefer market is a $1 billion market. The non-polluting Cryogenix unit provides significant benefits over any other unit currently marketed.

Detectors 

Our chemical detector products serve the analytical instrumentation sector of the Life Sciences market. These optically based chemical detection instruments provide a cost-effective, high-performance alternative for original equipment manufacturers (OEM). One major use for these detectors is the analysis of whole blood for metabolic diseases. 

Companies that manufacture beneficial chemicals or biotechnology products are often required to develop a methodology to detect their presence in the environment or in living tissue. Recent market trends have been toward the creation of a dedicated system that is specific for a particular chemical. As the market expands for dedicated instrumentation, certain critical issues arise.

&#167;

Lack of high quality, high performance OEM instrumentation - large instrument manufacturers sell the service/instrument combination only under their own brand name 

&#167;

High price points - instrument company structure does not allow value pricing

Our products provide the building blocks to create such a system. Patented technology provides an array of benefits to the OEM customer:

&#167;

High performance instrumentation - meets or exceeds industry standards for chemical detection

&#167;

Technological breakthroughs provide cost-effective detection instrument solutions

&#167;

Versatile configurations allow tailoring to specific customer need without the necessity for expensive custom engineering

&#167;

Certified by various regulatory agencies for sale worldwide

With the expanding focus on the need for detectors we designed a base system that can be tooled for multiple uses, offering flexibility to our customers. We intend to further penetrate the dedicated OEM instrument market through new product development and continued cost reductions in manufacturing to meet price points. 

Reflect Scientific is also poised to provide consumables to the same group of customers that purchase detectors. This one stop shopping is very attractive to customers and is unique in the OEM supply industry, further making Reflect Scientific the choice for OEMs.

Competition 

The environment for our products and services is intensely competitive. Although the complexity of the products we produce limits the number of companies we compete with, the companies with competing technology are generally larger and often subsidiaries or divisions of very large multinational companies. Our competitor&#146;s size and association with large multinational companies gives them advantages over us in the ability to access potential customers. Many potential customers already purchase products either directly from our competitors or from another subsidiary of these large multinational companies, creating natural inroads to sales that we do not possess. 

Given our relative size versus our competitors, we are often required to seek niche markets for our products or focus on selling components to be used in our competitors larger detection units. We believe, however, that our technology and experience in the ultra low freezers and detectors allows us to be competitive in those markets. As our ultra low freezer products are new to the marketplace, the products long term commercial acceptance is still unknown. Most of our products compete against multiple competitors, with our refrigeration products competing primarily against Thermo Fisher Scientific and Sanyo Corporation.

Growth Plan 

While we will continue to evaluate acquisitions of businesses and technologies to enhance our revenues in the Life Science and green technology markets, our primary focus is on growing our own product lines through increasing market share and the addition of new products to our current offerings. 

We seek to expand the applications for our products and equipment into additional markets as we develop brand recognition. We hope to be able to obtain market leverage from our existing products and name recognition as we use our existing offerings and product strengths to position us as a key supplier of automation equipment, inspection equipment and cryogenic storage solutions. This strategic plan will also enable us to further diversify our customer base.

Manufacturing, Supplies, and Quality Control 

Many of our products are manufactured by third party manufactures. By outsourcing our manufacturing we are able to reduce the overall cost of our products. We self manufacture lower volume products that are less labor and parts intensive in our facility in Orem, Utah. 

Regulation and Environmental Compliance 

Presently, none of our products are in highly regulated industries.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials and Names of Principal Suppliers 

Sources and availability of key materials and intermediates continue to remain stable. Where supply is considered a critical success factor for our business, we have certified primary vendors in place and have identified secondary vendors.

Dependence on One or a Few Major Customers 

We are not dependent on any large customer.

Need for any Governmental Approval of Principal Products or Services 

No products presently being manufactured or sold by us are subject to prior governmental approvals.

Effect of Existing or Probable Governmental Regulations on the Business 

We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This Act creates a strong and independent accounting oversight board to oversee the conduct of auditors of public companies and strengthens auditor independence. It also requires steps to enhance the direct responsibility of senior members of management for financial reporting and for the quality of financial disclosures made by public companies; establishes clear statutory rules to limit, and to expose to public view, possible conflicts of interest affecting securities analysts; creates guidelines for audit committee members appointment, compensation and oversight of the work of public companies&#146; auditors; prohibits certain insider trading during pension fund blackout periods; and establishes a federal crime of securities fraud, among other provisions. 

Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act requires all companies with securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act to comply with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding proxy solicitations, as outlined in Regulation 14A. Matters submitted to stockholders of our Company at a special or annual meeting thereof or pursuant to a written consent will require our Company to provide our stockholders with the information outlined in Schedules 14A or 14C of Regulation 14; preliminary copies of this information must be submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission at least 10 days prior to the date that definitive copies of this information are forwarded to our stockholders. 

We are also required to file annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q with the Securities Exchange Commission on a regular basis, and will be required to timely disclose certain material events (e.g., changes in corporate control; acquisitions or dispositions of a significant amount of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; changes in executive officers and directors; and bankruptcy) in a Current Report on Form 8-K. 

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises, Concessions, Royalty Agreements or Labor Contracts, including Duration 

All patents and trademarks relating to acquired technologies have been assigned to us. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and developments made by our personnel and incorporated into our products or otherwise falling within our fields of interest. 

We protect some of our technology as trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks used in connection with our products.

Patents have been issued covering the following products:

JMST chemical detectors &#150; 4 patents issued

Cryomastor ultra low temperature freezers &#150; 2 patents issued

PATENT INFORMATION 

Patent number 

Title 

Issue 

Filing 

Expiration 

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

7,621,148

Ultra-low temperature bio-sample storage system

Nov. 24, 2009

Aug. 7, 2007

Nov. 24, 2027

6,804,976

High reliability multi-tube thermal exchange structure

Oct 19, 2004

Dec 12, 2003

Dec 12, 2023

6,530,286

Method and apparatus for measuring fluid flow

Mar 11, 2003

May 9, 2000

May 9, 2020

5,969,812

Spectrophotometer apparatus with dual concentric

beams and fiber optic beam splitter

Oct 19, 1999

Oct 18, 1995

Oct, 18, 2015 (1)

5,699,156

Spectrophotometer apparatus with dual light sources and optical paths, fiber optic pick-up and sample cell therefore

Dec 16, 1997

Nov 23, 1994

Dec 16, 2014 (1)

5,694,215

Optical array and processing electronics and method therefore for use in spectroscopy

Dec 2, 1997

Mar 4, 1996

Mar 4, 2016

(1)

Filings are being made to extend the life of this patent. As of the date of this report there has been no determination as to whether the application for extension will be granted.

Royalty agreements were executed with JMST and Cryometrix as a condition of the companies&#146; acquisition of the patents and technology related to the detectors. Under the terms of the royalty agreements:

JMST &#150; David Carver will receive a royalty payment on gross revenues related to revenues derived from the Carver Patents or Carver Technology. Such payments are due on revenue in excess of $500,000 derived from products under the Carver Patents or Carver Technology. The royalty payment is 2.5% on the revenue in excess of $500,000 and is payable quarterly. Payments are to be made in the common stock of Reflect Scientific, not to exceed 500,000 shares in total. New products developed from the Carver Technology are subject to a royalty of 3% of gross revenues in excess of $100,000, with an additional 2% if gross revenues exceed $600,000. Royalties will also be paid in our common stock annually. Common stock will be valued at $3.00 per share for these purposes. Royalty payments are only due for years where there are valid Carver Patents. To date no royalties have been earned or paid under this agreement.

Research and Development Costs During the Last Two Fiscal Years 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, we expended $72,863 for research and development. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we expended $22,135 for research and development. The majority of the research and development on our products is performed by independent contractors who have been enhancing technologies, primarily on the reefer unit and the detectors. We expect research and development cost to increase in the future with the development work required to commercialize our Cryometrix freezers.

Employees 

&#160;

As of March 28, 2016, subsequent to the balance sheet date, we had 8 full-time employees. None of our employees are represented under a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our relations with our employees to be good. 

Reports to Security Holders 

You may read and copy any materials that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commissions&#146; Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may also find all of the reports that we have filed electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission at their Internet site www.sec.gov.

