 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

Republic is the second largest provider of non-hazardous solid waste collection, transfer, disposal, recycling, and energy services in the United States, as measured by revenue. As of December 31, 2015 , we operated in 41 states and Puerto Rico through 340 &#32;collection operations, 201 &#32;transfer stations, 193 &#32;active landfills, 67 &#32;recycling centers, 8 &#32;treatment, recovery and disposal facilities, and 12 &#32;salt water disposal wells. We also operated 69 landfill gas and renewable energy projects and had post-closure responsibility for 126 &#32;closed landfills. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1996. 

Based on an industry trade publication, the United States non-hazardous solid waste services industry generates annual revenue of approximately $60 billion, of which approximately 45% is generated by publicly owned waste companies. Industry data also indicates that the non-hazardous solid waste services industry in the United States remains fragmented as privately held companies and municipal and other local governmental authorities generate approximately 35% and 20%, respectively, of total industry revenue. We believe growth in the solid waste industry historically has been linked primarily to population growth and growth in the overall economy, including the level of new household and business formation and changes in residential and commercial construction activity. 

Our operations are national in scope, but the physical collection and disposal of waste is very much a local business and the dynamics and opportunities differ in each of our markets. By combining local operating management with standardized business practices, we drive greater overall operating efficiency across the Company while maintaining day-to-day operating decisions at the local level, closest to the customer. 

The Five Pillars of Our Strategy - Profitable Growth through Differentiation 

We believe that our products and services are valuable, and that by developing a superior team and delivering superior products, we can differentiate ourselves from our competitors. Differentiation allows us to attract and retain the best talent, win more customers, increase loyalty, and ultimately drive higher revenue and profits. Our strategy of Profitable Growth through Differentiation &#32; is built on five key pillars including (1) market position, (2) operating model, (3) people and talent agenda, (4) customer zeal, and (5) digital platform. 

Market Position 

The goal of our market position pillar is to develop the best vertically integrated market position to enable us to build density and improve returns. We strive to have a number one or number two market position in each of the markets we serve, or have a clear path on how we will achieve a leading market position over time. In situations where we cannot establish a leading market position, or where operations are not generating acceptable returns, we may decide to divest certain assets and reallocate resources to other markets. 

We have a robust market planning process to identify opportunities to grow internally through capital investments and infrastructure development, and externally through acquisitions and public-private partnerships. Additionally, our market planning process allows us to analyze market conditions and proactively adjust to trends as they emerge, including the effects of demographic shifts, market changes and the competitive landscape. 

Internal Growth 

&#8226; 

Volume Growth &#32;- We believe waste volumes are driven by population growth, household formation and new business formation. Volume growth through increases in our customer base and service offerings is the most capital efficient method to grow our business. We seek to obtain long-term contracts for collecting solid waste under residential collection contracts with municipalities, exclusive franchise agreements, and small-container commercial and large-container industrial contracts. By obtaining such long-term agreements, we can grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the underlying economic growth in these markets. In addition, by securing a base of long-term recurring revenue, we are better able to protect our market position from competition. We work to increase volumes while ensuring that prices charged for services provide an appropriate return on our capital investment. 

&#8226; 

Price Increases &#32;- We seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, improve our operating margins and earn an adequate return on our substantial investments in vehicles, equipment, landfills, transfer stations and recycling centers. 

&#8226; 

Expansion of Recycling Capabilities &#32; - &#32; Based on an industry trade publication, we believe approximately 34% of municipal solid waste is recycled. Communities have increasingly committed to their residents to enhance and expand their recycling programs. We continue to focus on innovative waste disposal processes and programs to help our customers achieve their goals related to sustainability and environmentally sound waste practices while also generating an acceptable return. During 2015 , we invested approximately $36 million to develop and upgrade our recycling centers. We will continue to look for opportunities to expand our recycling capabilities in markets where these services are desired and provide an appropriate return on our investment. 

&#8226; 

Infrastructure Development - We seek to identify opportunities to further our position as an integrated service provider in markets where we are not fully integrated. Our goal is to create market-specific, vertically integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection operations, transfer stations, landfills and recycling centers. Where appropriate, we obtain permits to build transfer stations, recycling centers and landfills that would vertically integrate our waste services or expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites. Development projects, while generally less capital intensive than acquisitions, typically require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no assurance of success. We undertake development projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available. 

External Growth 

&#8226; 

Acquisitions and Public-Private Partnerships &#32; - &#32; Our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on acquiring privately held solid waste and recycling companies that complement our existing business platform. We believe our ability to successfully complete these acquisitions is enhanced by the challenges facing many privately held companies, including increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing capital requirements due to changes in solid waste regulatory requirements and the limited number of exit strategies for privately held companies. We also evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies. 

We continue to invest in accretive acquisitions in existing markets. Generally, we expect to maintain a steady pace of tuck-in acquisition investment of approximately $100 million annually. Given our free cash flow, availability under our credit facilities and our ability to access the public capital markets, we have the flexibility to make additional acquisitions that will complement our existing business platform, including larger acquisitions if the right opportunities present themselves. 

We also focus on growth through public-private partnerships, which include the waste and recycling operations and facilities of municipal and other local governments. We believe we have an opportunity to acquire operations and facilities from municipalities, as they increasingly seek to raise capital and reduce risk. 

We realize synergies from consolidating businesses into our existing operations, whether through acquisitions or public-private partnerships, which allow us to reduce capital and expense requirements associated with truck routing, personnel, fleet maintenance, inventories and back-office administration. 

Operating Model 

The goal of our operating model pillar is to deliver a consistent, high quality service to all of our customers through the Republic Way: One Way. Everywhere. Every day . This approach of developing standardized processes with rigorous controls and tracking allows us to leverage our scale and deliver durable operational excellence. The Republic Way is the key to harnessing the best of what we do as operators and translating that across all facets of our business. 

A key enabler of the Republic Way is our organizational structure that fosters a high performance culture by maintaining 360 degree accountability and full profit and loss responsibility with general management, supported by a functional structure to provide subject matter expertise. This structure allows us to take advantage of our scale by coordinating functionally across all of our markets, while empowering local management to respond to unique market dynamics. 

We have rolled out several productivity and cost control initiatives designed to deliver the best service possible to our customers in the most efficient and environmentally sound way. 

Fleet Automation 

Approximately 72% of our residential routes have been converted to automated single driver trucks. By converting our residential routes to automated service, we reduce labor costs, improve driver productivity, decrease emissions and create a safer work environment for our employees. Additionally, communities using automated vehicles have higher participation rates in recycling programs, thereby complementing our initiative to expand our recycling capabilities. 

Fleet Conversion to Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) &#32; 

Approximately 16% of our fleet operates on CNG. We expect to continue our gradual fleet conversion to CNG, our preferred alternative fuel technology, as part of our ordinary annual fleet replacement process. We believe a gradual fleet conversion is most prudent to realize the full value of our previous fleet investments. Approximately 33% of our replacement vehicle purchases during 2015 &#32;were CNG vehicles. We believe using CNG vehicles provides us a competitive advantage in communities with strict clean emission initiatives that focus on protecting the environment. Although upfront costs are higher, using CNG reduces our overall fleet operating costs through lower fuel expenses. As of December 31, 2015 , we operated 38 CNG fueling stations. 

Standardized Maintenance &#32; 

Based on an industry trade publication, we operate the ninth largest vocational fleet in the United States. As of December 31, 2015 , our average fleet age in years, by line of business, was as follows: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Approximate Number of Vehicles 

&#160; 

Approximate Average Age 

Residential 

&#160; 

7,200 

&#160; 

Small-container Commercial 

&#160; 

4,400 

&#160; 

Large-container Industrial 

&#160; 

4,000 

&#160; 

Total 

&#160; 

15,600 

&#160; 

7.5 

OneFleet, our standardized vehicle maintenance program, enables us to use best practices for fleet management, truck care and maintenance. Through standardization of core functions, we believe we can minimize variability in our maintenance processes, resulting in higher vehicle quality and a lower environmental footprint, while extending the average service life of our fleet by one year. We believe operating a more reliable, greener, safer and more efficient fleet will lower our operating costs. We have implemented standardized maintenance programs for approximately 78% of our fleet maintenance operations as of December 31, 2015 . We expect to finish implementing our standardized maintenance program in 2016. 

Organizational Structure 

During 2015, we managed and evaluated our operations through three geographic regions - East, Central and West - which we identified as our reportable segments. Each region was organized into several areas and each area contained multiple business units or operating locations. Each of our regions and all of our areas provided collection, transfer, recycling and landfill services. See Note 14, Segment Reporting , to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of our operating segments. 

In January 2016, we realigned our field support functions by combining two organizational layers into one. This included the elimination of our three regions, the consolidation of our 20 areas into 10 and the streamlining of select roles at our Phoenix headquarters. We will reinvest and deploy resources into our areas by creating 10 area offices equipped with enhanced teams of operators and functional support roles. These area teams will be the resource epicenter for the Company&#8217;s business units that are closest to and serve our customers. The areas will be grouped and overseen by two Executive Vice Presidents of Operations. In connection with our restructuring, we will further evaluate our 2016 reporting segments. 

People and Talent Agenda 

The goal of our people and talent agenda pillar is to create an environment to attract and retain the best talent. Our people continue to be the most critical component in successfully executing our strategy. We strive to make Republic a desirable place to work for our approximately 33,000 full-time employees by creating learning experiences, programs, compensation and benefits that attract, develop, train, engage, motivate, reward and retain the best workforce. We aspire to be a company where the best people want to work and are engaged every day. We accomplish this through our focus on safety, learning and talent development, and diversity and inclusion. 

Safety &#32; 

Republic is dedicated to the safety of our employees, customers and the communities we serve. Due to the nature of our industry, we prioritize safety above all else and we recognize and reward employees for outstanding safety records. Over the past 8 years, our safety performance (based on OSHA recordable rates) has been 42% better than the industry average. Our Think, Choose, Live &#32;slogan encapsulates our everyday safety messaging to our employees to: Think &#32;about what you are doing, Choose &#32;the safe answer, and Live &#32;to go home to your family. With the phrase printed on numerous items, including hard hats and equipment our employees touch, there are constant reminders for employees to go home in the same condition that they came to work. Our goal is to ensure every one of our employees returns home safely each night. 

We are proud of our two safety incentive programs: Dedicated to Safety and Dedicated to Excellence. For Dedicated to Safety, employees must meet all safety requirements for the year, including no preventable accidents and no safety warnings. For Dedicated to Excellence, employees must earn the Dedicated to Safety Award and meet additional criteria for customer service, attendance and other performance metrics. Further, our industry-leading safety training program, Focus 6, provides employees with tips and techniques to prevent the six most common types of serious accidents: backing, intersections, push-pull-lift, rear collisions, rollover, and pedestrian. 

We take pride in recognizing employees who demonstrate a relentless commitment to safety. Employees with the best driving records are eligible for the industry&#8217;s most prestigious award, the National Waste &#38; Recycling Association&#8217;s Driver of the Year. Republic drivers have won 14 of the 18 Driver of the Year awards issued for the large truck category since 2009. 

Learning and Talent Development 

We are committed to developing our employees throughout their careers. Targeted onboarding experiences, including our Driver Training Center, Supervisor Onboarding and Sales Acceleration programs, focus on providing the fundamental skills each employee needs to succeed in his or her role. Our Leadership Trainee Program, an 18-month rotational experience for recent graduates, is another example of our commitment to providing opportunities for growth. 

Developing our leaders is also a critical part of our people and talent agenda. From Leadership Fundamentals, a program for new front line supervisors, to our Republic Services Executive Institute, a program for our highest potential executives, we have developed programs and experiences to ensure that as our leaders progress, they are accumulating the skills necessary to be successful at each level. Over the last year, more than 1,000 leaders have completed our Leadership Fundamentals program, creating a common language and toolkit for how we coach and develop employees. 

Diversity and Inclusion 

We are actively and intentionally creating an environment in which all individuals are welcomed and valued. In 2013, we launched Mosaic as our renewed approach and commitment to diversity and inclusion. Through Mosaic, we have developed new strategies and activities to continue creating a more diverse workforce and inclusive work environment. In this way, we can leverage our best thinking to improve our culture and better serve our customers. 

We believe there is no better way to protect our planet than to recruit and hire the heroes who have protected our country. We actively recruit and hire veterans - those transitioning from military life as well as those long discharged from active duty. We value the skills, experience and operational excellence they bring to our organization, as well as their commitment to a better tomorrow. Historically, we have had great success hiring veterans. In 2015, for example, 28% of general managers, 27% of operations managers, and 35% of maintenance managers that we hired self-identified as having served in the U.S. Army, Navy, Marines Air Force or Coast Guard. 

Customer Zeal 

The goal of our customer zeal pillar is to drive customer loyalty by offering differentiated products and services specifically designed to meet our customers&#8217; needs. We believe this increases customer loyalty and willingness to pay for a higher value service. 

To help our sales team with their ability to identify specific customer needs and configure the right offering, we launched Priority Based Selling (PBS) and our Capture pricing tool nationwide. 

&#8226; 

PBS enables us to identify and segment customers&#8217; buying priorities, and attract customers that are willing to pay for enhanced offerings. 

&#8226; 

Capture is a cloud-based pricing tool that creates a more professional sales experience, helps realize better pricing levels at the point of sale and provides enhanced controls over the quoting process. 

To ensure a consistent customer experience we are investing in our customer service capabilities and are in the process of consolidating over 100 customer service locations into three Customer Resource Centers. The new state-of-the-art facilities and the technology deployed will provide our customer service employees with the tools and capabilities they need to provide better levels of service across a myriad of touch points, including voice, email, text, social media channels and live chat. 

To ensure our efforts are making an impact and building customer loyalty, we also have enhanced the way we receive feedback from our customers, including net promoter score, to ensure that every General Manager receives recent, relevant feedback that allows him or her the ability to reach out to customers directly and address issues immediately. 

Digital Platform 

The goal of our digital platform pillar is to allow us to provide a consistent experience across our business while enabling our customers to do business with us through more channels and with better access to information. 

We are responding to our customers' requests for options to do business with us digitally. By increasing the ease of use and functionality of our web-based market presence, we believe we enhance customer satisfaction, interaction, and connectivity while lowering our costs. These tools reinforce to our customers that they can rely on us to handle their recycling and waste needs in a way that is easy and convenient for them. 

&#8226; 

Our MyResource customer portal and mobile app are online account management tools, allowing customers access to their accounts and our services. Approximately 1.2 million customers have enrolled in MyResource, significantly enhancing our customer interaction and connectivity. 

&#8226; 

Our click-to-buy channel allows customers to secure services on a real-time basis, and provides capabilities to meet our customer's buying preferences. 

We believe that leveraging technology to improve our core business strengthens our existing model and customer relationships, and will serve to solidify our differentiated offering. 

Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 

In addition to being committed to our customers and employees, we are also committed to the communities we serve and to the environment. We strive to be America&#8217;s preferred recycling and waste services partner. At Republic, we believe in the preservation of our Blue Planet - a cleaner, safer and healthier world. 

We believe we have a responsibility to regenerate our planet with the materials we are entrusted to handle every day by driving increased recycling, generating renewable energy, and helping our customers be more resourceful. Additionally, we must lead by example, working diligently to improve our relationship with the environment and society through decreased vehicle emissions, innovative landfill technologies, use of renewable energy, community engagement and employee growth opportunities. Sustainability contributes to a cleaner world, while also providing opportunities to improve brand awareness, to increase customer loyalty, to grow our business, to motivate our employees and to differentiate Republic from our competitors. 

To maximize our efforts, we have chosen to focus our sustainability platform around the following five areas: 

&#8226; 

Operations . We are working to minimize the impact of our operations around our fleet, our landfills and our buildings. Whenever we reduce waste and inefficiency, we become more sustainable and we reduce our costs. 

&#8226; 

Materials Management. We recognize we have an opportunity to extract value from materials in the waste stream in the form of commodities and energy and also reduce greenhouse gas emission from those materials. 

&#8226; 

Communities. We are devoted to being a good neighbor through customer engagement, philanthropic giving, and infrastructure investments. 

&#8226; 

Safety . We are committed to creating a safe environment for our employees, our customers and the communities we serve. 

&#8226; 

People . We employ and develop talented professionals who are committed to our planet, our customers and our Company. 

Each of these areas has a significant impact on the environment and society and contributes to preserving our Blue Planet, while forming the foundation of our business going forward. We have developed programs that will enable us to reduce our emissions by 2.5 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent over the next four years, including developing at least two landfill 

gas-to-energy projects each year, adding at least 150,000 tons per year of recycling capacity, and reducing the greenhouse gas emissions from our fleet by 3% by 2018. 

We are tracking our progress and performance and benchmarking against our industry peers and other companies outside of our industry. In 2015 , we participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) S&#38;P 500 Climate Change Assessment. The resulting report represents the progress companies achieve in reducing emissions, responding to climate-related risks and opportunities, and mobilizing influence to manage climate change. Our 2015 CDP Report score improved strongly from the prior year. In 2014, our inaugural year, we established our baseline for future submissions. In 2015, we earned a disclosure score of 98 out of 100, which reflects our strong commitment to transparency, thoroughness and responsibility, and an A- band in performance, which is one of the highest performance scores possible. We also released a Sustainability Report that modeled the GRI G4 protocol which is available on our website at www.republicservices.com. 

Additionally, our board of directors formed a Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee during 2015. This committee has oversight responsibility with respect to our sustainability performance, our corporate responsibilities, our role as a socially responsible organization and our enterprise risk, including cyber security, environmental and reputational risks. 

Cash Utilization Strategy 

We believe our ability to consistently increase free cash flow drives shareholder value and also provides useful information regarding the recurring cash provided by our operations. Free cash flow also demonstrates our ability to execute our cash utilization strategy, which includes investments in acquisitions and returning a majority of free cash flow to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We are committed to an efficient capital structure and maintaining our investment grade credit ratings on our senior debt, which was rated BBB+ by Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s Ratings Services, BBB by Fitch Ratings, Inc. and Baa3 by Moody&#8217;s Investors Service, Inc. as of December 31, 2015 . Such ratings have allowed us, and should continue to allow us, to readily access capital markets at competitive rates. 

We manage our free cash flow by ensuring that capital expenditures and operating asset levels are appropriate in light of our existing business and growth opportunities, and by closely managing our working capital, which consists primarily of accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued landfill and environmental costs. 

Dividends 

In July 2015 , our board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.30 per share, representing a 7.1% increase over the prior year. Over the last 5 years, our dividend has increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 8.4%. We expect to continue paying quarterly cash dividends and may consider additional dividend increases if we believe they will enhance shareholder value. 

Share Repurchases 

In October 2015 , our board of directors added $900 million &#32;to the existing share repurchase authorization. As of December 31, 2015 , there were $855.5 million &#32;remaining under our share repurchase authorization. At least annually, our board of directors reviews the intrinsic value of our stock. During 2016 , we expect to use approximately $400 million of our remaining authorization to repurchase shares of our common stock. 

Shareholder Value 

We are committed to creating long-term shareholder value by generating consistent earnings and cash flow growth, while continually improving returns on invested capital. Our incentive compensation programs are aligned with these objectives at all levels of management. We have an active shareholder outreach program and routinely interact with shareholders on a number of matters, including governance and executive compensation. 

Management Team 

We believe we have one of the most experienced management teams in the solid waste industry. 

Donald W. Slager &#32;became our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and remained our President on January 1, 2011, after having served as our President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) from the Allied Waste Industries, Inc. (Allied) acquisition in December 2008 until then. In addition to his duties as CEO, Mr. Slager resumed the role of principal operating executive from November 2011 until August 2012 and then from October 2013 to June 2014. Prior to the Allied acquisition, Mr. Slager worked for Allied from 1992 through 2008 and served in various management positions, including President and COO from 2004 through 2008 and Executive Vice President and COO from 2003 to 2004. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Slager served as Senior Vice President, Operations. Mr. Slager held various management positions at Allied from 1992 to 2003, and was 

previously General Manager at National Waste Services, where he served in various management positions since 1985. Mr. Slager has over 35 years of experience in the solid waste industry. Mr. Slager has been a member of our Board of Directors since June 24, 2010. 

Jeffrey A. Hughes &#32;was named Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer in December 2008. Before that, Mr. Hughes served as Senior Vice President, Eastern Region Operations for Allied from 2004 until the Allied acquisition in December 2008. Mr. Hughes served as Assistant Vice President of Operations Support for Allied from 1999 to 2004 and as a District Manager for Allied from 1988 to 1999. Mr. Hughes has over 28 years of experience in the solid waste industry. 

Robert A. Maruster &#32;was elected Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer in June 2014. Mr. Maruster has years of broad-based operational experience in the airline industry. He joined Republic from JetBlue Airways Corporation, where he was its COO/Executive Vice President from 2009 to April 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Maruster served JetBlue as its Senior Vice President, Customer Service and Vice President, Operational Planning. Before joining JetBlue in 2005, he served for 12 years in various management roles for Delta Air Lines, culminating in his role running the Atlanta Hub as Vice President, Operations and Customer Service. 

Michael P. Rissman &#32;has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary since August 2009. Previously, Mr. Rissman had served as acting General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from March 2009. Mr. Rissman joined Allied as Vice President and Deputy General Counsel in July 2007 and continued in the same positions at Republic following the Allied acquisition in December 2008. Prior to joining Allied, Mr. Rissman was a partner at Mayer Brown LLP in Chicago, where he worked from 1990 until coming to Allied. 

Charles F. Serianni &#32;was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in August 2014. Mr. Serianni is a seasoned senior executive with 31 years of experience in a variety of progressively more responsible roles. He was named Vice President, Region Controller for the Company's former West Region in July 2013. Before that, Mr. Serianni served as our Assistant Controller starting in June 1998 and progressed to Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer in December 2008. He served as the Accounting Operations Director for Republic Industries, Inc. (AutoNation) from February 1997 to June 1998. Before that, Mr. Serianni served as the Accounting Operations Director for Sunglass Hut International, Inc. from May 1993 to February 1997, and as Manager, Accounting and Auditing Services for Deloitte &#38; Touche from September 1984 to May 1993. 

Our local and area management teams have extensive industry experience in growing, operating and managing solid waste companies and have substantial experience in their local geographic markets. This allows us to quickly respond to and meet our customers&#8217; needs and stay in touch with local businesses and municipalities. We believe our strong area management teams allow us to effectively and efficiently drive our initiatives and help ensure consistency throughout the organization. Our area management teams and area presidents have extensive authority, responsibility and autonomy for operations within their respective geographic markets. As a result of retaining experienced managers with extensive knowledge of and involvement in their local communities, we are proactive in anticipating customers&#8217; needs and adjusting to changes in our markets. We also seek to implement the best practices of our various business units throughout our operations to continue improving our operations and our operating margins. 

Integrated Operations 

We believe Republic is a company with a strong, national operating platform that allows us to compete more effectively and efficiently in the local markets in which we operate. We seek to achieve a high rate of internalization by controlling waste streams from the point of collection through processing or disposal. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , approximately 68% &#32;of the total waste volume we collected was disposed at landfills we own or operate (internalization). Our fully integrated markets generally have a lower cost of operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated markets. Through acquisitions, landfill operating agreements and other market development activities, we create market-specific, integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection operations, transfer stations and landfills. We also operate recycling centers in markets where diversion of waste is a priority, it is profitable to do so, and we can earn an appropriate return on our investment. 

Our operations primarily consist of providing collection, transfer and disposal of non-hazardous solid waste, recovering and recycling of certain materials, and energy services. 

Collection Services 

We provide residential, small-container commercial, and large-container industrial solid waste collection services through 340 &#32;collection operations. In 2015 , approximately 76% &#32;of our revenue was derived from our collection business. Within collection, approximately 25% &#32;of our revenue relates to residential services, approximately 31% &#32;relates to small-container commercial services, and approximately 21% &#32;relates to large-container industrial services. 

Our residential collection business involves the curbside collection of waste for transport to transfer stations, or directly to landfills or recycling centers. We typically perform residential solid waste collection services under contracts with municipalities, which we generally secure by competitive bid and which give us exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in the municipalities. These contracts usually range in duration from one to five years, although some of our exclusive franchises are for significantly longer periods. We also perform residential services on a subscription basis, in which individual households contract directly with us. The fees received for subscription residential collection are based primarily on the market, collection frequency, type of service, the distance to the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. In general, subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in advance by the customers receiving the service. 

In our small-container commercial business, we supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. We typically perform commercial collection services under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees are determined based on a number of factors including the market, collection frequency, type of equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, transportation costs and the cost of disposal. Our small-container commercial services are typically offered to small business complexes, multi-family housing and strip malls, and include industries such as restaurants, retail, real-estate, and professional and other services. 

Our large-container industrial collection business includes both recurring and temporary customer relationships. For the recurring portion, we supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes and rent compactors to large waste generators. We typically perform the collection services under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees are determined based on a number of factors including the market, collection frequency, type of equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, transportation costs and the cost of disposal. Our recurring large-container industrial services are typically offered to larger facilities, hotels and office buildings, and include industries such as manufacturing, retail, hospitality and professional and other services. 

For the temporary portion of our large-container industrial collection business, the majority of the waste relates to construction and demolition activities and is typically event-driven. We provide temporary waste collection services on a contractual basis with terms ranging from a single pickup to one-year or longer. 

We also provide recycling collection services tailored to our customers' requirements to complete our service offerings. 

Transfer Services 

We own or operate 201 &#32;transfer stations. Revenue at our transfer stations is primarily generated by charging tipping or disposal fees, which accounted for approximately 5% &#32;of our revenue during 2015 . Our collection operations deposit waste at these transfer stations, as do other private and municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer to disposal sites or recycling centers. Transfer stations provide collection operations with a cost effective means to consolidate waste and reduce transportation costs while providing our landfills with an additional "gate" to extend their geographic reach. 

When our own collection operations use our transfer stations, this improves internalization by allowing us to retain fees we would otherwise pay to third-party disposal sites. It also allows us to manage costs associated with waste disposal because: (1) transfer trucks have larger capacities than collection trucks, allowing us to deliver more waste to the landfill in each trip; (2) waste is accumulated and compacted at strategically located transfer stations to increase efficiency; and (3) we can retain volume by managing the waste to one of our own landfills rather than to a competitor&#8217;s. 

Landfill Services 

We own or operate 193 &#32;active landfills. We charge tipping fees to third parties, which accounted for approximately 12% &#32;of our revenue during 2015 . As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 37,100 &#32;permitted acres and total available permitted and probable expansion disposal capacity of approximately 5 billion &#32;in-place cubic yards. The in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to successfully renew operating permits and obtain expansion permits at our sites. Some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils. 

Most of our active landfill sites have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted acreage. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and the likelihood of obtaining an expansion. To satisfy future disposal demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at certain landfills; however, we cannot assure you that all proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed. 

Republic is committed to harnessing landfill gas, the natural byproduct of decomposing waste, and converting it to energy. The use of landfill gas provides our economy with benefits, including reducing air pollution through the capture and use of methane. As of December 31, 2015 , we operated 69 landfill gas and renewable energy projects. 

We also have responsibility for 126 &#32;closed landfills, for which we have associated closure and post-closure obligations. 

Recycling Services 

We own or operate 67 &#32;recycling centers. These facilities generate revenue through the processing and sale of old corrugated cardboard (OCC), old newspaper (ONP), aluminum, glass and other materials, which accounted for approximately 4% &#32;of our revenue during 2015 . Approximately 70% &#32;of our recycling center volume relates to OCC, ONP and other mixed paper. Of the 5.1 million tons we sold during 2015 , 2.5 million moved through our recycling centers and 2.6 million we collected and delivered to third parties. 

Changing market demand for recycled commodities causes volatility in commodity prices. At current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $27 million &#32;and $18 million , respectively. 

In certain instances we issue recycling rebates to municipalities or large industrial customers, which can be based on the price we receive upon the final sale of recycled commodities, a fixed contractual rate or other measures. We also receive rebates when we dispose of recycled commodities at third-party facilities. 

As consumer demand for recycling services has increased, we have met that demand by integrating recycling components to each of our collection service offerings. Our goal is to provide a complete waste stream management solution to our customers in an environmentally sustainable way. 

We continue to invest in proven technologies to control costs and to simplify and streamline recycling for our customers. For example, advanced sorting equipment, such as disk screens, magnets and optical sorters, identifies and separates different kinds of paper, metals, plastics and other materials to increase efficiency and maximize our recycling efforts. 

Energy Services 

In addition to certain of our landfill disposal sites, we own or operate 8 &#32;treatment, recovery and disposal facilities and 12 &#32;salt water disposal wells. Energy services waste is generated from the by-products of oil and natural gas exploration and production activity, including waste created throughout the initial drilling and completion of an oil or natural gas well, production wastes and water produced during a well's operating life, contaminated soils that require treatment during site reclamation, substances that require clean-up after a spill, as well as waste generated by coal-fired power plants. Revenue is therefore primarily generated through vertical and horizontal drilling, hydraulic fracturing, production and clean-up activity, as well as other complementary services including closed loop collection systems and the sale of recovered products. In 2015 , approximately 1% &#32;of our revenue was derived from energy services. Energy services activity varies across market areas that are tied to the natural resource basins in which the drilling activity occurs and reflects the regulatory environment, pricing and disposal alternatives available in any given market. 

Other Services 

Other revenue consists primarily of National Accounts revenue generated from nationwide contracts in markets outside our operating areas where the associated waste handling services are subcontracted to local operators. Consequently, substantially all of this revenue is offset with related subcontract costs, which are recorded in cost of operations. 

Competition 

We operate in a competitive industry. Competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from a few other large, national publicly owned companies, several regional publicly and privately owned companies, and thousands of small privately-owned companies. In any given market, competitors may have larger operations and greater resources. In addition, we compete with municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal operations. These municipalities may have financial advantages due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing. 

We compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the quality of our services. From time-to-time, our competitors reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal contract. Our ability to maintain and increase prices in certain markets may be impacted by our competitors&#8217; pricing policies. This may have an impact on our future revenue and profitability. 

Seasonality and Severe Weather 

Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in the summer months, primarily due to higher volumes of construction and demolition waste. The volumes of large-container industrial and residential waste in certain regions of the country also tend to increase during the summer months. Our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect this seasonality. 

Our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement or severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and other facilities. Our operations also can be favorably affected by severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste in situations where we are able to charge for our additional services. 

Regulation 

Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements that regulate, among other things, the environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use. Operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals generally are required for landfills and transfer stations, certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other facilities that we own or operate. These permits are subject to denial, revocation, modification and renewal in certain circumstances. Federal, state and local laws and regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or storm water discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the release or threatened release of hazardous substances. These laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the event of violations, including criminal penalties. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and various other federal, state and local authorities administer these regulations. 

We strive to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and permits. However, from time to time we have been issued citations or notices from governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various landfills and other facilities or in the need to expend funds for fines, penalties or settlements. We cannot assure you that citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite our strong regulatory compliance efforts. We have established final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation reserves that we believe, based on currently available information, will be adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs; however, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed our reserves. 

Federal Regulation 

The following summarizes the primary federal environmental and occupational health and safety-related statutes that affect our facilities and operations: 

&#8226; 

&#160; The Solid Waste Disposal Act, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act &#32;(RCRA). RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste, and requires states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills. 

Subtitle D of RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the disposal of municipal solid waste. Regulations under Subtitle D currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions, facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards, groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action standards. All of the states in which we operate have implemented permit programs pursuant to RCRA and Subtitle D. These state permit programs may include landfill requirements that are more stringent than those of Subtitle D. Our failure to comply with any of these environmental requirements at any of our locations may lead to temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit, which would result in costs in connection with securing new permits and reduced revenue from lost operational time. 

All of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed Subtitle D requirements. Operating and design criteria for existing operations have been modified to comply with these regulations. Compliance with Subtitle D regulations has resulted in increased costs and may in the future require substantial additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally associated with our waste management activities. 

&#8226; 

The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 &#32;(CERCLA). CERCLA, among other things, provides for the cleanup of sites from which there is a release or threatened release of a hazardous substance into the environment. CERCLA may impose strict joint and several liability for the costs of cleanup and for 

damages to natural resources upon current owners and operators of a site, parties who were owners or operators of a site at the time the hazardous substances were disposed of, parties who transported the hazardous substances to a site, and parties who arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at a site. Under the authority of CERCLA and its implementing regulations, detailed requirements apply to the manner and degree of investigation and remediation of facilities and sites where hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment. Liability under CERCLA is not dependent on the existence or disposal of only &#8220;hazardous wastes,&#8221; but also can be based upon the existence of small quantities of more than 700 &#8220;substances&#8221; characterized by the EPA as &#8220;hazardous,&#8221; many of which are found in common household waste. Among other things, CERCLA authorizes the federal government to investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment, or to order persons potentially liable for the cleanup of the hazardous substances to do so themselves. In addition, the EPA has established a National Priorities List of sites at which hazardous substances have been, or are threatened to be, released and which require investigation or cleanup. 

CERCLA liability is strict liability. It can be founded upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of hazardous substances, including very small quantities of such substances. Thus, even if we have never knowingly transported or received hazardous substances, it is likely that hazardous substances have been deposited or &#8220;released&#8221; at landfills or other facilities that we presently or historically have owned or operated, or at properties owned by third parties to which we have transported waste. Therefore, we could be liable under CERCLA for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous substances at such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if those substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them. The costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be very expensive and can include the costs of disposing of hazardous substances at appropriately-licensed facilities. Given the difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment liability, any such liability could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

&#8226; 

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 &#32;(the Clean Water Act). This act regulates the discharge of pollutants from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters of the United States. Runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is discharged into surface waters through discrete conveyances must be covered by discharge permits that generally require us to conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, to reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. Storm water discharge regulations under the Clean Water Act require a permit for certain construction activities and for runoff from industrial operations and facilities, which may affect our operations. If a landfill or transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by that treatment works. In addition, states may adopt groundwater protection programs under the Clean Water Act or the Safe Drinking Water Act that could affect the manner in which our landfills monitor and control their waste management activities. Furthermore, if development at any of our facilities alters or affects wetlands, we may be required to secure permits before such development starts. In these situations, permitting agencies may require mitigation of wetland impacts. 

&#8226; 

The Clean Air Act. &#160; The Clean Air Act imposes limitations on emissions from various sources, including landfills. In March 1996, the EPA promulgated regulations that require large municipal solid waste landfills to install landfill gas monitoring systems. These regulations apply to landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after May 30, 1991, and, principally, to landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste. The regulations apply whether the landfills are active or closed. The date by which each affected landfill must have a gas collection and control system installed and made operational varies depending on calculated emission rates at the landfill. On August 14, 2015, the EPA issued proposed amendments to its regulations that would require large landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification on or after July 17, 2014 to capture additional landfill gas to reduce emissions of methane and certain non-methane gases, which are recognized as greenhouse gases. In a separate action commenced that same day, the EPA proposed updates to its 1996 Emission Guidelines to reduce emissions of landfill gas from existing active landfills. Both actions are part of the Obama Administration's Climate Action Plan - Strategy to Reduce Methane Emissions. These and other efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effect of climate change may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital or operating costs. Many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas. Certain of these state agencies are also implementing greenhouse gas control regulations that would also apply to landfill gas emissions. See Item 1A, Risk Factors &#32;&#8211; &#8220; Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate ,&#8221; in this Form 10-K. 

In addition, our vehicle fleet also may become subject to higher efficiency standards or other carbon-emission restrictions. Over the past two years, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) have adopted regulations mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions as a means of reducing greenhouse gas 

emissions. The regulations take the form of fuel economy standards. The EPA and the NHTSA have developed fuel economy standards in two vehicle categories: (1) conventional automobiles and light-duty trucks; and (2) heavy-duty trucks, including solid waste collection vehicles and tractor trailers. We own and operate vehicles in both categories. For conventional automobiles and light-duty trucks, in May 2010 the EPA and the NHTSA finalized fuel economy standards for model years 2012 through 2016. In October 2011, the EPA and the NHTSA initiated a second round of rulemaking for conventional automobiles and pick-up trucks in model years 2017 through 2025. In August 2011, the EPA and the NHTSA finalized standards for heavy-duty trucks, including solid waste collection vehicles and tractor trailers, for model years 2014 through 2018. On June 19, 2015, EPA and NHTSA proposed additional regulations that would impose more stringent standards for heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2027. In issuing the proposed fuel economy standards for heavy-duty trucks and tractor trailers, the government estimated that the increased equipment cost would be recouped over a period of two years for a tractor/trailer combo, and over a period of 6 years for a garbage truck, and each vehicle would continue to save fuel costs over its operating life. 

&#8226; 

The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 &#32;(OSHA). This act authorizes the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor to promulgate occupational safety and health standards. A number of these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations. 

State and Local Regulation 

Each state in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. States also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. Some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. In addition, our operations may be affected by the trend in many states toward requiring solid waste reduction and recycling programs. For example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills. Additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including yard waste, newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries, electronic wastes and household appliances, have been adopted in several states and are being considered in others. Legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also have been considered, or are under consideration by, the U.S. Congress and the EPA. 

To construct, operate and expand a landfill, we must obtain one or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and land use approvals. These permits and approvals may be burdensome to obtain and to comply with, are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens&#8217; groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to denial, modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. Significant compliance disclosure obligations often accompany these processes. In connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, we may be required to spend considerable time, effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity. 

Other Regulations 

Many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks that are generally used to store petroleum-based products. These tanks are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal. In the event of leaks or releases from these tanks, these regulations require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. We believe that all of our underground storage tanks meet all applicable regulations. If underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, we could be liable for response costs and, if the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for damages to third parties. We are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

With regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board and are regulated by the Federal Highway Administration, Office of Motor Carriers, and by regulatory agencies in states that regulate such matters. Various state and local government authorities have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws and regulations that would restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county, or other jurisdictional lines. In 1978, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a law that restricts the importation of out-of-state solid waste is unconstitutional; however, states have attempted to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. In 1994, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from leaving its place of generation, imposes an impermissible burden upon interstate commerce and is unconstitutional. In 2007, however, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the right of a local government to direct the flow of solid waste to a publicly-owned and publicly-operated waste facility. A 

number of county and other local jurisdictions have enacted ordinances or other regulations restricting the free movement of solid waste across jurisdictional boundaries. Other governments may enact similar regulations in the future. These regulations may cause a decline in volumes of waste delivered to our landfills or transfer stations and may increase our costs of disposal, thereby adversely affecting our operations and our financial results. 

Liabilities Established for Landfill and Environmental Costs 

We have established reserves for landfill and environmental costs, which include landfill site final capping, closure and post-closure costs. We periodically reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of Subtitle D of RCRA, and we adjust our rates used to expense final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our recorded reserves for such landfill and environmental expenditures are adequate; however, environmental laws may change, and we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. Refer to the "Contractual Obligations" &#32;section of our Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#32;contained in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information. 

Liability Insurance and Bonding 

The nature of our business exposes us to the possible risk of liabilities arising out of our operations, including damages to the environment, property, employees or the general public. Although we focus on operating safely and prudently, we occasionally receive claims, alleging damages, negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning or performance of work, which resulted in harm to the environment, property, employees or the general public. These liabilities can be significant. We also could be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. We maintain various policies of insurance that, subject to limitations, exclusions, or deductibles, provide coverage for these types of claims. While we believe the amount of insurance is appropriate for our type of business, we can neither assure you that such insurance would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major loss, nor that we will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We also cannot assure you that we would continue to maintain the insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage cost prohibitive. 

Accruals for deductibles are based on claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not reported. Due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased deductible retention levels and increased premiums or unavailability of insurance. As we assume more risk through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our insurance reserves and expense. 

In the normal course of business, we also purchase surety bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit or marketable securities deposits in connection with municipal residential collection contracts, financial assurance for closure and post-closure of landfills, environmental remediation, environmental permits, and business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our performance. 

Availability of Reports and Other Information 

Our corporate website is www.republicservices.com . We make available on that website, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, and amendments to those materials filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We make such materials available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit them to the SEC. Our corporate website also contains our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics, Political Contributions Policy, and Charters of the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee of the board of directors. In addition, the SEC makes available at its website ( www.sec.gov ), free of charge, reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. Information on our website or the SEC website is not part of this Form 10-K. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K and applicable New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules regarding amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics by posting this information on our website at www.republicservices.com . 

