 Item 1. Business. 

We have acquired a diversified portfolio of commercial properties comprised primarily of freestanding single-tenant properties that are net leased to investment grade and other creditworthy tenants. On April 15, 2015, upon recommendation by our Advisor and approval by our board of directors, we adopted new Investment Objectives and Acquisition and Investment Policies (the "New Strategy"). Under the New Strategy, we manage and optimize our investments in our existing portfolio of net leased commercial real estate properties (the "Net Lease Portfolio") and selectively invest in additional net lease properties. In addition, we invest in commercial real estate mortgage loans and other commercial real estate-related debt investments (such investments collectively, "CRE Debt Investments"). We have financed our CRE Debt Investments primarily through mortgage financing secured by our Net Lease Portfolio, and we may use mortgage specific repurchase agreement facilities and collateralized debt obligations to finance future CRE Debt Investments.. 

Incorporated on January 22, 2013 , we are a Maryland corporation that elected and qualified to be taxed as a REIT beginning with the taxable year ended December 31, 2013. Substantially all of our business is conducted through American Finance Operating Partnership, L.P. (the "OP"), a Delaware limited partnership and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. 

On April 4, 2013, we commenced our initial public offering (the "IPO") on a "reasonable best efforts" basis of up to 68.0 million &#32;shares of common stock, $0.01 &#32;par value per share, at a price of $25.00 &#32;per share, subject to certain volume and other discounts. The IPO closed in October 2013. 

From November 14, 2014 &#32;(the "Initial NAV Pricing Date") until the suspension of the distribution reinvestment plan (the "DRIP"), the price per share for shares of common stock purchased under the DRIP was equal to the estimated net asset value ("NAV") per share of our common stock approved by our board of directors (" Estimated Per-Share NAV "). On November 19, 2014 , our board of directors approved an Estimated Per-Share NAV &#32;equal to $23.50 &#32;as of September 30, 2014, which was used in connection with the issuance of shares under the DRIP following the Initial NAV Pricing Date through May 18, 2015. On May 14, 2015, our board of directors approved an Estimated Per-Share NAV &#32;equal to $24.17 &#32;as of March 31, 2015, which was used in connection with the purchases of common stock under the DRIP following May 18, 2015 through the suspension of the DRIP, which became effective following the payment of our distribution on July 1, 2015. We intend to publish an Estimated Per-Share NAV &#32;as of December 31, 2015 &#32;shortly following the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

We previously announced our intention to list on the NYSE under the symbol "AFIN" (the "Listing") during the third quarter of 2015. In September 2015, we announced that in light of market conditions, our board of directors, in consultation with our Advisor, determined it was in our best interest to not pursue the Listing during the third quarter of 2015. Our board of directors continues to monitor market conditions and other factors with a view toward reevaluating the decision when market conditions are more favorable for a successful liquidity event. There can be no assurance that our shares of common stock will be listed. 

We have no direct employees. We have retained our Advisor to manage our affairs on a day-to-day basis. American Finance Properties, LLC (the "Property Manager") serves as our property manager. Our Advisor and the Property Manager are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Sponsor, as a result of which, they are related parties of ours, and each have received or will receive compensation, as applicable, fees and expense reimbursements for services related to managing our business. 

Realty Capital Securities, LLC (our " Former Dealer Manager ") served as the dealer manager of our IPO and, together with certain of its affiliates, continued to provide us with various services through December 31, 2015 . RCS Capital Corporation, the parent company of the Former Dealer Manager &#32;and certain of its affiliates that provided services to us, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January 2016, prior to which it was under common control with our Sponsor. 

Investment Objectives 

We implemented and intend to continue to implement our investment objectives as follows: 

&#8226; 

CRE Debt Investments &#32;&#8212; Originate and acquire CRE Debt Investments; 

&#8226; 

Freestanding, Single-Tenant Properties &#32;&#8212; Buy primarily freestanding single-tenant properties net leased to investment grade and other creditworthy tenants; however, we will not forgo opportunities to invest in other types of real estate investments that meet our overall investment objectives; 

&#8226; 

Long-Term Leases &#32;&#8212; Enter into long-term leases with minimum, non-cancelable lease terms of ten or more years; 

&#8226; 

Low Leverage &#32;&#8212; Finance our portfolio opportunistically (taking advantage of opportunities as they arise) at a target leverage level of not more than 45% loan-to-value. Loan to value ratio is a lending risk assessment ratio that is examined before approving a mortgage and is calculated by dividing the mortgage amount by the appraised value of the property (calculated after the close of our IPO and once we have invested substantially all the proceeds of our IPO); 

&#8226; 

Diversified Portfolio &#32;&#8212; Assemble, manage and optimize a well diversified portfolio based on geography, tenant diversity, lease expirations, and other factors; 

&#8226; 

Monthly Distributions &#32;&#8212; Pay distributions monthly, covered by funds from operations; 

&#8226; 

Exit Strategy &#32;&#8212; We expect to sell our assets, sell or merge our Company or list our Company within three to six years after the end of our IPO. We previously announced our intent to list our common stock on the NYSE during the third quarter of 2015. We subsequently announced that it was in our best interest not to list during the third quarter of 2015 and that our board of directors will continue to reevaluate the decision when market conditions are more favorable for a successful liquidity event; and 

&#8226; 

Maximize Total Returns &#32;&#8212; Maximize total returns to our stockholders through a combination of current income and realized appreciation (an increase in the value of an asset that is recognized upon the sale of such asset). 

Acquisition and Investment Policies 

Real Estate Investment Focus &#32; 

We have built a diversified portfolio comprised primarily of freestanding single-tenant bank branch, convenience store, retail, office and industrial properties that are double-net and triple-net leased on long-term basis to investment grade and other creditworthy tenants. 

Our investment objectives are (a) to provide current income for investors through the payment of cash distributions and (b) to preserve and return investors' capital and to maximize risk-adjusted returns. Unlike funds that invest solely in multi-tenant properties, or in properties that are predominantly occupied by non-investment grade tenants and subject to short-term leases, we have acquired a diversified portfolio comprised primarily of investment grade and creditworthy single-tenant properties, most of which are originally net leased for periods of 10 to 25 years. From time-to-time, we have acquired, and may in the future acquire, properties with shorter remaining lease terms if the property is in an attractive location, if the property is difficult to replace, or if the property has other significant favorable attributes. As of December 31, 2015 , all of our acquisitions have been in the United States and we do not expect to make investments outside of the United States. 

There is no limitation on the number, size or type of properties that we may acquire. The number and mix of properties depend upon real estate market conditions and other circumstances existing at the time of acquisition of properties. 

Investing in Real Property 

We have invested, and may to continue to invest, primarily in freestanding, single-tenant retail properties net leased to investment grade and other creditworthy tenants. When evaluating prospective investments in real property, our management and our Advisor consider relevant real estate and financial factors, including the location of the property, the leases and other agreements affecting the property, the creditworthiness of major tenants, its income-producing capacity, its physical condition, its prospects for appreciation, its prospects for liquidity, tax considerations and other factors. In this regard, our Advisor has substantial discretion with respect to the selection of specific investments, subject to board approval. 

The following table lists the tenants (including, for this purpose, all affiliates of such tenants) from which we derive annualized rental income on a straight-line basis constituting 10.0% or more of our consolidated annualized rental income on a straight-line basis for all portfolio properties as of the dates indicated: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

December 31, 

Tenant 

&#160; 

&#160; 

SunTrust Bank 

&#160; 

17.9% 

&#160; 

17.9% 

Sanofi US 

&#160; 

11.6% 

&#160; 

11.6% 

C&#38;S Wholesale Grocer 

&#160; 

10.4% 

&#160; 

10.4% 

Investing in Real Estate Securities 

We may invest in securities of non-majority owned publicly traded and private companies primarily engaged in real estate businesses, including REITs and other real estate operating companies, and securities issued by pass-through entities of which substantially all the assets consist of REIT qualifying assets or real estate-related assets. We may purchase the common stock, preferred stock, debt, or other securities of these entities or options to acquire such securities. It is our intention that we be limited to investing no more than 20% of the aggregate value of our assets in publicly traded real estate equity or debt securities, including, but not limited to, commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS"). However, any investment in equity securities (including any preferred equity securities) that are not traded on a national securities exchange or included for quotation on an inter-dealer quotation system, other than equity securities of a REIT or other real estate operating company, must be approved by a majority of directors, including a majority of independent directors, not otherwise interested in the transaction as fair, competitive and commercially reasonable. 

Acquisition Structure 

To date, we have acquired fee interests (a "fee interest" is the absolute, legal possession and ownership of land, property, or rights) and leasehold interests (a "leasehold interest" is a right to enjoy the exclusive possession and use of an asset or property for a stated definite period as created by a written lease) in properties. We anticipate continuing to do so if we acquire properties in the future, although other methods of acquiring a property may be utilized if we deem it to be advantageous. For example, we may acquire properties through a joint venture or the acquisition of substantially all of the interests of an entity which in turn owns the real property. 

International Investments 

We do not intend to invest in real estate outside of the United States or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or make other real estate investments related to assets located outside of the United States. 

Development and Construction of Properties 

We do not intend to acquire undeveloped land, develop new properties, or substantially redevelop existing properties. 

Joint Ventures 

We may enter into joint ventures, partnerships and other co-ownership arrangements (including preferred equity investments) for the purpose of making investments. Some of the potential reasons to enter into a joint venture would be to acquire assets we could not otherwise acquire, to reduce our capital commitment to a particular asset, or to benefit from certain expertise that a partner might have. 

Our general policy is to invest in joint ventures only when we will have a right of first refusal to purchase the co-venturer's interest in the joint venture if the co-venturer elects to sell such interest. If the co-venturer elects to sell property held in any such joint venture, however, we may not have sufficient funds to exercise our right of first refusal to buy the other co-venturer's interest in the property held by the joint venture. If any joint venture with an affiliated entity holds interests in more than one property, the interest in each such property may be specifically allocated based upon the respective proportion of funds invested by each co-venturer in each such property. 

CRE Debt Investments 

Market Opportunity 

Our Advisor believes that CRE Debt Investments present an attractive investment opportunity given trends such as increased commercial real estate transaction volume in recent years, high levels of maturing commercial mortgage debt, increased bank capital requirements and the imposition of restrictions on commercial mortgage securitizations. 

Business Strategy 

Portfolio 

Our Advisor believes that our ability to secure financing collateralized by our Net Lease Portfolio provides us with a cost advantage relative to other non-bank lenders operating in the same market. Further, our Advisor believes that our Net Lease Portfolio is complementary to our portfolio of CRE Debt Investments, given the potentially advantageous tax effects arising from depreciation of our Net Lease Portfolio. 

Origination 

We have purchased CRE Debt Investments, and have originated such CRE Debt Investments through our Sponsor's established presence in the market and extensive relationships with financial institutions, mortgage bankers and direct lenders. 

Target Investments 

We are focused on originating and acquiring first mortgage and mezzanine loans across all major commercial real estate sectors. Our Advisor evaluates all potential CRE Debt Investments to determine if the term, security, cash flows and other metrics meet our investment criteria and objectives. We may selectively syndicate portions of these loans, including senior or junior participations, which effectively provides permanent financing or optimized returns. 

First Mortgage Loans 

We lend to experienced operators that are buying, recapitalizing or repositioning properties, with minimum owner's equity of 15% to 40%. In addition, we may seek personal or corporate guarantees for additional security. We have originated first mortgage loans with terms of two to five years. First mortgage loans may also feature equity "kicker" participations. 

First mortgage loans generally feature a lower default rate than other types of debt, due to favorable control features often included in such loans, which may effectively provide a lender with control of the entire capital structure. In addition, the first lien security interest in the underlying property often allows for recovery even in the event of a bankruptcy by the borrower. The relative security, compared to unsecured loans, makes first mortgage loans more liquid than unsecured loans. However, these loans typically generate lower returns than unsecured debt and subordinate debt such as subordinate loans and mezzanine loans. 

Credit Loans 

We may invest in credit loans alongside first mortgage lenders. These loans include B-notes, which are subordinated interests in first mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, secured by ownership interests in the borrowing entity and preferred equity positions, which provide for a preferred return, with a liquidation preference in the borrowing entity. We may lend between 50% and 85% of the property value, at fixed or floating interest rates between 7% and 13%, with loan terms between two and ten years. 

Investment Process 

At the origination stage, our Advisor's management team reviews all aspects of properties underlying potential CRE Debt Investments, including rent rolls, financial statements, budget, sponsor and operator experience and market data. In the underwriting stage, our Advisor evaluates third party reports including engineering, environmental and title reports and appraisals. Our Advisor undertakes site visits as necessary, and reviews sponsor/borrower credit information. The results of this review are presented to the investment committee. The unanimous agreement of the investment committee is required for all investments. Approval by the independent directors is required, in accordance with our investment guidelines. 

Financing Strategies and Policies 

We may obtain financing for acquisitions and investments at the time an asset is acquired or an investment is made, or at a later time. In addition, debt financing may be used from time to time for property improvements, tenant improvements, leasing commissions and other working capital needs. The form of our indebtedness for future financings will vary and could be long-term or short-term, secured or unsecured, or fixed-rate or floating rate. We will not enter into interest rate swaps or caps, or similar hedging transactions or derivative arrangements for speculative purposes but may do so in order to manage or mitigate our interest rate risks on variable rate debt. We expect to be able to secure various forms of fixed- and floating-rate debt financing, including mortgage financing secured by our Net Lease Portfolio, collateralized loan obligation issuances, bank financing and repo facilities. 

We will not borrow from our Advisor or its affiliates unless a majority of our directors, including a majority of our independent directors, not otherwise interested in the transaction approves the transaction as being fair, competitive and commercially reasonable and no less favorable to us than comparable loans between unaffiliated parties. 

We may reevaluate and change our financing policies without a stockholder vote. Factors that we would consider when reevaluating or changing our debt policy include: then-current economic conditions, the relative cost and availability of debt and equity capital, our expected investment opportunities, the ability of our investments to generate sufficient cash flow to cover debt service requirements and other similar factors. 

Tax Status 

We qualified to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2013. We believe that, commencing with such taxable year, we have been organized and operated in a manner so that we qualify for taxation as a REIT under the Code. We intend to continue to operate in such a manner, but no assurance can be given that we will operate in a manner so as to remain qualified as a REIT. In order to continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP")), determined without regard for the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, and must comply with a number of other organizational and operational requirements. If we continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal corporate income tax on that portion of our REIT taxable income that we distribute to our stockholders. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain state and local taxes on our income and properties, and federal income and excise taxes on our undistributed income. 

Competition 

The net leased property market is highly competitive. We compete in the net leased property market with other owners and operators of net leased properties. The continued development of new net lease properties has intensified the competition among owners and operators of these types of real estate in many market areas in which we intend to operate. We compete based on a number of factors that include location, rental rates, security, suitability of the property's design to prospective tenants' needs and the manner in which the property is operated and marketed. The number of competing properties in a particular market could have a material effect on our occupancy levels, rental rates and on the operating expenses of certain of our properties. 

The market for acquisition and origination of CRE Debt Investments is highly competitive. Current market conditions may attract more competitors, which may increase the competition for sources of investment and financing. An increase in the competition for sources of funding could adversely affect the availability and cost of financing, and thereby adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 

In addition, we compete with other entities engaged in real estate investment activities to locate suitable properties to acquire and to locate tenants and purchasers for our properties. These competitors include other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, lenders, governmental bodies and other entities. There are also other REITs with asset acquisition objectives similar to ours and others may be organized in the future. Some of these competitors, including larger REITs, have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we have and generally may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage, including risks with respect to the creditworthiness of tenants. In addition, these same entities and our Company seek financing through similar channels. Therefore, we compete for financing in a market where funds for real estate investment may decrease. 

Competition from these and other third party real estate investors may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us. It also may result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms. 

Regulations 

Our investments are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations, including, among other things, zoning regulations, land use controls, environmental controls relating to air and water quality, noise pollution and indirect environmental impacts such as increased motor vehicle activity. We believe that we have all permits and approvals necessary under current law to operate our investments. 

Environmental 

As an owner of real estate, we are subject to various environmental laws of federal, state and local governments. Compliance with existing laws has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and management does not believe it will have such an impact in the future. However, we cannot predict the impact of unforeseen environmental contingencies or new or changed laws or regulations on properties in which we hold an interest, or on properties that may be acquired directly or indirectly in the future. We hire third parties to conduct Phase I environmental reviews of the real property that we intend to purchase. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had no direct employees. The employees of the Advisor and other entities under common control with our Sponsor perform a full range of real estate services for us, including acquisitions, property management, accounting, legal, asset management, wholesale brokerage, transfer agent and investor relations services. 

We are dependent on these companies for services that are essential to us, including asset acquisition decisions, property management and other general administrative responsibilities. In the event that any of these companies were unable to provide these services to us, we would be required to provide such services ourselves or obtain such services from other sources. 

Financial Information About Industry Segments 

Our current business consists of owning, managing, operating, leasing, acquiring, investing in and disposing of real estate assets. Substantially all of our consolidated revenues are from our consolidated real estate properties. We internally evaluate operating performance on an individual property level and view all of our real estate assets as one industry segment, and, accordingly, all of our properties are aggregated into one reportable segment. Our CRE Debt Investments, in aggregate, do not meet any of the consolidated quantitative thresholds that would require us to present their information separately, and thus we do not consider our CRE Debt Investments to be a reportable segment. 

Available Information 

We electronically file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and proxy statements, with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or you may obtain information by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet address at www.sec.gov &#32;that contains reports, proxy statements and information statements, and other information, which you may obtain free of charge. In addition, copies of our filings with the SEC may be obtained at www.arct-5.com . Access to these filings is free of charge. We are not incorporating our website or any information from the website into this Form 10-K. 

