 Item 1. 

Business 

General 

Rayonier Advanced Materials Inc., with approximately 469,000 metric tons of cellulose specialties sales in 2015, nearly double the sales of the next largest competitor, is the global leader in the production of cellulose specialties. Cellulose specialties are natural polymers, used as raw materials to manufacture a broad range of consumer-oriented products such as cigarette filters, liquid crystal displays, impact-resistant plastics, thickeners for food products, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, high-tenacity rayon yarn for tires and industrial hoses, food casings, paints and lacquers. We manufacture products tailored to the precise and demanding chemical and physical specifications required by our customers, achieving industry leading purity and product functionality. Our ability to consistently manufacture high-quality cellulose specialties products is the result of our proprietary production processes, intellectual property, technical expertise and knowledge of cellulosic chemistry. 

Additionally, a significant portion of our production capacity is dedicated to manufacturing commodity products for viscose and absorbent materials applications. In 2015 , we sold approximately 247,000 metric tons of commodity products. Commodity viscose is a raw material required for the manufacture of viscose staple fibers which are used in woven applications such as textiles for clothing and other fabrics, and in non-woven applications such as baby wipes, cosmetic and personal wipes, industrial wipes and mattress ticking. Absorbent materials, typically referred to as fluff fibers, are used as an absorbent medium in products such as disposable baby diapers, feminine hygiene products, incontinence pads, convalescent bed pads, industrial towels and wipes and non-woven fabrics. Cellulose specialties typically contain over 95 percent cellulose, while commodity products typically contain less than 95 percent cellulose. 

Prior to June 27, 2014, the Company consisted of Rayonier Inc.&#8217;s (&#8220;Rayonier&#8221;) wholly-owned performance fibers segment and an allocable portion of Rayonier&#8217;s corporate costs (together, &#8220;Rayonier&#8217;s performance fibers business&#8221; or the &#8220;performance fibers business&#8221;). On that date, holders of Rayonier common shares received one share of the Company&#8217;s common stock for every three Rayonier common shares held on the record date. This resulted in the separation of the Company from Rayonier (the &#8220;Separation&#8221;). The Separation was structured to be tax free to Rayonier shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes and the Company operates as an independent, publicly traded company. 

Segments 

The Company operates as a single segment business with two major product lines: cellulose specialties and commodity products. See Note 3 &#32;&#8212; Segment and Geographical Information &#32;for more information. 

Industry 

Cellulose Specialties 

Cellulose specialties are an organic material primarily derived from either wood or cotton and are used as a raw material to manufacture a broad range of products. Cellulose specialties generally command a price premium and earn higher margins through the economic cycle relative to commodity products. Typically, product pricing is set annually in the fourth quarter for the following year based on discussions with customers and the terms of contractual arrangements. The manufacture and sale of cellulose specialties products are the primary driver of the Company&#8217;s profitability. 

Our cellulose specialties, derived from wood, require high levels of purity, consistency and process knowledge. Our products play a significant role in our customers&#8217; (primarily specialty chemical companies) manufacturing processes, which require cellulose specialties of high purity and uniformity for efficient production. Therefore, our customers demand we consistently deliver products of the highest quality. As a result, our products are custom engineered and manufactured to customers&#8217; specifications and require a stringent qualification process as our quality and consistency allow our customers to operate more efficiently and cost effectively. 

Our key competitive advantage is our unique ability to utilize our flexible manufacturing facilities to engineer cellulose specialties fibers to customers&#8217; specifications. We are the only cellulose specialties producer with manufacturing facilities that provide flexibility to use both hardwood and softwood, kraft and sulfite cooking processes, as well as a variety of proprietary chemical treatments to provide customized product functionality. Additionally, we have a significant amount of process knowledge: the understanding of wood fiber properties and their modification under a sequence of chemical processes, accumulated and developed over 85 years of practical application to achieve unique properties for a variety of customer needs. Combining this process knowledge with our manufacturing flexibility and knowledge of customers&#8217; applications and specifications, allows us to have the most extensive capability set to modify cellulose fibers in the industry. 

Commodity Products 

We have the ability to easily shift our production between commodity viscose and absorbent materials to take advantage of market conditions and generate the most attractive margins. 

Commodity viscose is primarily sold to producers of viscose staple fibers. Shifts in fashion styles and textile fiber blending have increased demand for viscose staple fibers. Additionally, variability in cotton linter supply, competing uses of cotton seeds in agriculture and increasing environmental concerns about cotton production have resulted in viscose staple producers shifting volume to commodity viscose derived from wood. 

Absorbent materials, or fluff fibers, are typically used in consumer products. These fibers provide a medium for fluid acquisition, distribution and retention in the products in which they are incorporated. Pricing for commodity products is typically referenced to published indexes or based on publicly available spot market prices. 

Competition 

Cellulose Specialties 

Potential entrants to the cellulose specialties business face considerable challenges. Significant intellectual property, capital investment, technical expertise and experience are needed to design and manufacture customized cellulose specialties fibers to exacting customer specifications. Extensive research and development capabilities are required to formulate the product to achieve the desired characteristics including parameters for purity, viscosity, brightness, reactivity and other physical properties. Product qualification time is often lengthy, extending six to twelve months. Resulting customer relationships are typically long-term, based on a deep understanding of our customers&#8217; production processes and technical expertise which we utilize to solve customers&#8217; production issues and support new product development. Further, establishing a production line and obtaining the necessary production technologies requires a substantial initial investment and significant annual capital and ongoing maintenance expenditures. 

Product performance, technical service and price are principal methods of competition in cellulose specialties. Product performance is primarily determined by the purity and uniformity of the cellulose specialties. Our intellectual property, technical expertise and experience provide the basis by which we are able to uniformly produce high-value cellulose specialties. Additionally, 

we are able to produce the greatest breadth of high-value, uniform cellulose specialties through our diverse proprietary manufacturing processes. 

We compete with both domestic and foreign producers in cellulose specialties. Principal competitors include Georgia Pacific&#8217;s Buckeye Technologies, Borregaard, Bracell and Tembec. We also compete against Neucel Specialty Cellulose, Sappi, Nippon, Domsj&#246;, Cosmo Specialty Fibers and Aditya Birla Group in limited applications. Some competitors use both wood, and to a smaller extent cotton linter fibers, as a source of cellulose fibers. Although cotton linter fibers can be a higher purity source of cellulose, the variability of their fiber structure and fluctuation in availability can negatively impact their ability to be a reliable substitute product in some applications. 

Commodity Products 

The principal method of competition in commodity products is price, as purity and uniformity are less critical differentiators. We compete with both domestic and foreign producers of commodity products. 

For commodity viscose, there are many competitors that derive their commodity viscose from either wood or cotton. Although cellulose specialties can generally be sold to meet commodity viscose demand, the reverse is not typically true. 

For absorbent materials, major competitors include Weyerhaeuser, GP Cellulose, Domtar and International Paper. 

Raw Materials and Energy 

Our manufacturing processes require significant amounts of wood to produce cellulose specialties and commodity products. We consume approximately 1.5 million &#32;short green tons of hardwood chips and 2.5 million &#32;short green tons of softwood chips per year. 

Our manufacturing processes also require significant amounts of chemicals, including caustic soda (sodium hydroxide), sulfuric acid, sodium chlorate and various specialty chemicals. These chemicals are purchased under negotiated supply agreements with third parties. 

Currently, the majority of our energy is produced through the burning of lignin and other residual biomass in recovery and power boilers located at our plants. The plants still require fuel oil, natural gas and purchased electricity to supplement their energy requirements. 

Raw materials and energy are subject to significant changes in prices and availability. Weather conditions and demand in the wood products and pulp and paper markets can affect the cost of wood. We continually pursue reductions in usage and costs of key raw materials, supplies and services and do not foresee any material constraints in the near term from pricing or availability. 

Manufacturing Processes 

Our production facilities are located in Jesup, Georgia and Fernandina Beach, Florida. 

The Jesup plant can produce cellulose specialties or commodity products using both hardwood and softwood in a pre-hydrolyzed kraft, or high pH, cooking process. The Fernandina Beach plant can produce cellulose specialties or commodity products using softwood in a sulfite, or low pH, cooking process. These different cooking processes are used with various types of wood cellulose and combined with proprietary bleaching sequences and a cold caustic extraction process to manufacture more than 25 different grades of cellulose specialties. 

The general process of extracting and purifying cellulose from wood at our Jesup and Fernandina plants is as follows: 

Wood Chips &#32; &#32;Logs are purchased, debarked and chipped into uniform dimensions to improve the chips&#8217; reaction to chemicals during the cooking process. Various hardwood and softwood species, as well as different areas of the log, are used to produce the many grades of purified cellulose specialties. To manufacture approximately one metric ton of cellulose specialties, we use approximately six short green tons of wood. 

Cooking and Washing &#32; &#32;The chips are loaded into pressure vessels with various chemicals and heated to separate lignin, the natural component that binds the cellulose fibers together, and other impurities from the cellulose. After the cooking process is complete, the lignin and chemicals are separated from the cellulose in a washing process. The lignin is generally recovered and burned for energy, and the chemicals are recovered and reused in the production process. 

Bleaching &#32;&#32; The cellulose separated in the washing process is bleached with various chemicals to impart the required brightness and increase the purity and uniformity of the cellulose. Some cellulose specialties require processing through a cold caustic 

extraction (&#8220;CCE&#8221;) stage, in order to increase the purity and uniformity of the cellulose to our customer specifications. Our CCE process, which is a key element of our intellectual property, generates cellulose specialties purity levels in excess of 98 percent. 

Machining, Drying and Packaging &#32;&#32;Following the bleaching stage, the purified cellulose is dried per customer specifications into large rolls. These large rolls are cut, according to customer requirements, into sheets or smaller rolls then packaged and shipped. Our products are transported in the United States by railroad or trucks, and internationally by ship. 

Intellectual Property 

We own numerous patents, trademarks and trade secrets, and have developed significant know-how, relating to the production of purified cellulose, which we deem important to our operations. We intend to protect our intellectual property, including, when appropriate, filing patent applications for inventions that are deemed important to our operations. Our U.S. patents generally have a duration of 20 years from the date of filing. We also require key employees to enter into non-compete agreements as appropriate. 

Seasonality 

Our results are not normally affected by seasonal changes. 

Customers 

See Note 3 &#32;&#8212; Segment and Geographical Information &#32;for information on our major customers. 

Research and Development 

The quality and consistency of our cellulose specialties and research and development capabilities create a significant competitive advantage, and is an important factor in our ability to achieve a premium price for our products. Our research and development efforts are primarily directed at further developing products and technologies, improving the quality of cellulose fiber grades, improving manufacturing efficiency and environmental controls and reducing fossil fuel consumption. We have also recently reinvigorated our research and development activities to develop and market new products and applications with a goal of deriving 20 percent of revenues from new products in the next decade. 

We spent $3 million &#32;on research and development for each of the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 . 

Environmental Matters 

Our manufacturing operations are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental regulations. For a more detailed discussion, see Item 1A &#8212; Risk Factors , Item 3 &#8212; Legal Proceedings , Item 7 &#8212; Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8212; Environmental Regulation , Note 13 &#32;&#8212; Liabilities for Disposed Operations &#32;and &#32; Note 16 &#32;&#8212; Contingencies . 

Employee Relations 

We currently employ approximately 1,200 people, nearly all of whom are in the United States. Approximately 825 of our hourly employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The majority of our hourly employees are represented by labor unions. Collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 225 hourly employees at our Fernandina plant and approximately 600 hourly employees at our Jesup plant, respectively, expire on April 30, 2019 and June 30, 2017. We believe relations with our employees are satisfactory. 

Availability of Reports and Other Information 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available to the public free of charge in the Investor Relations section of our website www.rayonieram.com, shortly after we electronically file such material with, or furnish them to, the SEC. Our corporate governance guidelines and charters of all committees of our board of directors are also available on our website. 

