 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

Sabre Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed in December 2006. On March 30, 2007, Sabre Corporation acquired Sabre Holdings Corporation (&#8220;Sabre Holdings&#8221;), which is the sole subsidiary of Sabre Corporation. Sabre GLBL Inc. (&#8220;Sabre GLBL&#8221;) is the principal operating subsidiary and sole direct subsidiary of Sabre Holdings. Sabre GLBL or its direct or indirect subsidiaries conduct all of our businesses. Our principal executive offices are located at 3150 Sabre Drive, Southlake, Texas 76092. 

We are a leading technology solutions provider to the global travel and tourism industry. We span the breadth of the global travel ecosystem, providing key software and services to a broad range of travel suppliers and travel buyers. We connect the world&#8217;s leading travel suppliers, including airlines, hotels, car rental brands, rail carriers, cruise lines and tour operators, with travel buyers in a comprehensive travel marketplace. We also offer travel suppliers an extensive suite of leading software solutions, ranging from airline and hotel reservations systems to high-value marketing and operations solutions, such as planning airline crew schedules, re-accommodating passengers during irregular flight operations and managing day-to-day hotel operations. These solutions allow our customers to market, distribute and sell their products more efficiently, manage their core operations, and deliver enhanced travel experiences. 

Business Segments 

We operate through two business segments: Travel Network and Airline and Hospitality Solutions. Financial information about our business segments and geographic areas is provided in Note 17, Segment Information, to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Travel Network 

Travel Network is our global business-to-business travel marketplace and consists primarily of our global distribution system (&#8220;GDS&#8221;) and a broad set of solutions that integrate with our GDS to add value for travel suppliers and travel buyers. Our GDS facilitates travel by efficiently bringing together travel content such as inventory, prices, and availability from a broad array of travel suppliers, including airlines, hotels, car rental brands, rail carriers, cruise lines and tour operators, with a large network of travel buyers, including online travel agencies (&#8220;OTAs&#8221;), offline travel agencies, travel management companies (&#8220;TMCs&#8221;) and corporate travel departments. 

During 2015, we expanded Travel Network's presence in the Asia Pacific (&#8220;APAC&#8221;) region through the acquisition of the remaining 65% &#32;interest in Abacus International Pte Ltd (&#8220;AIPL&#8221;), a Singapore-based business-to-business travel e-commerce provider that serves APAC. Prior to the acquisition, AIPL was 65% &#32;owned by a consortium of 11 airlines and the remaining 35% &#32;was owned by us. 

Airline and Hospitality Solutions 

Our Airline and Hospitality Solutions business offers a broad portfolio of software technology products and solutions, through software-as-a-service (&#8220;SaaS&#8221;) and hosted delivery model, to airlines, hotel properties and other travel suppliers. Airline and Hospitality Solutions aggregates our Airline Solutions and Hospitality Solutions operating segments. 

Airline Solutions &#8212;Our Airline Solutions business provides industry-leading and comprehensive software solutions that help our airline customers better market, sell, serve and operate. We offer airline software solutions in three functional suites: our reservation system, SabreSonic Customer Sales &#38; Service (&#8220;SabreSonic&#8221;); and our commercial and operations solutions, Sabre AirVision Marketing &#38; Planning; and Sabre AirCentre Enterprise Operations. SabreSonic provides comprehensive capabilities around managing sales and customer service across an airline&#8217;s diverse touch points. Sabre AirVision Marketing &#38; Planning is a set of strategic airline commercial planning solutions that focuses on helping our customers improve profitability and develop their brand. Sabre AirCentre Enterprise Operations is a set of strategic solutions that drive operational effectiveness through holistic planning and management of airline, airport and customer operations. 

Hospitality Solutions &#8212;Our Hospitality Solutions business provides software and solutions to hotel properties around the world. Our offerings include distribution through our SynXis central reservation system (&#8220;CRS&#8221;), property management through SynXis Property Manager Solution (&#8220;PMS&#8221;), marketing services and consulting services that optimize distribution and marketing. 

In January 2016, we completed the acquisition of the Trust Group of Companies (&#8220;Trust Group&#8221;), a central reservation, revenue management and hotel marketing provider with a significant presence in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (&#8220;EMEA&#8221;) and in APAC. Inclusive of this acquisition, we provide our software and solutions to over 30,000 &#32;hotel properties around the world. 

Strategy 

We provide innovative technology and solutions to help our travel industry customers succeed and grow. The key elements of our strategy include: 

&#8226; 

Commitment to develop innovative technology products through investment of significant resources in solutions that address key customer needs which include retailing solutions, mobile capabilities, data analytics and business intelligence and workflow optimization. 

&#8226; 

Geographic expansion beyond our traditional strengths by seeking to deepen our presence in high-growth geographies in Europe, including high-growth Eastern European markets, APAC and Latin America. 

&#8226; 

Pursuit of new customers and marketplace content through seeking to actively add new travel supplier content to Travel Network and continuing to pursue new customers for our Airline and Hospitality Solutions business. 

&#8226; 

Strengthen relationships with existing customers, including promoting the adoption of our products within and across our existing customers. 

Customers 

Travel Network customers consist of travel suppliers, including airlines, hotels, car rental brands, rail carriers, cruise lines, tour operators, attractions and services; a large network of travel buyers, including OTAs, offline travel agencies, TMCs and corporate travel departments; and travelers and other sellers of travel and consumers of travel information. Airline Solutions serves airlines of all sizes and in every region of the world, including hybrid carriers and low-cost carriers (collectively, &#8220;LCC/hybrids&#8221;), global network carriers and regional network carriers; and other customers such as airports, corporate aviation fleets, governments and tourism boards. Hospitality Solutions, inclusive of the acquisition of the Trust Group, has a global customer base of over 30,000 &#32;hotel properties of all sizes. 

No individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 . 

Sources of Revenue 

Transactions &#8212;Bookings that generate fees directly to Travel Network (&#8220;Direct Billable Booking&#8221;) include bookings made through our GDS (e.g., air, car and hotel bookings) and through our joint venture partners in cases where we are paid directly by the travel supplier. A transaction occurs when a travel agency or corporate travel department books or reserves, a travel supplier&#8217;s product on our GDS, for which we receive a fee. Transaction fees include, but are not limited to transaction fees paid by travel suppliers for selling their inventory through our GDS and fees paid by travel agency subscribers related to their use of certain solutions integrated with our GDS. We receive revenue from the travel supplier and the travel agency according to the commercial arrangement with each. 

SaaS and Hosted &#8212;Airline and Hospitality Solutions generates revenue through upfront solution fees and recurring usage-based fees for the use of our software solutions hosted on secure platforms or deployed via SaaS. We maintain our SaaS and hosted software and manage the related infrastructure. We collect the implementation fees and recurring usage-based fees pursuant to contracts with terms that typically range between three and ten years and generally include minimum annual volume requirements. 

Consulting &#8212;Airline and Hospitality Solutions offerings that utilize the SaaS and hosted revenue model are sometimes sold as part of multiple-element agreements for which we also provide professional services. Our professional services consist primarily of consulting services focused on helping customers achieve better utilization of and return on their software investment. Often, we provide consulting services during the implementation phase of our SaaS solutions. 

Software Licensing &#8212;Airline and Hospitality Solutions generates revenue from fees for the installation and use of our software products. Some contracts under this model generate additional revenue for the maintenance of the software product. 

Media &#8212;Advertising revenue is generated by Travel Network from customers that advertise products on our GDS. Advertisers use two types of advertising metrics: (i) display advertising and (ii) action advertising. In display advertising, advertisers generally pay based on the number of customers who view the advertisement, and are charged based on cost-per-thousand impressions. In action advertising, advertisers generally pay based on the number of customers who perform a specific action, such as click on the advertisement, and are charged based on the cost per action. 

Competition 

We compete in highly competitive markets. Travel Network competes with several other regional and global travel marketplace providers, including other GDSs, local distribution systems and travel marketplace providers primarily owned by airlines or government entities and direct distribution by travel suppliers. In addition to other GDSs and direct distributors, there are a number of other competitors in the travel distribution marketplace, including new entrants in the travel space that offer metasearch capabilities that direct shoppers to supplier websites and/or OTAs, third party aggregators and peer-to-peer options for travel services. Airline Solutions operates in an industry that is very competitive and highly fragmented, which includes other providers of reservations systems and software applications solutions and airlines that develop their own software applications and reservations systems in-house. Primary competitors of Hospitality Solutions are in the hospitality CRS and PMS fields and hotels that develop their own software applications and CRSs in house, including global hotel chains. 

Technology and Operations 

Our technology strategy is based on achieving company-wide stability and performance at the most efficient price point. Significant investment has gone into building a centralized middleware environment with an emphasis on simplicity, security, and scalability. We invest heavily in software development, delivery and operational support capabilities and strive to provide best in class products for our customers. We operate standardized infrastructure in our data center environments across hardware, operating systems, databases, and other key enabling technologies to minimize costs on non-differentiators. 

Our architecture has evolved from a mainframe centric transaction processing environment to a secure processing platform that is one of the world&#8217;s most heavily used and resilient service oriented architecture (&#8220;SOA&#8221;) environments. A variety of products and services run on this technology infrastructure: high volume air shopping systems; desktop access applications providing continuous, real-time data access to travel agents; airline operations and decision support systems; an array of customized applications available through the Sabre Red App Centre; and web based services that provide an automated interface between us and our travel suppliers and customers. The flexibility and scale of our standardized SOA based technology infrastructure allow us to quickly deliver a broad variety of SaaS and hosted solutions. 

Intellectual Property 

We use software, business processes and proprietary information to carry out our business. These assets and related intellectual property rights are significant assets of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect these assets and we license software and other intellectual property both to and from third parties. We may seek patent protection on technology, software and business processes relating to our business, and our software and related documentation may also be protected under trade secret and copyright laws where applicable. We may also benefit from both statutory and common law protection of our trademarks. 

Although we rely heavily on our brands, associated trademarks, and domain names, we do not believe that our business is dependent on any single item of intellectual property, or that any single item of intellectual property is material to the operation of our business. However, since we consider trademarks to be a valuable asset of our business, we maintain our trademark portfolio throughout the world by filing trademark applications with the relevant trademark offices, renewing appropriate registrations and regularly monitoring potential infringement of our trademarks in certain key markets. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to or affected by international, federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies, which are constantly subject to change. These laws, regulations and policies include GDS regulation in the European Union (&#8220;EU&#8221;), Canada, the United States and other locations. 

We are subject to the application of data protection and privacy regulations in many of the countries in which we operate. 

We are also subject to prohibitions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (the &#8220;OFAC rules&#8221;), which prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in financial transactions with or relating to the prohibited individual, entity or country, require the blocking of assets in which the individual, entity or country has an interest, and prohibit transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons) to such individual, entity or country. 

Our businesses may also be subject to regulations affecting issues such as: trade sanctions, exports of technology, telecommunications, and e-commerce. These regulations may vary among jurisdictions. 

See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Any failure to comply with regulations or any changes in such regulations governing our businesses could adversely affect us.&#8221; 

Seasonality 

The travel industry is seasonal in nature. Travel bookings for Travel Network, and the revenue we derive from those bookings, are typically seasonally strong in the first and third quarters, but decline significantly each year in the fourth quarter, primarily in December. We recognize air-related revenue at the date of booking and because customers generally book their November and December holiday leisure-related travel earlier in the year and business-related travel declines during the holiday season, revenue resulting from bookings is typically lower in the fourth quarter. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 9,100 people. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

Available Information 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), and in accordance therewith, we file reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other information to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available through the investor relations section of our website under the link investors.sabre.com/sec.cfm. Reports are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

In addition to our website, you may read and copy public reports we file with or furnish to the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains our reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that we file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

