 Item 1. 

Business: 

The following business overview is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information included elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (&#8220;Report&#8221;). As used in this Report, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, all references to &#8220;Steelcase,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;Company&#8221; and similar references are to Steelcase Inc. and its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained. Unless the context otherwise indicates, reference to a year relates to the fiscal year, ended in February of the year indicated, rather than a calendar year. Additionally, Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4 reference the first, second, third and fourth quarter, respectively, of the fiscal year indicated. All amounts are in millions, except share and per share data, data presented as a percentage or as otherwise indicated. 

Overview 

At Steelcase, our purpose is to unlock human promise by creating great experiences at work, wherever work happens, and in environments that include education and healthcare. Through our family of brands that include Steelcase&#174;, Coalesse&#174;, Designtex&#174;, PolyVision&#174; and Turnstone&#174;, we offer a comprehensive portfolio of solutions that support the social, economic and sustainability needs of people and are inspired by the insights gained from our human-centered research process. We are a globally integrated enterprise, headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan, U.S.A., with approximately 11,000 &#32;employees. Steelcase was founded in 1912 and became publicly traded in 1998, and our stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#8220;SCS&#8221;. 

Our growth strategy continues to focus on translating our research-based insights into products, applications and experiences that will help the world&#8217;s leading organizations amplify the performance of their people, teams and enterprise. We help our customers create workplace destinations that augment human interaction by supporting the physical, cognitive and emotional needs of their people, while also optimizing the value of their real estate investments. Over the past several years, we have continued to invest in research and product development and have launched new products, applications and experiences designed to address the significant trends that are impacting the workplace, such as global integration, disruptive technologies, worker mobility, distributed teams and the need for enhanced collaboration and innovation. 

We also continue to focus on growth through leveraging our global scale. Our global scale allows us to provide local differentiation, as we serve customers around the globe through significant sales, manufacturing and administrative operations in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. We remain committed to our strategy as a globally integrated enterprise and growing our presence in emerging markets alongside our global customers and where we believe we can serve the needs of workers and organizations. 

We market our products and services primarily through a network of independent and company-owned dealers and also sell directly to end-use customers. We extend our reach with a limited presence in retail and web-based sales channels. 

Our Offerings 

Our brands provide an integrated portfolio of furniture settings, user-centered technologies and interior architectural products across a range of price points. Our furniture portfolio includes panel-based and freestanding furniture systems and complementary products such as storage, tables and ergonomic worktools. Our seating products include task chairs which are highly ergonomic, seating that can be used in collaborative or casual settings and specialty seating for specific vertical markets such as healthcare and education. Our technology solutions support group collaboration by integrating furniture and technology. Our interior architectural products include full and partial height walls and doors. We also offer services designed to reduce costs and enhance the performance of people, wherever they work. Among these services are workplace strategy consulting, lease origination services, furniture and asset management and hosted spaces. 

Steelcase 

The Steelcase brand takes our insights from research and delivers high performance, sustainable work environments while striving to be a trusted partner. Being a trusted partner means understanding and helping our customers and partners who truly seek to elevate their performance. The Steelcase brand ' s core customers are leading organizations (such as corporations, healthcare organizations, colleges/universities and government 

entities) that are often large with ever-changing complex needs and have an increasingly global reach. We strive to meet their diverse needs while minimizing complexity by using a platform approach &#8212; from product components to common processes &#8212; wherever possible. 

Steelcase sub-brands include: 

&#8226; 

Steelcase Health , which is focused on creating healthcare environments that enable empathy, empowerment and connection for patients, care partners, and providers engaged in the healthcare experience. 

&#8226; 

Steelcase Education, &#32;which is focused on helping schools, colleges and universities create the most effective, rewarding and inspiring "active learning" environments to meet the evolving needs of students and educators. 

Coalesse 

Coalesse offers a collection of furnishings that expresses a new freedom at work. It is part of the rapidly growing crossover and ancillary market&#8212;homes and offices, meeting rooms and social spaces, private retreats and public places&#8212;and is addressing the fluid intersections of work and life where boundaries are collapsing and creativity is increasing. 

Designtex 

Designtex offers applied surface solutions that enhance environments and is a leading resource for applied surface knowledge, innovation and sustainability. Designtex products are premium fabrics and surface materials designed to enhance seating, walls, work stations and floors and can provide privacy, way-finding, motivation, communications and artistic expression. 

PolyVision 

PolyVision is the world ' s leading supplier of ceramic steel surfaces for use in educational institutions and architectural panels or special applications for commercial or infrastructure applications. 

Turnstone 

Turnstone was created based on the belief that the world needs more successful entrepreneurs and small businesses and that great spaces to work can help that happen. Turnstone makes it easier for these companies to create insight-led places to work through our dealer channel or using web-based tools. 

Reportable Segments 

We operate on a worldwide basis within our Americas and EMEA reportable segments plus an &#8220;Other&#8221; category. Additional information about our reportable segments, including financial information about geographic areas, is contained in Item 7: Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#32;and Note 18 &#32;to the consolidated financial statements. 

Americas Segment 

Our Americas segment serves customers in the United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;), Canada, the Caribbean Islands and Latin America. Our portfolio of integrated architecture, furniture and technology products is marketed to corporate, government, healthcare, education and retail customers through the Steelcase, Coalesse and Turnstone brands. 

We serve Americas customers mainly through approximately 400 &#32;independent and company-owned dealer locations, and we also sell directly to end-use customers. Our end-use customers tend to be larger multinational, regional or local companies and are distributed across a broad range of industries and vertical markets, including healthcare, financial services, manufacturing, higher education, insurance and information technology. No industry or vertical market individually represented more than 13% &#32;of the Americas segment revenue in 2016 . 

Each of our dealers maintains its own sales force which is complemented by our sales representatives who work closely with our dealers throughout the selling process. The largest independent dealer in the Americas accounted for approximately 6% &#32;of the segment&#8217;s revenue in 2016 , and the five largest independent dealers collectively accounted for approximately 17% &#32;of the segment&#8217;s revenue in 2016 . 

In 2016 , the Americas segment recorded revenue of $2,256.0 , or 73.7% &#32;of our consolidated revenue, and as of the end of the year had approximately 7,300 &#32;employees, of which approximately 4,800 &#32;related to manufacturing. 

The Americas office furniture industry is highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar categories of products. The industry competes on a combination of insight, product performance, design, price and relationships with customers, architects and designers. Our most significant competitors in the U.S. are Haworth, Inc., Herman Miller, Inc., HNI Corporation and Knoll, Inc. Together with Steelcase, domestic revenue from these companies represents approximately one-half of the U.S. office furniture industry. 

EMEA Segment 

Our EMEA segment serves customers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa primarily under the Steelcase and Coalesse brands, with an emphasis on freestanding furniture systems, storage and seating solutions. Our largest presence is in Western Europe, where we believe we are among the market leaders in Germany, France, Spain and the United Kingdom. In 2016 , approximately 82% &#32;of EMEA revenue was from Western Europe. The remaining revenue was from other parts of Europe, the Middle East and Africa. No individual country in the EMEA segment represented more than 5% &#32;of our consolidated revenue in 2016 . 

We serve EMEA customers through approximately 350 &#32;independent and company-owned dealer locations. No single independent dealer in the EMEA segment accounted for more than 3% &#32;of the segment&#8217;s revenue in 2016 . The five largest independent dealers collectively accounted for approximately 10% &#32;of the segment&#8217;s revenue in 2016 . In certain geographic markets, we sell directly to end-use customers. Our end-use customers tend to be larger multinational, regional or local companies spread across a broad range of industries and vertical markets, including financial services, higher education, healthcare, government and information technology. 

In 2016 , our EMEA segment recorded revenue of $520.6 , or 17.0% &#32;of our consolidated revenue, and as of the end of the year had approximately 2,100 employees, of which approximately 1,000 &#32;related to manufacturing. 

The EMEA office furniture market is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with many local and regional manufacturers in many different markets. In several cases, these competitors focus on specific product categories. 

Other Category 

The Other category includes Asia Pacific, Designtex and PolyVision. 

Asia Pacific serves customers in the People&#8217;s Republic of China (including Hong Kong), India, Australia, Japan, Singapore, Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia and other countries in Southeast Asia, primarily under the Steelcase brand with an emphasis on freestanding furniture systems, storage and seating solutions. We sell directly and through approximately 50 &#32;independent dealer locations to end-use customers. Our end-use customers tend to be larger multinational or regional companies spread across a broad range of industries and are located in both mature and emerging markets. Our competition in Asia Pacific is fragmented and includes large global competitors as well as many regional and local manufacturers. 

Designtex primarily sells textiles and wall covering products specified by architects and designers directly to end-use customers through a direct sales force primarily in North America. 

PolyVision manufactures ceramic steel surfaces for use in multiple applications but primarily for sale to third-party fabricators and distributors to create static whiteboards and chalkboards sold in the primary and secondary education markets globally. 

In 2016 , the Other category accounted for $283.4 , or 9.3% &#32;of our consolidated revenue, and as of the end of the year had approximately 1,600 employees, of which approximately 900 &#32;related to manufacturing. 

Corporate 

Corporate expenses include unallocated portions of shared service functions such as information technology, corporate facilities, finance, human resources, research, legal and executive. 

Joint Ventures and Other Equity Investments 

We enter into joint ventures and other equity investments from time to time to expand or maintain our geographic presence, support our distribution network or invest in new business ventures, complementary products or services. As of February 26, 2016 , our investment in these unconsolidated joint ventures and other equity investments totaled $51.0 . Our share of the earnings from joint ventures and other equity investments is recorded in Other income (expense), net &#32;on the Consolidated Statements of Income . 

Customer and Dealer Concentrations 

Our largest customer accounted for approximately 1% &#32;of our consolidated revenue in 2016 , and our five largest customers collectively accounted for approximately 4% &#32;of our consolidated revenue. However, these percentages do not include revenue from various U.S. federal government agencies. In 2016 , our sales to U.S. federal government agencies represented approximately 3% &#32;of our consolidated revenue. We do not believe our business is dependent on any single or small number of end-use customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 

No single independent dealer accounted for more than 5% &#32;of our consolidated revenue in 2016 . The five largest independent dealers collectively accounted for approximately 13% &#32;of our consolidated revenue in 2016 . We do not believe our business is dependent on any single dealer, the loss of which would have a sustained material adverse effect upon our business. 

Working Capital 

Our accounts receivable are from our dealers and direct-sale customers. Payment terms vary by country and region. The terms of our Americas segment, and certain markets within the EMEA segment, encourage prompt payment from dealers by offering an early settlement discount. Other international markets have, by market convention, longer payment terms. We are not aware of any special or unusual practices or conditions related to working capital items, including accounts receivable, inventories and accounts payable, which are significant to understanding our business or the industry at large. 

Backlog 

Our products are generally manufactured and shipped within two to six weeks following receipt of an order; however, in recent years our mix of project business has increased and customer-requested shipment dates have increasingly extended beyond historical averages. Nevertheless, we do not view the amount of backlog at any particular time as a meaningful indicator of longer-term shipments. 

Global Manufacturing and Supply Chain 

Manufacturing and Logistics 

We have manufacturing operations throughout North America (in the U.S. and Mexico), Europe (in France, Germany, Spain and the Czech Republic) and Asia (in China, Malaysia and India). Our global manufacturing operations are centralized under a single organization to serve our customers&#8217; needs across multiple brands and geographies. 

Our manufacturing model is predominately make-to-order with lead times typically ranging from two to six weeks. We manufacture our products using lean manufacturing principles, which allow us to achieve efficiencies and cost savings and minimize the amount of inventory on hand. As a result, we largely purchase direct materials and components as needed to meet demand. We have evolved our manufacturing and supply chain systems significantly over the last two decades by implementing continuous one-piece flow, platforming our processes and product offerings and developing a global network of integrated suppliers. We also purchase finished goods manufactured by third parties predominantly on a make-to-order basis. 

These changes to our manufacturing model have reduced the capital needs of our business and the footprint of our manufacturing space and have allowed us to improve quality, delivery performance and the customer experience. We continue to identify opportunities to improve the fitness of our business and strengthen our long-term competitiveness. 

In addition to our ongoing focus on enhancing the efficiency of our manufacturing operations, we also seek to reduce costs through our global sourcing effort. We have capitalized on the platforming of our product offering and 

are capturing raw material and component cost savings available through lower cost suppliers around the globe. This platforming of our product offering and global development of potential sources of supply has enhanced our leverage with supply sources, and we have been able to reduce cycle times through improvements with our partners throughout the supply chain. 

Our physical distribution system utilizes commercial transport, company-owned and dedicated fleet delivery services. We have implemented a network of regional distribution centers to reduce freight costs and improve service to our dealers and customers. 

Raw Materials 

We source raw materials and components from a significant number of suppliers around the world. Those raw materials include steel, petroleum-based products, aluminum, other metals, wood, particleboard and other materials and components. To date, we have not experienced any significant difficulties in obtaining these raw materials. 

The prices for certain commodities such as steel, petroleum-based products, aluminum, other metals, wood and particleboard have fluctuated in recent years due to changes in global supply and demand. Our global supply chain team continually evaluates current market conditions, the financial viability of our suppliers and available supply options on the basis of quality, reliability of supply and cost. 

Research, Design and Development 

Our extensive global research&#8212;a combination of user observations, feedback sessions and sophisticated analysis&#8212;has helped us develop social, spatial and informational insights into work effectiveness. We maintain collaborative relationships with external world-class innovators, including leading universities, think tanks and knowledge leaders, to expand and deepen our understanding of how people work. 

Understanding patterns of work enables us to identify and anticipate user needs across the globe. Our design teams explore and develop prototypical solutions to address these needs. These solutions vary from furniture, architecture and technology solutions to single products or enhancements to existing products and across different vertical market applications such as professional services, healthcare and higher education. Organizationally, global design leadership directs strategy and project work, which is distributed to design studios around the world and sometimes involves external design services. 

Our marketing team evaluates product concepts using several criteria, including financial return metrics, and chooses which products will be developed and launched. Designers then work closely with engineers and suppliers to co-develop products and processes that incorporate innovative user features with efficient manufacturing practices. Products are tested for performance, quality and compliance with applicable standards and regulations. 

Exclusive of royalty payments, we invested $33.0 , $35.4 &#32;and $35.9 &#32;in research, design and development activities in 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. We continue to invest more than one percent of our revenue in research, design and development each year. Royalties are sometimes paid to external designers of our products as the products are sold. These costs are not included in research and development expenses. 

Intellectual Property 

We generate and hold a significant number of patents in a number of countries in connection with the operation of our business. We also hold a number of trademarks that are very important to our identity and recognition in the marketplace. We do not believe that any material part of our business is dependent on the continued availability of any one or all of our patents or trademarks or that our business would be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of such, except the &#8220;Steelcase,&#8221; &#8220;Coalesse,&#8221; &#8220;Designtex,&#8221; &#8220;PolyVision&#8221; and &#8220;Turnstone&#8221; trademarks. 

We occasionally enter into license agreements under which we pay a royalty to third parties for the use of patented products, designs or process technology. We have established a global network of intellectual property licenses with our subsidiaries. 

Employees 

As of February 26, 2016 , we had approximately 11,000 employees, of which approximately 6,700 &#32;work in manufacturing. Additionally, we had approximately 1,800 &#32;temporary workers who primarily work in manufacturing. Approximately 100 &#32;employees in the U.S. are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Outside of the U.S., 1,900 &#32;employees are represented by workers' councils that operate to promote the interests of workers. Management promotes positive relations with employees based on empowerment and teamwork. 

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment (&#8220;Environmental Laws&#8221;). We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with all Environmental Laws. We do not believe existing Environmental Laws and regulations have had or will have any material effects upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 

Under certain Environmental Laws, we could be held liable, without regard to fault, for the costs of remediation associated with our existing or historical operations. We could also be held responsible for third-party property and personal injury claims or for violations of Environmental Laws relating to contamination. We are a party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings relating to several contaminated properties being investigated and remediated under Environmental Laws, including as a potentially responsible party in several Superfund site cleanups. Based on our information regarding the nature and volume of wastes allegedly disposed of or released at these properties, the total estimated cleanup costs and other financially viable potentially responsible parties, we do not believe the costs to us associated with these properties will be material, either individually or in the aggregate. We have established reserves that we believe are adequate to cover our anticipated remediation costs. However, certain events could cause our actual costs to vary from the established reserves. These events include, but are not limited to: a change in governmental regulations or cleanup standards or requirements; undiscovered information regarding the nature and volume of wastes allegedly disposed of or released at these properties; and other factors increasing the cost of remediation or the loss of other potentially responsible parties that are financially capable of contributing toward cleanup costs. 

Available Information 

We file annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;). The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Office of FOIA Services at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549-2736. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Office of FOIA Services by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov &#32;that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, including Steelcase, that file electronically with the SEC. 

We also make available free of charge through our internet website, www.steelcase.com, &#32;our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Ethics, Code of Business Conduct and the charters for the Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees are available free of charge through our website or by writing to Steelcase Inc., Investor Relations, GH-3E-12, PO Box 1967, Grand Rapids, Michigan 49501-1967. 

We are not including the information contained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Report. 

