 ITEM 1. Business. 

ScanSource , &#32;Inc. was incorporated in South Carolina in 1992 and is a leading global provider of technology products and solutions. ScanSource, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("the Company") provide value-added solutions for technology manufacturers and sell to resellers in the following specialty technology markets: POS and Barcode, Networking and Security, Communications and Emerging Technologies. 

The Company operates in the United States, Canada, Latin America, and Europe. The Company sells to the United States and Canada from distribution centers located in Mississippi and Virginia; to Latin America principally from distribution centers located in Florida, Mexico, Brazil, and Colombia; and to Europe principally from distribution centers in Belgium, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom. 

Business Segments 

Worldwide Barcode &#38; Security Segment 

The Barcode &#38; Security segment focuses on automatic identification and data capture ("AIDC"), point-of-sale ("POS"), networking, electronic physical security, 3D printing technologies, and other specialty technologies. We have business units within this segment for sales and merchandising functions in North America, Latin America, and Europe. We see adjacencies among these technologies in helping our resellers develop solutions, such as with networking products. AIDC and POS products interface with computer systems used to automate the collection, processing and communication of information for commercial and industrial applications, including retail sales, distribution, shipping, inventory control, materials handling, warehouse management and health care applications. Electronic physical security products include identification, access control, video surveillance, intrusion-related and wireless and networking infrastructure products. 3D printing solutions replace and complement traditional methods and reduce the time and cost of designing new products by printing real parts directly from digital input. 

Worldwide Communications &#38; Services Segment 

The Communications &#38; Services segment focuses on communications technologies and services. We have business units within this segment for sales and merchandising functions, and these business units offer voice, video conferencing, wireless, data networking and converged communications solutions in North America, Latin America, and Europe. As these solutions come together on IP networks, new opportunities are created for value-added resellers to move into adjacent solutions for all vertical markets, including education, healthcare, and government. Our teams deliver value-added support programs and services, including education and training, network assessments, custom configuration, implementation and marketing to help resellers develop a new technology practice, or to extend their capability and reach. 

Products and Markets 

The Company currently markets over 100,000 &#32;products from approximately 400 &#32;hardware and software vendors to approximately 34,000 &#32;reseller customers from distribution centers in Mississippi, Virginia, Florida, Mexico, Colombia, Brazil, Belgium, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom. 

The Barcode &#38; Security segment focuses on AIDC, POS, networking and security. 

&#8226; 

AIDC technology incorporates the capabilities for electronic identification and data processing without the need for manual input and consists of a wide range of products that include portable data collection terminals, wireless products, bar code label printers and scanners. As AIDC technology has become more pervasive, applications have evolved from traditional uses such as inventory control, materials handling, distribution, shipping and warehouse management to more advanced applications, such as health care. 

&#8226; 

POS products include those computer-based systems that have replaced electronic cash registers in grocery, retail and hospitality environments. POS product lines include computer-based terminals, monitors, payment processing solutions, receipt printers, pole displays, cash drawers, keyboards, peripheral equipment and fully integrated processing units. In 

Index to Financial Statements 

addition, ScanSource POS and Barcode business units sell products that attach to the POS network in the store, including kiosks, network access points, routers and digital signage. 

&#8226; 

Electronic physical security products include identification, access control, video surveillance and intrusion-related products, and networking. Physical security products are used every day across every vertical market to protect lives, property and information, there is a heavy penetration into schools, municipalities, correctional institutions and retail environments. Physical security products are deployed across both wired and wireless infrastructures and often serve as the backbone of the solution. These technology products require specialized knowledge to deploy effectively, and ScanSource Security offers in-depth training and education to its partners to enable them to maintain the appropriate skill levels. 

The Communications &#38; Services segment focuses on communications technologies and services. 

&#8226; 

Communications technologies, such as voice and data products include private branch exchanges ("PBXs"), key systems, telephone handsets and components used in voice, fax, data, voice recognition, call center management and IP communication applications. Converged communication products combine voice, data, fax and speech technologies to deliver communications solutions that combine computers, telecommunications and the Internet. Converged communications products include telephone and IP network interfaces, Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") systems, PBX integration products and carrier-class board systems-level products. Video products include video and voice conferencing and network systems; and data networking products include switches, servers and routers. 

&#8226; 

Our service teams deliver value-added support programs, including education and training, customer configuration, marketing services, network assessments, WiFi services, and partnership programs. Service teams focus on reducing complexity, building efficiency, and helping our resellers to develop a new technology practice or to extend their capability and reach. 

See Item 7, "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" below for a discussion of the amount of the Company&#8217;s net sales contributed by business segment. 

Industry Overview 

The distribution channels for specialty technology products generally consist of manufacturers (also referred to as vendors), wholesale distributors such as ScanSource, resellers and end users. The "sales channel" for specialty technology products typically evolves through a three-stage process: (i) direct sales by manufacturers to end-users; (ii) single-tier distribution in which manufacturers sell to resellers who, in turn, sell directly to end users; and (iii) two-tier, or wholesale distribution, in which manufacturers sell to wholesale distributors, including ScanSource, who sell only to resellers, who, in turn, sell directly to end users. Currently, the wholesale distribution channel for technology products is served by both broad line and specialty distributors. The broad line distributors are engaged primarily in conventional order fulfillment and typically offer their reseller customers less support and fewer value-added services than do specialty distributors. The specialty distributors that compete with ScanSource are generally smaller, both in terms of size and geographic area covered. 

Competition among an expanding number of manufacturers typically causes product prices to decrease and product applications to expand, which has resulted in an increasing number of resellers entering the market in order to support a broader base of potential end users. As the number of resellers and end-users has grown, competition among manufacturers and within the reseller channel has intensified. Because many specialty technology manufacturers develop products that represent only one part of a total solution, most products eventually are developed to provide interoperability among products from multiple manufacturers. As a result of interoperability, a variety of manufacturers' products typically are configured together to create a system solution. Therefore, both manufacturers and resellers have become more dependent upon value-added wholesale distributors, such as ScanSource , &#32;for the aggregation of products and reseller support services, as well as the organization and maintenance of an efficient market structure. 

In addition, manufacturers that face declining product prices and rising costs of direct sales increasingly rely upon value-added wholesale distributors by outsourcing certain support functions, such as product assortment, delivery, inventory management, technical assistance and marketing. At the same time, shortened product life cycles and the introduction of new products and applications have caused resellers to increasingly rely on wholesale distributors for various inventory management, financing, technical support and related functions. The Company believes that, as the reseller market grows and becomes more fragmented, and as specialty technology products continue to transition to open systems, the wholesale distribution channel in which the Company operates will become increasingly more important. 

Index to Financial Statements 

Vendors 

The Company's distributes the products of approximately 400 &#32;vendors, including Aruba/HPE, Axis, AudioCodes, Avaya, Barco, Bematech, Brocade/ Ruckus Wireless, Cisco, Datalogic, Dell, Dialogic, Elo, Epson, Honeywell, HID, Ingenico, Jabra, March Networks, Mitel, NCR, Oracle, Panasonic, Plantronics, Polycom, Samsung, ShoreTel, Sony, Spectralink, Toshiba Global Commerce Solutions, Ubiquiti, Unify, Verifone and Zebra Technologies. 

&#160; 

The Company distributes products for many of its key vendors in all of its geographic markets; however, certain vendors only 

allow distribution to specific geographies. The Company typically purchases products directly from the manufacturer on a non-exclusive basis. The Company's agreements with its vendors generally do not restrict the Company from selling similar or comparable products manufactured by competitors. The Company has the flexibility to terminate or curtail sales of one product line in favor of another due to technological change, pricing considerations, product availability, customer demand or vendor distribution policies. 

Three vendors, Avaya, Cisco, and Zebra, each constituted more than 10% &#32;of the Company's net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 , representing a vendor concentration. 

&#8226; 

The Company has two non-exclusive distribution agreements with Avaya. One agreement covers the distribution of Avaya products in the United States and Latin America, and the other agreement covers distribution of Avaya products in the United Kingdom and portions of continental Europe. The Company's Avaya agreements each have a one year term that automatically renews for additional one year terms. Either party may terminate upon 180 days' for the U.S. and Latin America agreement and upon 90 days' for the European agreement. 

&#8226; 

The Company has two non-exclusive distribution agreements with Cisco. One agreement covers the distribution of Cisco products in the United States for the newly acquired KBZ business and has a three year term, the other agreement covers distribution of Cisco products in the Unites States for the ScanSource business and has a two year term; each must be renewed by written agreement. Either party may terminate the agreement upon 30 days' notice to the other party. 

&#8226; 

The Company has two non-exclusive distribution agreements with Zebra. One agreement covers sales of Zebra hardware and software products in North and South America, and another agreement covers sales of Zebra hardware and software products in Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"). The Zebra agreements each have a one year term that automatically renews for additional one year terms, and either party may terminate the agreement upon 30 days' notice to the other party. 

In addition to the agreements mentioned above, the Company has written distribution agreements with almost all of its vendors. These agreements generally provide the Company with non-exclusive distribution rights and often include territorial restrictions that limit the countries in which the Company can distribute its products. The Company's distribution agreements are generally short-term, subject to periodic renewal, and provide for termination by either party without cause upon 30 to 120 days' notice. These agreements typically provide the Company with stock rotation and price protection provisions. Stock rotation rights give the Company the ability, subject to limitations, to return, for credit, or exchange a portion of the items purchased. Price protection rights enable the Company to a credit for declines in inventory value resulting from the vendor's price reductions. Along with the Company's inventory management policies and practices, these provisions are designed to reduce the Company's risk of loss due to slow-moving inventory, vendor price reductions, product updates and obsolescence. 

The Company participates in various rebate, cash discount and cooperative marketing programs offered by its vendors to support expenses associated with distributing and marketing the vendor's products. These rebates and purchase discounts are generally influenced by sales volumes and are subject to change. 

The Company's vendors generally warrant the products the Company distributes and allow returns of defective products, including those returned to the Company by its customers. The Company generally does not independently warrant the products it distributes; however, local laws may in some cases impose warranty obligations on the Company. 

Customers 

Index to Financial Statements 

The Company&#8217;s reseller customers currently include approximately 34,000 &#32;active value-added resellers ("VAR") located in the United States, Canada, Latin America and Europe. No single customer accounted for more than 5% &#32;of the Company&#8217;s total net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 . The Company generally targets resellers, including specialty technology VARs and Information Technology ("IT") system integrators and service providers. 

Specialty Technology VARs 

These resellers focus on selling specialty technology products as tailored software or integrated hardware solutions for their end-users&#8217; existing applications. They also incorporate specialty technology products into customized technology solutions for their end-users. Primary industries served by these resellers include manufacturing, distribution, health care, pharmaceutical, hospitality, government, convenience, grocery, financial and other retail markets. 

Direct Marketers 

The resellers provider a very broad range of technology brands to business, government, education, and healthcare. They have strong relationships with end users, and are seeking additional revenue and profit opportunities in specialty technology markets such as AIDC, POS, physical security, or communications. 

IT System Integrators 

These resellers develop computer and networking solutions for their end-users&#8217; IT needs. They typically have well-established relationships with end-user decision makers and are seeking additional revenue and profit opportunities in technology markets, such as AIDC, POS, physical security or communications. 

Service Providers 

These providers focus on providing advanced services that offer customized solutions that bundle data, collaboration, cloud, network and digital telecommunication services for their end-users' needs. They specialize in multi-vendor and multi-discipline services within various geographies. 

Competition 

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on factors such as price, product availability, speed and accuracy of delivery, effectiveness of sales and marketing programs, credit availability, ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality and breadth of product lines and services, and availability of technical and product information. Because of price competition, sales margins are constantly under pressure. 

Our competitors include regional and national wholesale distributors, as well as hardware manufacturers (including most of the Company&#8217;s vendors) that sell directly to resellers and to end users. In addition, our competitors include master resellers that sell to franchisees, third party dealers and end users. Certain current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company has and may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Certain smaller, regional competitors, who are specialty two tier or mixed model master resellers, may also be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Competition has increased for our sales units over the last several years as broad line and other value added distributors have entered into the specialty technology markets. Such competition could also result in price reductions, reduced margins and/or loss of market share. 

In our Barcode and Security segment, we compete with broad-line distributors, such as Avnet, Ingram Micro, Synnex, and Tech Data in most geographic areas, and more specialized security distributors, such as ADI and Anixter. Additionally, the Company also competes against other smaller, more specialized AIDC and POS distributors, such as Azerty, BlueStar, Jarltech, and Nimax. In our Communications/Services segment, the Company competes against broad-line distributors, such as Avnet, Ingram Micro, Synnex and Tech Data, and more specialized distributors, such as Jenne and Westcon. As the Company seeks to expand its business into other areas closely related to the Company&#8217;s offerings, the Company may encounter increased competition from current competitors and/or from new competitors, some of which may be the Company&#8217;s current customers. 

Sales and Electronic Commerce 

Index to Financial Statements 

The Company&#8217;s sales department consists primarily of inside sales representatives located in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Peru, Belgium, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Poland. In order to build strong customer relationships, most active resellers are assigned to a sales representative. Each sales representative negotiates pricing directly with his or her assigned customers. The Company also employs business development representatives who are responsible for developing technical expertise within broad product markets, recruiting customers, creating demand, and reviewing overall product and service requirements of resellers. Each sales representative and business development representative receives comprehensive training with respect to the technical characteristics of each vendor&#8217;s products. This training is supplemented by frequent product seminars conducted by vendors&#8217; representatives and bi-weekly meetings among product, marketing and sales managers. 

Increasingly, customers rely upon the Company&#8217;s electronic ordering and information systems as sources for product information, including availability and price. Through the Company&#8217;s websites, most customers can gain remote access to the Company&#8217;s information systems to check real-time product availability, see their customized pricing and place orders. Customers can also follow the status of their orders and obtain package tracking details. 

Marketing 

The Company markets it products and services through a range of channels, including digital campaigns, such as search engine optimization, search engine marketing, content marketing, content automation, e-commerce, social media optimization, email direct marketing, and online product catalogs for each of the North American, European, and Latin American markets. Additional marketing activities include periodic newsletters, management of sales leads, trade shows with hardware/software companies and vendors, and sales promotions. The Company also organizes and operates its own training and certification courses - working closely with top vendors to recruit prospective resellers and introduce new applications for the specialty technology products it distributes. The Company frequently customizes its marketing services for vendors and resellers. 

Value-Added Services 

We differentiate ourselves by providing our resellers and our vendors an array of pre-sale business tools and value-added services, including logistics, financial services, product configuration tools, sales expertise, and technical support. These services allow our customers to gain knowledge on marketing, to gain expertise in selling and negotiation, to grow their business profitably, and to be more cost effective in their business. Our business is enhanced by our ability and our willingness to provide the extra service that keeps both our vendors and our customers satisfied. In addition, we offer services to assist resellers in providing more complete solutions and improving customer service. Our mission is to provide our partners with the best and most cost-effective tools that will help accelerate business growth. Through our professional services, integration, custom configuration, marketing, education and training programs, we offer services to improve efficiency, productivity, quality control, and profitability of our business partners. Partners can leverage our expertise to complement or expand their reach, as well as create opportunities, extend resources and increase profit. 

Operations 

Information Systems 

The Company is in the process of continuing to roll-out a new, global SAP information system designed to replace the current existing systems. This new system is currently operating in Europe and in North America. The current information systems (including the new SAP system) are scalable and capable of supporting numerous operational functions including purchasing, receiving, order processing, shipping, inventory management and accounting. Sales representatives rely on the information systems for on-line, real-time information on product pricing, inventory availability and reservation, and order status. The Company&#8217;s warehouse operations use bar code technology for receiving and shipping, and automated systems for freight processing and shipment tracking, each of which is integrated with the Company&#8217;s multiple information systems. The customer service and technical support departments employ the systems for documentation and faster processing of customer product returns. To ensure that adequate inventory levels are maintained, the Company&#8217;s buyers depend on the system&#8217;s purchasing and receiving functions to track inventory on a continual basis. 

Warehouse and Shipping Strategy 

Index to Financial Statements 

We operate a 593,000 square foot distribution center in Southaven, Mississippi, which is located near the FedEx hub facility in Memphis, Tennessee, and serves primarily all of North America. Our European operations utilize a limited number of distribution centers located in Belgium, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. Warehouses for our Latin American operations are located in Florida, Mexico, Brazil, and Colombia. Our objective is to ship all orders on the same day, using technology to expedite shipments and minimize shipping errors. The Company offers reduced freight rates and flexible delivery options to minimize a reseller&#8217;s need for inventory. 

Financial Services 

Our sales terms are competitive within our specific geographic areas for qualified resellers and facilitate various third-party financing options, which include leasing, flooring and other secured financing. We believe this policy reduces the customer&#8217;s need to establish multiple credit relationships with a large number of manufacturers. 

Employees 

As of June 30, 2016 , we had approximately 2,000 &#32;employees located in the United States, Canada, Latin America and Europe. The Company has no organized labor or trade unions in the United States. The Company considers its employee relations to be good. 

Service Marks 

The Company conducts its business under the trade names and service marks "ScanSource POS and Barcode," "ScanSource Catalyst," "ScanSource Communications," "ScanSource Services," "ScanSource Networking and Security," "KBZ Communications, a ScanSource Company," "ScanSource Europe," "ScanSource Europe Communications," "ScanSource Latin America," "ScanSource Mexico," "ScanSource Brasil," "Imago ScanSource," and "Network1, a ScanSource company." 

The Company has been issued registrations for the service marks "ScanSource," "Catalyst Telecom," and "NetPoint" in countries in its principal markets. Additionally, we have registered "ScanSource Catalyst" as a trademark in the United States. These trade names and service marks do not have value assigned to them and have a designated indefinite life. The Company does not believe that its operations are dependent upon any of its trade names or service marks. The Company also sells products and provides services under various trade names and service marks to which reference is made in this report that are the property of owners other than the Company. 

Additional Information 

The Company&#8217;s principal internet address is www.scansource.com. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, the Company&#8217;s website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report. The Company provides its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, free of charge on www.scansource.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). 

