 ITEM 1. BUSINESS General 

We were incorporated on July 17, 2006 under the laws of British Columbia, Canada under the name Golden Predator Mines Inc. We were incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary of Energy Metals Corp. for the purpose of holding precious metals and certain specialty metals assets. In order to focus on specialty metals, during February 2009 we transferred most of our precious mineral assets to our then wholly-owned subsidiary Golden Predator Corp. and on March 6, 2009 we completed a spin-out of Golden Predator Corp. to our shareholders. Effective March 12, 2009, we changed our name to EMC Metals Corp. In order to reflect a new emphasis on mining for scandium minerals, effective November 19, 2014, we changed our name to Scandium International Mining Corp. 

We are a reporting issuer in the Canadian Provinces of British Columbia, Alberta and Ontario and our common shares are listed for trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the trading symbol &#147;SCY&#148;.

Our head office is located at 1430 Greg Street, Suite 501, Sparks, Nevada 89431. The address of our registered office is 1200 - 750 West Pender Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, V6C 2T8.

Our focus of operations is the development of the Nyngan Scandium project located in New South Wales, Australia (the &#147;Nyngan Scandium Project&#148;). We also hold a scandium/rare earth minerals property in Norway known as the T&#248;rdal property. 

Our plan of operation for the remainder of 2016 is to complete a definitive feasibility study (&#147;DFS&#148;) and an environmental impact statement (&#147;EIS&#148;) on our Nyngan Scandium Project, obtain the required environmental and mining permits and seek additional funding for project construction and corporate working capital. We will also continue to test and develop unique scandium recovery and finishing techniques. 

Intercorporate Relationships 

The chart below illustrates our corporate structure on December 31, 2015, including our subsidiaries, the jurisdictions of incorporation, and the percentage of voting securities held. 

Recent History 

Preliminary Economic Assessment 

In October of 2014 we obtained an independent report of a preliminary economic assessment of our Nyngan Scandium Project entitled &#147; NI 43-101 F1 Technical Report on the Feasibility of the Nyngan Scandium Project &#148; prepared by Larpro Pty Ltd. of Brisbane, Australia. On May 20, 2015, we obtained an amended technical report (the &#147;PEA&#148;) titled &#147;Amended Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Analysis on the Nyngan Scandium Project, NSW, Australia&#148; . The effective date of the report, as amended, is October 10, 2014. The full report is available on our website. A summary of the report is provided herein under &#147; ITEM 2. PROPERTIES &#150; NYNGAN SCANDIUM PROJECT &#150; Nyngan Preliminary Economic Assessment &#148;.

Definitive Feasibility Study 

During September 2015 we initiated an independent DFS on our Nyngan Scandium Project. The engineering firm Lycopodium Minerals Pty Ltd, of Brisbane, QLD, Australia, was selected to prepare the DFS which is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2016. The DFS will include all elements of project description and design to generate an economic report suitable for seeking project construction financing in 2016. Process engineering and other project study elements will be advanced to a +/-15% accuracy level. 

June 2014 Financing Transaction 

On June 24, 2014 SCY entered into a $2.5 million loan facility with Scandium Investments LLC (&#147;SIL&#148;), a company owned by a US private investor group (the &#147;2014 Loan&#148;). The proceeds of the 2014 Loan were applied to pay a A$1.3 million final payment to Jervois Mining Ltd. (&#147;Jervois&#148;) required for SCY to acquire a 100% interest in the Nyngan Scandium Project pursuant to the terms of a settlement agreement. The balance of the proceeds of the 2014 Loan was applied to repay $1.2 million in maturing debt. The 2014 Loan had a maturity date of December 24, 2015. 

In accordance with the terms of the 2014 Loan, the outstanding principal and interest automatically convert into an effective 20% joint venture interest in both our Nyngan Scandium Project and our exploration license, referred to as the Honeybugle Scandium property, at the time the Company meets a funding milestone (defined as raising $3.0 million in equity). The funding milestone was met on August 24, 2015 and the 2014 Loan has converted into a 20% ownership interest in EMC Metals Australia Pty Ltd (&#147;EMC Australia&#148;), with SCY holding an 80% ownership interest. EMC Australia holds our interests in the Nyngan Scandium Project and Honeybugle Scandium property. Under the terms of the 2014 Loan, upon conversion of the loan EMC Australia will be operated as a joint venture between SIL and SCY with SIL holding a carried interest in the Nyngan Scandium Project until the Company meets two development milestones: (1) filing a feasibility study on SEDAR, and (2) receiving a mining license on either joint venture property. At such time as the two development milestones are met, SIL becomes fully participating on project costs thereafter. 

Completion of the development milestones by the Company, as described above, activates a second onetime, limited period option for SIL to elect to convert the fair market value of its 20% joint venture interest in the Nyngan Scandium Project and Honeybugle Scandium property into an equivalent value of the Company&#146;s common shares, at then prevailing market prices, rather than continue with ownership at the project level.

Nyngan Scandium Project Acquisition 

On February 5, 2010, SCY entered into an Exploration Joint Venture Agreement (&#147;JV Agreement&#148;) with Jervois Mining Limited (&#147;Jervois&#148;) of Melbourne, Australia (ASX: JRV) to co-develop the Nyngan scandium property (&#147;Nyngan&#148;), in New South Wales, Australia. The JV Agreement gave SCY the right to earn a 50% interest in a joint venture with Jervois for the purpose of holding and developing Nyngan, provided SCY met certain technical and financial milestones. SCY met all financial requirements and delivered evidence of technical milestone achievement to Jervois on February 24, 2012. 

On February 27, 2012, Jervois formally rejected SCY&#146;s claim to have met the earn-in conditions specified in the JV. The parties discussed and successfully reached an agreed settlement in February 2013 that resolved all issues in dispute. The terms of the binding settlement provided for the transfer of 100% ownership and control of the Nyngan Project, including the relevant exploration tenements and surface (freehold) land holdings, to the Company, in return for A$2.6 million in future cash payments. The settlement agreement also applied a production royalty on the Nyngan project of 1.7% of sales for products produced from the site, payable to Jervois. The royalty has a 12 year term from first production date, and a 10 tpa scandium oxide production minimum.

In June of 2014 the Company completed all settlement payments required under its agreement with Jervois and formal transfer of the Nyngan Project exploration licenses to SCY&#146;s Australian subsidiary has been completed. 

Business Operations 

Company Summary 

We are a mineral exploration and development company that is focused on the development of scandium, rare earth minerals, and other specialty metals, including nickel, cobalt, boron, manganese, tantalum, titanium and zirconium. We have not commenced development of any of our projects, and as a result we are an exploration stage company. We have not established mineral reserves on any of our projects. 

Our principal project is the Nyngan Scandium Project located in New South Wales, Australia, which we own 80% of the rights to, including exploration licenses. In April of 2014 we also acquired an exploration license referred to as the Honeybugle Scandium property, a prospective scandium exploration property located 24 kilometers from the Nyngan Scandium Project.

We also hold 100% of the T&#248;rdal Scandium/REE property exploration licenses located in Norway.

Corporate Objective and Strategy 

Our corporate focus is to produce and sell scandium (Sc) and scandium-based products. None of our current properties has advanced to the development or production stage and we are currently an exploration stage company. In addition we do not currently have reserves on any of our properties. We have, however, completed an independently prepared preliminary economic assessment of the Nyngan Scandium Project and are conducting additional technical and assessment work for the purpose of preparing a DFS on the development of the scandium resource. Subject to a successful DFS, we intend to develop the Nyngan Scandium Project for production, with a view to supplying anticipated future demand for scandium oxide and scandium-content materials. For further information on the Nyngan Scandium Project, please refer to &#147; Item 3. Properties - Description of Properties &#150; Nyngan Scandium Project&#148; and &#147;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#148;. 

Concurrently with our analysis of the Nyngan Scandium Project, we are developing and testing unique mineral recovery techniques as well as techniques to produce high quality intermediate scandium-content aluminum alloy products. If effective at a commercial level, these mineral recovery techniques, scandia finishing techniques and intermediate product developments are expected to provide increased economic margins and returns on capital on any future scandium production.

Presently our recovery and finishing technology is completed to a degree that it supports engineering and flow sheet design for our +/- 15% DFS, although further development work will continue in both areas. There is no guarantee that we will be able to benefit from the commercial application of such techniques or that we will have scandium production in the future. 

Global Scandium Production and Market 

Scandium is the 31 st most abundant element in the earth&#146;s crust (average 33 ppm), which makes it more common than lead, mercury and precious metals, but less common than copper. Scandium has characteristics that are similar to rare earth elements, and it is often classified as a member of that group, although it is technically a light transition metal. Scandium occurs in nature as an oxide, rarely occurs in concentrated quantities because it does not selectively combine with the common ore-forming anions, and is very difficult to reduce to a pure metal state. Scandium is typically produced and sold as scandium oxide (Sc 2 O 3 ), and is properly known as scandia. 

Global annual production estimates of scandium range from 10 tonnes to 15 tonnes, but accurate statistics are not available due to the lack of public information from countries in which scandium is currently being produced. There are four known production sources globally today: stockpiles from the former Zhovti Voty uranium mine in Ukraine, the rare earth mine at Bayan Obo in China, apatite mines on the Kola Peninsula in Russia, and by-product production from titanium dioxide (TiO 2 ) pigment refiners in China. 

There is no reliable pricing data on global scandium oxide trading. The U.S. Geological Survey (&#147;USGS&#148;) in its latest report (January 2016) documents the 2015 price of scandium oxide (99.99% grade) at US$5,100/kg, essentially the same as their 2014 price estimate. Small quantities of scandium oxide are currently offered on the internet by traders for prices at this level, although product of slightly lower grade is commonly available at lower prices. Scandium oxide grades of 95% or greater are considered commercially suitable, with 99.9% grade used for electrical applications, and grades higher than 99.9% reserved for science and new technical applications. Scandium oxide grades of 95-98% are generally considered suitable for aluminum alloy applications.

Scandium oxide is typically traded in small quantities, between private parties, and pricing is not transparent to other buyers or sellers as there is no clearing facility as is more common with more commonly traded metals and commodities. Prices do vary, based on purity and quantity supplied. Small sale quantities tend to command premium prices, and large quantities (over one tonne) are simply not available to establish appropriate commercial pricing. 

Scandium can also be effectively purchased in form of aluminum-scandium (Al-Sc) master alloy, typically containing 2% scandium by weight. This product is tailored for use in aluminum alloy production containing scandium. The 2016 USGS report indicates the 2015 price for Al-Sc 2% master alloy at US$220/kg. This 2015 price estimate represents a lower estimate than the 2013-2014 USGS average, and one very consistent with the 2011-2012 average.

Principal uses for scandium are in high-strength aluminum alloys, high-intensity metal halide lamps, electronics, and laser research. Recently developed applications include welding wire and fuel cells which are expected to be in future demand. Approximately 15 different commercial aluminum-scandium alloys have been developed, and some of them are used for aerospace applications. In Europe and the U.S., scandium-containing alloys have been evaluated for use in structural parts in commercial airplanes, high stress parts in automobile engines and brake systems, and high tension electrical wires. Military and aerospace applications are known to be of interest, although with less specificity. The combination of high strength and light weight makes aluminum-scandium alloys generally suitable for a number of applications where existing aluminum alloys made with other metals are used today. 

Competitive Conditions 

We compete with numerous other companies and individuals in the search for and the acquisition or control of attractive rare earth and specialty metals mineral properties. Our ability to acquire further properties will depend not only on our ability to operate and develop our properties but also on our ability to select and acquire suitable properties or prospects for development or mineral exploration.

In regards to our plan to produce scandium, there are a limited number of scandium producers presently. If we are successful at becoming a producer of scandium, our ability to be competitive will require that we establish a reliable supply of scandium to the market, delivered at purity levels demanded by various applications, and that our operating costs generate margins at prices that will be set by customers and competitors in a market yet to mature.

Governmental Regulations and Environmental Laws 

The development of any of our properties, and specifically the Nyngan Scandium Project, will require numerous local and national government approvals and environmental permits. For further information about governmental approvals and permitting requirements, please refer to &#147;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#148;. 

Employees 

As at January 1, 2016, we have 4 full and part time employees and 2 individuals working on a consulting basis. Our operations are managed by our officers with input from our directors. We engage geological, metallurgical, and engineering consultants from time to time as required to assist in evaluating our property interests and recommending and conducting work programs.

