 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

We began operations in 1997, and we believe that we are one of the largest operators of both specialty hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics in the United States based on number of facilities. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 127 specialty hospitals in 27 states, and 1,038 outpatient rehabilitation clinics in 31 states and the District of Columbia. Through our contract therapy business we provide medical rehabilitation services on a contracted basis to nursing homes, hospitals, assisted living and senior care centers, schools and work sites. On June 1, 2015, MJ Acquisition Corporation, a joint venture created by Select and Welsh, Carson, Anderson &#38; Stowe XII, L.P. ("WCAS") consummated the acquisition of Concentra, which provides occupational medicine, consumer health, physical therapy, and veteran's healthcare services throughout the United States. As of December 31, 2015, Concentra operated 300 medical centers in 38 states. Concentra also provides contract services at employer worksites and Department of Veterans Affairs community-based outpatient clinics, or "CBOCs." As of December 31, 2015, we had operations in 46 states and the District of Columbia. 

We manage our Company through three business segments; specialty hospitals, outpatient rehabilitation and, as of June 1, 2015, our Concentra segment. We had net operating revenues of $3,742.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. Of this total, we earned approximately 63% of our net operating revenues from our specialty hospitals segment, approximately 22% from our outpatient rehabilitation segment and approximately 15% from our Concentra segment. Our specialty hospitals segment consists of hospitals designed to serve the needs of long term acute patients and hospitals designed to serve patients that require intensive medical rehabilitation care. Our outpatient rehabilitation segment consists of clinics and contract therapy that provide physical, occupational and speech rehabilitation services. Our Concentra segment consists of medical centers and contract services provided at employer worksites and Department of Veterans Affairs CBOCs that deliver occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy and wellness services. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Results of Operations" for financial information for each of our segments for the past three fiscal years. The financial and statstical information related to the operation of our Concentra segment, and used for calculations in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section, which is contained elsewhere herein, began as of June 1, 2015, which is the date the Concentra acquisition was consummated. 

Specialty Hospitals 

We are a leading operator of specialty hospitals in the United States. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 127 facilities throughout 27 states, including 109 long term acute care hospitals, or "LTCHs," 108 of which are currently certified by the federal Medicare program as LTCHs and one which is currently awaiting certification (each new LTCH must demonstrate for a minimum 6-month period that it has an average length of stay of greater than 25 days), and 18 inpatient rehabilitation facilities, or "IRFs," 17 of which are currently certified by the federal Medicare program as IRFs and one which was in the process of obtaining its certification. For the years ended December 31, 2013, December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015, approximately 59%, 57% and 55%, respectively, of the net operating revenues of our specialty hospitals segment came from Medicare reimbursement. As of December 31, 2015, we operated a total of 5,172 available licensed beds and employed approximately 22,100 people in our specialty hospitals segment, consisting primarily of registered nurses, respiratory therapists, physical therapists, occupational therapists and speech therapists. 

We operate the majority of our LTCHs as a hospital within a hospital, or an "HIH." An LTCH that operates as an HIH leases space from a general acute care hospital, or "host hospital," and operates as a separately licensed hospital within the host hospital, or on the same campus as the host hospital. In contrast, a free-standing LTCH does not operate on a host hospital campus. We operated 109 LTCHs at December 31, 2015, of which 108 were owned and one was managed. Of the 108 LTCHs we owned, 80 were operated as HIHs and 28 were operated as free-standing hospitals. 

Patients are typically admitted to our specialty hospitals from general acute care hospitals. These patients have specialized needs, and serious and often complex medical conditions such as respiratory failure, neuromuscular disorders, traumatic brain and spinal cord injuries, strokes, non-healing wounds, cardiac disorders, renal disorders and cancer. Given their complex medical needs, these patients generally require a longer length of stay than patients in a general acute care hospital and benefit from being treated in a specialty hospital that is designed to meet their unique medical needs. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the average length of stay for patients in our specialty hospitals was 27 days in our LTCHs and 14 days in our IRFs. 

Below is a table that shows the distribution by medical condition (based on primary diagnosis) of patients in our specialty hospitals for the year ended December 31, 2015: 

Medical Condition 

&#160; Distribution of Patients &#160; Respiratory disorders &#160; &#160; 35 % Neuromuscular disorders &#160; &#160; 33 % Cardiac disorders &#160; &#160; 10 % Wound care &#160; &#160; 5 % Infectious diseases &#160; &#160; 5 % Other &#160; &#160; 12 % &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Total &#160; &#160; 100 % &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

We believe that our services are attractive to healthcare payors who are seeking to provide the most cost-effective care to their enrollees. Additionally, we continually seek to increase our admissions by demonstrating our quality of care and by doing so expanding and improving our relationships with the 

physicians and general acute care hospitals in the markets where we operate. We maintain a strong focus on the provision of high-quality medical care within our facilities and believe that this operational focus is in part reflected by the accreditation of our specialty hospitals by The Joint Commission, the American Osteopathic Association ("AOA") and the Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities ("CARF"). As of December 31, 2015, all of the 127 specialty hospitals we operated were accredited by one or more of these accrediting organizations. The Joint Commission, the AOA and CARF are independent, not-for-profit organizations that establish standards related to the operation and management of healthcare facilities. Each of our accredited facilities must regularly demonstrate to a survey team conformance to the applicable standards. 

When a patient is referred to one of our specialty hospitals by a physician, case manager, discharge planner, health maintenance organization or insurance company, we perform a clinical assessment of the patient to determine if the patient meets criteria for admission. Based on the determinations reached in this clinical assessment, an admission decision is made. 

Upon admission, an interdisciplinary team reviews a new patient's condition. The interdisciplinary team is comprised of a number of clinicians and may include any or all of the following: an attending physician; a specialty nurse; a physical, occupational or speech therapist; a respiratory therapist; a dietician; a pharmacist; and a case manager. Upon completion of an initial evaluation by each member of the treatment team, an individualized treatment plan is established and implemented. The case manager coordinates all aspects of the patient's hospital stay and serves as a liaison with the insurance carrier's case management staff when appropriate. The case manager communicates progress, resource utilization, and treatment goals between the patient, the treatment team and the payor. 

Each of our specialty hospitals has a multispecialty medical staff that is comprised of physicians that have completed the privileging and credentialing process required by that specialty hospital, and have been approved by the governing board of that specialty hospital. Physicians on the medical staff of our specialty hospitals are generally not directly employed by our specialty hospitals but instead have staff privileges at one or more hospitals. At each of our specialty hospitals, attending physicians conduct rounds on their patients on a regular basis and consulting physicians provide consulting services based on the medical needs of our patients. Our specialty hospitals also have on-call arrangements with physicians to ensure that a physician is available to care for our patients at all times. We staff our specialty hospitals with the number of physicians and other medical practitioners that we believe is appropriate to address the varying needs of our patients. When determining the appropriate composition of the medical staff of a specialty hospital, we consider (1) the size of the specialty hospital, (2) services provided by the specialty hospital, (3) if applicable, the size and capabilities of the medical staff of the general acute care hospital that hosts that HIH, and (4) if applicable, the proximity of an acute care hospital to the free-standing specialty hospital. The medical staff of each of our specialty hospitals meets the applicable requirements set forth by Medicare, the hospital's applicable accrediting organizations, and the state in which that specialty hospital is located. 

Each of our specialty hospitals has an onsite management team consisting of a chief executive officer, a chief nursing officer and a director of business development. These teams manage local strategy and day-to-day operations, including oversight of clinical care and treatment. They also assume primary responsibility for developing relationships with the general acute care providers and clinicians in the local areas we serve that refer patients to our specialty hospitals. We provide our hospitals with centralized accounting, treasury, payroll, legal, operational support, human resources, compliance, management information systems, and billing and collection services. The centralization of these services improves efficiency and permits hospital staff to focus their time on patient care. 

For a description of government regulations and Medicare payments made to our specialty hospitals see "&#151;Government Regulations" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Regulatory Changes." 

Specialty Hospitals Strategy 

The key elements of our specialty hospitals strategy are to: 

Focus on Specialized Inpatient Services. We serve highly acute patients and patients with debilitating injuries and rehabilitation needs that cannot be adequately cared for in a less medically intensive environment, such as a skilled nursing facility. Generally, patients in our specialty hospitals require longer stays and can benefit from more specialized clinical care than patients treated in general acute care hospitals. Our patients' average length of stay in our specialty hospitals was 24 days for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Provide High-Quality Care and Service. Our specialty hospitals serve a critical role in comprehensive healthcare delivery. Through our specialized treatment programs and staffing models, we treat patients with acute, complex and specialized medical needs who are typically referred to us by general acute care hospitals. Our specialized treatment programs focus on specific patient needs and medical conditions such as ventilator weaning programs, wound care protocols and rehabilitation programs for brain trauma and spinal cord injuries. Our responsive staffing models ensure that patients have the appropriate clinical resources over the course of their stay. We maintain quality assurance programs to support and monitor quality of care standards and to meet regulatory requirements and maintain Medicare certifications. We believe that we are recognized for providing quality care and service, as evidenced by our specialty hospitals' accreditations by The Joint Commission, the AOA and CARF. As of December 31, 2015, all of the 127 specialty hospitals we operated were accredited by either The Joint Commission or the AOA. Some of our IRFs had also received accreditation from CARF. See "&#151;Government Regulations&#151;Licensure&#151;Accreditation." We also believe we develop brand loyalty in the local areas we serve by demonstrating our quality of care. 

Our treatment programs, which are continuously reassessed and updated, benefit patients because they give our clinicians access to the best practices and protocols that we have found to be most effective in treating various conditions such as respiratory failure, non-healing wounds, brain and spinal cord injuries, strokes and neuromuscular disorders. In addition, we combine or modify these programs to provide a treatment plan tailored to meet our patients' unique needs. We measure the outcomes and successes of our patients' recovery in order to provide the best possible patient care and service. 

The quality of the patient care we provide is continually monitored using several measures, including clinical outcomes data and analyses and patient satisfaction surveys. Quality measures from our hospitals are collected at our corporate offices and used to create monthly, quarterly and annual reports. In order to benchmark ourselves against other hospitals, we collect our clinical and patient satisfaction information and compare it to national standards and the results of other healthcare organizations. We report to the states in which our hospitals are located certain quality measures that are required to be reported under state laws. We also report to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or "CMS," the quality data required to be reported by specialty hospitals. See "&#151;Government Regulations&#151;Other Medicare Regulations&#151;Medicare Quality Reporting." 

Reduce Operating Costs. We continually seek to improve operating efficiency and reduce costs at our specialty hospitals by standardizing operations and centralizing key administrative functions. These initiatives include: 

&#149; centralizing administrative functions such as accounting, finance, treasury, payroll, legal, operational support, human resources, compliance and billing and collection; &#149; standardizing management information systems to aid in accounting, billing, collections and data capture and analysis; and &#149; centralizing sourcing and contracting to receive discounted prices for pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other commodities used in our operations. 5 

Increase Commercial Volume. We have focused on continued expansion of our relationships with commercial insurers to increase our volume of patients with commercial insurance in our specialty hospitals. We believe that commercial payors seek to contract with our hospitals because we offer our patients high-quality, cost-effective care at more attractive rates than general acute care hospitals. We also offer commercial enrollees customized treatment programs not typically offered in general acute care hospitals. 

Develop Specialty Hospitals. Since our inception in 1997, we have internally developed 73 specialty hospitals, including 68 LTCHs and five IRFs. There is currently a moratorium through September 30, 2017 on the establishment of new LTCHs, LTCH satellite facilities and LTCH beds in existing LTCHs or satellite facilities, see "&#151;Government Regulations&#151;Long Term Acute Care Hospital Medicare Reimbursement&#151;Moratorium on New LTCHs, LTCH Satellite Facilities and LTCH beds." We may open additional LTCHs that met exceptions under the new moratorium and we continue to develop new IRFs through our joint venture relationships. In addition, we are currently pursuing international development opportunities. 

Pursue Joint Ventures with Large Health Care Systems. By leveraging the experience of our senior management and development team, we believe that we are well positioned to expand our portfolio of joint ventured operations. When we identify joint venture opportunities, our development team conducts an extensive review of the area's referral patterns and commercial insurance rates to determine the general reimbursement trends and payor mix. Once discussions commence with a health care system, we refine the specific needs of a joint venture, which could include working capital, the construction of new space or the leasing and renovation of existing space. A joint venture typically consists of us and the health care system contributing certain post acute care businesses into a newly formed entity. We typically function as the manager and hold either a majority or minority ownership interest. We believe we improve the joint venture by bringing clinical expertise, adding clinical programs that attract commercial payors, and implementing our standardized resource management programs, which may increase the financial performance of the joint venture. 

Pursue Opportunistic Acquisitions. In addition to our development and joint venture initiatives, we may grow our network of specialty hospitals through opportunistic acquisitions. When we acquire a hospital or a group of hospitals, a team of our professionals is responsible for formulating and executing an integration plan. We seek to improve financial performance at such facilities by adding clinical programs that attract commercial payors, centralizing administrative functions and implementing our standardized resource management programs. 

Outpatient Rehabilitation 

We believe that we are the largest operator of outpatient rehabilitation clinics in the United States based on number of facilities, with 1,038 facilities throughout 31 states and the District of Columbia as of December 31, 2015. Typically, each of our clinics is located in a medical complex or retail location. We also provide medical rehabilitative services to residents and patients of nursing homes, hospitals, schools, assisted living and senior care centers and worksites. As of December 31, 2015, we provided rehabilitative services to approximately 419 contracted locations in 30 states and the District of Columbia. Our outpatient rehabilitation segment employed approximately 9,600 people as of December 31, 2015. 

In our clinics and through our contractual relationships, we provide physical, occupational and speech rehabilitation programs and services. We also provide certain specialized programs such as functional programs for work related injuries, hand therapy, post-concussion rehabilitation and athletic training services. The typical patient in one of our clinics suffers from musculoskeletal impairments that restrict his or her ability to perform normal activities of daily living. These impairments are often associated with accidents, sports injuries, work related injuries or post-operative orthopedic and other medical conditions. Our rehabilitation programs and services are designed to help these patients minimize physical and 

cognitive impairments and maximize functional ability. We also provide services designed to prevent short term disabilities from becoming chronic conditions. Our rehabilitation services are provided by our professionals including licensed physical therapists, occupational therapists and speech-language pathologists. 

Outpatient rehabilitation patients are generally referred or directed to our clinics by a physician, employer or health insurer who believes that a patient, employee or member can benefit from the level of therapy we provide in an outpatient setting. We believe that our services are attractive to healthcare payors who are seeking to provide a high-quality and cost-effective care to their enrollees. 

In our outpatient rehabilitation segment, approximately 89% of our net operating revenues come from commercial payors, including healthcare insurers, managed care organizations and workers' compensation programs, contract management services and private pay sources. The balance of our reimbursement is derived from Medicare and other government sponsored programs. 

For a description of government regulations and Medicare payments made to our outpatient rehabilitation services see "&#151;Government Regulations" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Regulatory Changes." 

Outpatient Rehabilitation Strategy 

The key elements of our outpatient rehabilitation strategy are to: 

Provide High-Quality Care and Service. We are focused on providing a high level of service to our patients throughout their entire course of treatment. To measure satisfaction with our service we have developed surveys for both patients and physicians. Our clinics utilize the feedback from these surveys to continuously refine and improve service levels. We believe that by focusing on quality care and offering a high level of customer service we develop brand loyalty in the local areas we serve. This high quality of care and service allows us to strengthen our relationships with referring physicians, employers and health insurers and drive additional patient volume. 

Increase Market Share. We strive to establish a leading presence within the local areas we serve. To increase our presence, we seek to expand our services and programs and to open new clinics in our existing markets. This allows us to realize economies of scale, heightened brand loyalty and workforce continuity. We are focused on increasing our workers' compensation and commercial/managed care payor mix. 

Expand Rehabilitation Programs and Services. Through our local clinical directors of operations and clinic managers within their service areas, we assess the healthcare needs of the areas we serve. Based on these assessments, we implement additional programs and services specifically targeted to meet demand in the local community. In designing these programs we benefit from the knowledge we gain through our national network of clinics. This knowledge is used to design programs that optimize treatment methods and measure changes in health status, clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction. 

Optimize the Profitability of our Payor Contracts. We review payor contracts up for renewal and potential new payor contracts to optimize our profitability. Before we enter into a new contract with a commercial payor, we evaluate it with the aid of our contract management system. We assess potential profitability by evaluating past and projected patient volume, clinic capacity, and expense trends. We create a retention strategy for the top performing contracts and a renegotiation strategy for contracts that do not meet our defined criteria. We believe that our national footprint and our strong reputation enable us to negotiate favorable outpatient contracts with commercial insurers. 

Maintain Strong Employee Relations. We believe that the relationships between our employees and the referral sources in their communities are critical to our success. Our referral sources, such as physicians and healthcare case managers, send their patients to our clinics based on three factors: the quality of our care, the service we provide and their familiarity with our therapists. We seek to retain and motivate our 

therapists by implementing a performance-based bonus program, a defined career path with the ability to be promoted from within, timely communication on company developments and internal training programs. We also focus on empowering our employees by giving them a high degree of autonomy in determining local area strategy. We seek to identify therapists who are potential business leaders. This management approach reflects the unique nature of each local area in which we operate and the importance of encouraging our employees to assume responsibility for their clinic's performance. 

Pursue Opportunistic Acquisitions. We may grow our network of outpatient rehabilitation facilities through opportunistic acquisitions. We believe our size and centralized infrastructure allow us to take advantage of operational efficiencies and increase margins at acquired facilities. 

Concentra 

We believe that we are the largest provider of occupational health services in the United States based on the number of facilities. We also believe we are the largest private operator of Veterans Administration CBOCs. As of December 31, 2015 we operated 300 medical centers, 138 onsite clinics at employer worksites and 33 CBOCs throughout 43 states. We deliver occupational medicine, consumer health, physical therapy, and veteran's healthcare services in our medical centers, onsite clinics located at the workplaces of our employer customers and our CBOCs. Our Concentra segment employed approximately 8,200 people as of December 31, 2015. 

We offer a range of occupational and consumer health services through our medical centers and onsite clinics. Occupational health services include workers' compensation injury care as well as employer services, clinical testing, wellness programs and preventative care. Consumer health consists of non-employer, patient-directed treatment of injuries and illnesses. Our consumer service offerings include urgent care, wellness programs and preventative care. Our services at the CBOCs include primary care, specialty care, subspecialty care, mental health, and pharmacy benefits. 

Occupational medicine refers to the diagnosis and treatment of work-related injuries (workers' compensation) and preventive and compliance services, including pre-employment, fitness for duty, and post-accident physical examinations and substance abuse screening. Utilization is driven by the needs of labor-intensive industries such as transportation, distribution/warehousing, manufacturing, construction, health care, police/fire and other occupations that have historically posed a higher than average risk of workplace injury or that require a workplace physical. Workers' compensation is the form of insurance that provides medical coverage to employees with work-related illnesses or injuries. 

Workers' compensation is administered on a state-by-state basis and each state is responsible for implementing and regulating its own workers' compensation program. Because workers' compensation benefits are mandated by law and subject to extensive regulation, insurers, third-party administrators and employers do not have the same flexibility to alter benefits as they have with other health benefit programs. In addition, because programs vary by state, it is difficult for insurance companies and multi-state employers to adopt uniform policies to administer, manage and control the costs of benefits across states. As a result, managing the cost of workers' compensation requires approaches that are tailored to the specific regulatory environments in which the employer operates. For the year ended December 31, 2015, approximately 52% of our Concentra segment operating revenues came from workers' compensation. 

In Concentra's occupational health services business, patient bookings and revenues are typically lower in the quarter ended December 31 compared to the other quarters. We believe that decreased patient bookings are caused by fewer work-related injuries and illnesses during the quarter due to our customer's employees being on vacation and our customer's facilities being closed for the holidays. 

Concentra Strategy 

The key elements of our Concentra strategy are to: 

Provide High-Quality Care and Service. We strive to provide a high level of service to our patients and our employer customers. We measure and monitor patient and employer satisfaction and focus on treatment programs to provide the best clinical outcomes in a consistent manner. Our programs and services have proven that aggressive treatment and management of workers injuries can more rapidly restore employees to better health which reduces workers' compensation indemnity claim costs for our employer customers. 

Focus on Occupational Medicine. Our history as an industry leader in the provision of occupational medicine services provides the platform for Concentra to grow this service offering. Complementary service offerings within occupational medicine will help secure additional growth in this business line. 

Pursue Direct Employer Relationships. We believe we provide occupational health services in a cost effective manner to our employer customers. By establishing direct relationships with these customers we seek to reduce overall costs of their workers' compensation claims, while improving employee health and getting their employees back to work faster. 

Increase Market Share. We strive to establish a leading presence within the local areas we serve. To increase our presence, we seek to expand our services and programs and to open new medical centers and employer onsite locations in our existing markets. This allows us to realize economies of scale, heightened brand loyalty and workforce continuity. 

Pursue Opportunistic Acquisitions. We may grow our network of Concentra medical centers and expand our geographic reach through opportunistic acquisitions. We believe our size and centralized infrastructure allow us to take advantage of operational efficiencies and increase margins at acquired facilities. 

Other 

Other activities include our corporate services and certain other minority investments in other healthcare related businesses. These include investments in companies that provide specialized technology, services to healthcare entities and providers of complementary services. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe that the success of our business model is based on a number of competitive strengths, including our position as a leading operator in each of our business segments, proven financial performance and strong cash flow, significant scale, experience in completing and integrating acquisitions, ability to capitalize on consolidation opportunities and an experienced management team. 

Leading Operator in Distinct but Complementary Lines of Business. We believe that we are a leading operator in each of our business segments, based on number of facilities in the United States. Our leadership position and reputation as a high-quality, cost-effective healthcare provider in each of our business segments allows us to attract patients and employees, aids us in our marketing efforts to payors and referral sources and helps us negotiate payor contracts. In our specialty hospitals segment, we operated 109 LTCHs in 27 states and 18 IRFs in eight states at December 31, 2015. We derived approximately 63% of net operating revenues from our specialty hospitals segment, for the year ended December 31, 2015. In our outpatient rehabilitation segment, we operated 1,038 outpatient rehabilitation clinics in 31 states and the District of Columbia at December 31, 2015. We derived approximately 22% of net operating revenues from our outpatient rehabilitation segment for the year ended December 31, 2015. In our Concentra segment, we operated 300 medical centers in 38 states at December 31, 2015. We derived 

approximately 15% of net operating revenues from our Concentra segment. With these leading positions in the areas we serve, we believe that we are well-positioned to benefit from the rising demand for medical services due to an aging population in the United States, which will drive growth across our business lines. 

Proven Financial Performance and Strong Cash Flow. We have established a track record of improving the financial performance of our facilities due to our disciplined approach to revenue growth, expense management and an intense focus on free cash flow generation. This includes regular review of specific financial metrics of our business to determine trends in our revenue generation, expenses, billing and cash collection. Based on the ongoing analysis of such trends, we make adjustments to our operations to optimize our financial performance and cash flow. 

Significant Scale. By building significant scale in each of our business segments, we have been able to leverage our operating costs by centralizing administrative functions at our corporate office. 

Experience in Successfully Completing and Integrating Acquisitions. From our inception in 1997 through 2015, we completed eight significant acquisitions for approximately $2.15 billion, which includes $1.05 billion paid to acquire Concentra. We believe that we have improved the operating performance of these facilities over time by applying our standard operating practices and by realizing efficiencies from our centralized operations and management. 

Experience in Partnering with Large Health Care Systems. Over the past several years we have partnered with large health care systems to provide post-acute care services. We believe that we provide operating expertise through our experience in operating specialty hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation services to these ventures and have improved and expanded the level of post-acute care services provided in these communities, as well as the financial performance of these operations. 

Well-Positioned to Capitalize on Consolidation Opportunities. We believe that we are well-positioned to capitalize on consolidation opportunities within each of our business segments and selectively augment our internal growth. We believe that each of our business segments is fragmented, with many of the nation's LTCHs, IRFs and outpatient rehabilitation facilities being operated by independent operators lacking national or broad regional scope. With our geographically diversified portfolio of facilities in the United States, we believe that our footprint provides us with a wide-ranging perspective on multiple potential acquisition opportunities. 

Experienced and Proven Management Team. Prior to co-founding our company with our current Executive Chairman and Co-Founder, our Vice Chairman and Co-Founder founded and operated three other healthcare companies focused on inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation services. In addition, our senior management team has extensive experience in the healthcare industry. Our President and Chief Executive Officer has more than two decades of management experience in the healthcare industry. Many of our other executives, such as our Chief Financial Officer, our General Counsel, our Chief Human Resources Officer and our Chief Accounting Officer, have each served at our company for more than 15 years. In recent years, we have reorganized our operations to expand executive talent and ensure management continuity. 

Sources of Net Operating Revenues 

The following table presents the approximate percentages by source of net operating revenue received for healthcare services we provided for the periods indicated: 

&#160; &#160; Year Ended December 31, &#160; Net Operating Revenues by Payor Source 

&#160; 2013 &#160; 2014 &#160; 2015 &#160; Medicare &#160; &#160; 45.9 % &#160; 44.5 % &#160; 36.5 % Commercial insurance (1) &#160; &#160; 36.1 % &#160; 37.3 % &#160; 34.1 % Workers' Compensation &#160; &#160; 5.6 % &#160; 5.4 % &#160; 12.6 % Private and other (2) &#160; &#160; 8.6 % &#160; 8.8 % &#160; 12.8 % Medicaid &#160; &#160; 3.8 % &#160; 4.0 % &#160; 4.0 % &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Total &#160; &#160; 100.0 % &#160; 100.0 % &#160; 100.0 % &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

(1) Includes commercial healthcare insurance carriers, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and managed care programs. (2) Includes self-payors, management services and non-patient related payments. Self-pay revenues represent less than 1% of total net operating revenues for all periods. 

Government Sources 

Medicare is a federal program that provides medical insurance benefits to persons age 65 and over, some disabled persons, and persons with end-stage renal disease. Medicaid is a federal-state funded program, administered by the states, which provides medical benefits to individuals who are unable to afford healthcare. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 127 specialty hospitals, 126 of which were certified as Medicare providers and one which was in the process of obtaining its certification. Our outpatient rehabilitation clinics regularly receive Medicare payments for their services. Additionally, many of our specialty hospitals participate in state Medicaid programs. Amounts received under the Medicare and Medicaid programs are generally less than the customary charges for the services provided. In recent years there have been significant changes made to the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Since a significant portion of our revenues come from patients under the Medicare program, our ability to operate our business successfully in the future will depend in large measure on our ability to adapt to changes in the Medicare program. See "&#151;Government Regulations&#151;Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements." 

Non-Government Sources 

Our non-government sources of net operating revenue include insurance companies, workers' compensation programs, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, other managed care companies and employers, as well as by patients directly. Patients are generally not responsible for any difference between customary charges for our services and amounts paid by Medicare and Medicaid programs, insurance companies, workers' compensation programs, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and other managed care companies, but are responsible for services not covered by these programs or plans, as well as for deductibles and co-insurance obligations of their coverage. The amount of these deductibles and co-insurance obligations has increased in recent years. Collection of amounts due from individuals is typically more difficult than collection of amounts due from government or commercial payors. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 41,000 people throughout the United States. Approximately 28,400 of our employees are full time and the remaining approximately 12,600 are part-time employees. Our specialty hospitals segment employees totaled approximately 22,100, outpatient rehabilitation segment employees totaled approximately 9,600 and Concentra segment employees totaled approximately 8,200. The remaining approximately 1,100 employees performed corporate management, administration and other support services primarily at our Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania headquarters. 

Competition 

We compete on the basis of the quality of the patient services we provide, the results that we achieve for our patients and the prices we charge for our services. The primary competitive factors in the specialty hospitals business include quality of services, charges for services and responsiveness to the needs of patients, families, payors and physicians. Other companies operate specialty hospitals that compete with our hospitals, including large operators of similar facilities, such as Kindred Healthcare Inc. and HealthSouth Corporation and rehabilitation units and stepdown units operated by acute care hospitals in the markets we serve. The competitive position of any hospital is also affected by the ability of its management to negotiate contracts with purchasers of group healthcare services, including private employers, managed care companies, preferred provider organizations and health maintenance organizations. Such organizations attempt to obtain discounts from established hospital charges. The importance of obtaining contracts with preferred provider organizations, health maintenance organizations and other organizations which finance healthcare, and its effect on a hospital's competitive position, vary from area to area, depending on the number and strength of such organizations. 

Our outpatient rehabilitation clinics face a highly fragmented and competitive environment. The primary competitors that provide outpatient rehabilitation services include physician-owned physical therapy clinics, dedicated locally owned and managed outpatient rehabilitation clinics and hospital or university owned or affiliated ventures, as well as national and regional providers in select areas, including Athletico Physical Therapy, ATI Physical Therapy, Drayer Physical Therapy Institute, Physiotherapy Associates, U.S. Physical Therapy and Upstream Physical Therapy. Some of these competing clinics have longer operating histories and greater name recognition in these communities than our clinics, and they may have stronger relations with physicians in these communities on whom we rely for patient referrals. Because the barriers to entry are not substantial and current customers have the flexibility to move easily to new healthcare service providers, we believe that new outpatient physical therapy competitors can emerge relatively quickly. 

Our Concentra segment's occupational health services, consumer health and veteran's healthcare business face a highly fragmented and competitive environment. The primary competitors that provide occupational health services have typically been independent physicians, hospital emergency departments, and hospital-owned or hospital-affiliated medical facilities. Because the barriers to entry are not substantial and its current customers have the flexibility to move easily to new healthcare service providers, we believe that new competitors to Concentra can emerge relatively quickly. Furthermore, urgent care clinics in the local communities Concentra serves provide services similar to those Concentra offers, and, in some cases, competing facilities (1) are more established or newer than Concentra's, (2) may offer a broader array of services to patients than Concentra's and (3) may have larger or more specialized medical staffs to treat and serve patients. In the future, Concentra expects to encounter increased competition from hospital owned clinics, payor affiliated clinics, retail pharmacy-owned clinics, and healthcare companies. 

Government Regulations 

General 

The healthcare industry is required to comply with many complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations require that hospitals and facilities furnishing outpatient services (including outpatient rehabilitation clinics, Concentra medical centers, onsite clinics and CBOCs) comply with various requirements and standards. These laws and regulations include those relating to the adequacy of medical care, facilities and equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures and recordkeeping as well as standards for reimbursement, fraud and abuse prevention and health information privacy and security. These laws and regulations are extremely complex, often overlap and, in many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate and our ability to participate in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. 

Facility Licensure 

Our healthcare facilities are subject to state and local licensing statutes and regulations ranging from the adequacy of medical care to compliance with building codes and environmental protection laws. In order to assure continued compliance with these various regulations, governmental and other authorities periodically inspect our facilities, both at scheduled intervals and in response to complaints from patients and others. While our facilities intend to comply with existing licensing standards, there can be no assurance that regulatory authorities will determine that all applicable requirements are fully met at any given time. In addition, the state and local licensing laws are subject to changes or new interpretations that could impose additional burdens on our facilities. A determination by an applicable regulatory authority that a facility is not in compliance with these requirements could lead to the imposition of corrective action, assessment of fines and penalties, or loss of licensure, Medicare enrollment or certification or accreditation. These consequences could have an adverse effect on our company. 

Some states still require us to get approval under certificate of need regulations when we create, acquire or expand our facilities or services, or alter the ownership of such facilities, whether directly or indirectly. The certificate of need regulations vary from state to state, and are subject to change and new interpretation. If we fail to show public need and obtain approval in these states for our new facilities or changes to the ownership structure of existing facilities, we may be subject to civil or even criminal penalties, lose our facility license or become ineligible for reimbursement. 

Professional Licensure, Corporate Practice and Fee-Splitting Laws 

Healthcare professionals at our specialty hospitals and facilities furnishing outpatient services are required to be individually licensed or certified under applicable state law. We take steps to ensure that our employees and agents possess all necessary licenses and certifications. 

Some states prohibit the "corporate practice of medicine," which restricts business corporations from practicing medicine through the direct employment of physicians or from exercising control over medical decisions by physicians. Some states similarly prohibit the "corporate practice of therapy." The laws relating to corporate practice vary from state to state and are not fully developed in each state in which we have facilities. Typically, however, professional corporations owned and controlled by licensed professionals are exempt from corporate practice restrictions and may employ physicians or therapists to furnish professional services. Also, in some states hospitals are permitted to employ physicians. 

Some states also prohibit entities from engaging in certain financial arrangements, such as fee-splitting, with physicians or therapists. The laws relating to fee-splitting also vary from state to state and are not fully developed. Generally, these laws restrict business arrangements that involve a physician 

or therapist sharing medical fees with a referral source, but in some states these laws have been interpreted to extend to management agreements between physicians or therapists and business entities under some circumstances. 

We believe that each of our facilities complies with any current corporate practice and fee-splitting laws of the state in which it is located. In states where we are prohibited by the corporate practice of medicine from directly employing licensed physicians, we typically enter into management agreements with professional corporations that are owned by licensed physicians, which, in turn, employ or contract with physicians who provide professional medical services in our facilities. Under those management agreements, we perform only non-medical administrative services, do not exercise control over the practice of medicine by the physicians, and structure compensation to avoid fee-splitting. In those states that apply the corporate practice of therapy prohibition, we either contract to obtain therapy services from an entity permitted to employ therapists or we manage the physical therapy practice owned by licensed therapists through which the therapy services are provided. 

Although we believe that our facilities comply with corporate practice and fee-splitting laws, if new regulations or judicial or administrative interpretations establish that our facilities do not comply with these laws, we could be subject to civil and perhaps criminal penalties. In addition, if any of our facilities is determined not to comply with corporate practice and fee-splitting laws, certain of our agreements relating to the facility may be determined to be unenforceable, including our management agreements with the professional corporations furnishing physician services or our payment arrangements with insurers or employers. Future interpretations of corporate practice and fee-splitting laws, the enactment of new legislation or the adoption of new regulations relating to these laws could cause us to have to restructure our business operations or close our facilities in a particular state. Any such penalties, determinations of unenforceability or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Medicare Enrollment and Certification 

In order to participate in the Medicare program and receive Medicare reimbursement, each facility must comply with the applicable regulations of the United States Department of Health and Human Services relating to, among other things, the type of facility, its equipment, its personnel and its standards of medical care, as well as compliance with all applicable state and local laws and regulations. As of December 31, 2015, 126 of the 127 specialty hospitals we operated were certified as Medicare providers and one was in the process of obtaining its certification. In addition, we provide the majority of our outpatient rehabilitation services through outpatient rehabilitation clinics certified by Medicare as rehabilitation agencies or "rehab agencies." Our Concentra medical centers furnishing outpatient services are generally enrolled in Medicare as suppliers. 

Accreditation 

Our specialty hospitals receive accreditation from The Joint Commission, the AOA, CARF and/or other healthcare accrediting organizations. As of December 31, 2015, all of the 127 specialty hospitals we operated were accredited by either The Joint Commission or the AOA. In addition, some of our IRFs have also applied for and received accreditation from CARF. Where required under our contracts with the Department of Veterans Affairs, our facilities furnishing outpatient services that operate as CBOCs are accredited by The Joint Commission or another healthcare accrediting organization. See "&#151;Government Regulations&#151;Veterans Affairs." 

Workers' Compensation 

Workers' compensation is a state mandated, comprehensive insurance program that requires employers to fund or insure medical expenses, lost wages and other costs resulting from work related injuries and illnesses. Workers' compensation benefits and arrangements vary from state to state, and are 

often highly complex. In some states, payment for services covered by workers' compensation programs are subject to cost containment features, such as requirements that all workers' compensation injuries be treated through a managed care program, or the imposition of fee schedules or payment caps for services furnished to injured employees. Some state workers' compensation laws limit the ability of an employer to select the providers furnishing care to injured employees. Several states require that physicians furnishing non-emergency services to workers' compensation patients must register with the applicable state agency and undergo special continuing education and training. Workers' compensation programs may also impose other requirements that affect the operations of our facilities furnishing outpatient services. Net operating revenues generated directly from workers' compensation programs represented approximately 17% of our net operating revenue from outpatient rehabilitation services, 1% of our net operating revenue from our specialty hospitals and 52% of our net operating revenue from our Concentra segment for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Our facilities furnishing outpatient services are reimbursed for services furnished to injured workers by payors pursuant to the applicable state workers' compensation statutes. Most of the states in which we maintain operations reimburse providers for services payable under workers' compensation laws pursuant to a treatment-specific fee schedule with established maximum reimbursement levels. In states without such fee schedules, healthcare providers are often reimbursed based on "usual and customary" fees benchmarked by market data and negotiated by providers with payors and networks. 

Inadequate increases to the applicable fee schedule amounts for our services, and changes in state workers' compensation laws, including cost containment initiatives, could have a negative impact on the operations and financial performance of those facilities. 

Veterans Affairs 

The Veterans Affairs health system is the largest integrated healthcare system in the U.S. and includes over 150 hospitals, 800 CBOCs (of which only 166 are operated by contractors) and 260 veterans medical centers. As of December 31, 2015, we had 33 CBOCs, which were established to provide services to veterans residing in catchment areas under agreements with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The awarding of such agreements is regulated by laws related to federal government procurements generally, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations. Our contracts with the Department of Veterans Affairs include administrative and clinical services, performance standards, qualifications and other contractor requirements and information and security requirements. In general, our facilities furnishing outpatient services that are CBOCs provide outpatient primary care in exchange for a capitated monthly fee based on the number of eligible patients then enrolled in that CBOC. 

Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements 

Medicare Program in General 

The Medicare program reimburses healthcare providers for services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries, which are generally persons age 65 and older, those who are chronically disabled, and those suffering from end stage renal disease. The program is governed by the Social Security Act of 1965 and is administered primarily by the Department of Health and Human Services and CMS. Net operating revenues generated directly from the Medicare program represented approximately 46% for the year ended December 31, 2013, 45% for the year ended December 31, 2014 and 37% for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

The Medicare program reimburses various types of providers, including LTCHs, IRFs and outpatient rehabilitation providers, using different payment methodologies. The Medicare reimbursement systems specific to LTCHs, IRFs and outpatient rehabilitation providers, as described below, are different than the system applicable to general acute care hospitals. If any of our hospitals fail to comply with requirements 

for payment under Medicare reimbursement systems for LTCHs or IRFs, as applicable, that hospital will be paid under the system applicable to general acute care hospitals. For general acute care hospitals, Medicare payments for inpatient care are made under the inpatient prospective payment system, or "IPPS," under which a hospital receives a fixed payment amount per discharge (adjusted for area wage differences) using Medicare severity diagnosis-related groups, or "MS-DRGs." The general acute care hospital MS-DRG payment rate is based upon the national average cost of treating a Medicare patient's condition, based on severity levels of illness, in that type of facility. Although the average length of stay varies for each MS-DRG, the average stay of all Medicare patients in a general acute care hospital is substantially less than the average length of stay in LTCHs and IRFs. Thus, the prospective payment system for general acute care hospitals creates an economic incentive for those hospitals to discharge medically complex Medicare patients to a post-acute care setting as soon as clinically possible. Effective October 1, 2005, CMS expanded its post-acute care transfer policy under which general acute care hospitals are paid on a per diem basis rather than the full MS-DRG rate if a patient is discharged early to certain post-acute care settings, including LTCHs and IRFs. When a patient is discharged from selected MS-DRGs to, among other providers, an LTCH or IRF, the general acute care hospital may be reimbursed below the full MS-DRG payment if the patient's length of stay is less than the geometric mean length of stay for the MS-DRG. 

The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, enacted on April 16, 2015, reforms Medicare payment policy for services paid under the Medicare physician fee schedule, including our outpatient rehabilitation services. The law repeals the sustainable growth rate (the "SGR") formula effective January 1, 2015, and establishes a new payment framework consisting of specified updates to the Medicare physician fee schedule, a new Merit-Based Incentive Payment System ("MIPS"), and incentives for participation in alternative payment models ("APMs"). To finance these provisions, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 reduces market basket updates for post-acute care providers, including LTCHs and IRFs, among other Medicare payment cuts. As noted below, the law sets the annual prospective payment system update for fiscal year 2018 at 1% for LTCHs and IRFs, as well as skilled nursing facilities, home health agencies, and hospices. The law also extends the exceptions process for outpatient therapy caps through December 31, 2017. 

Long Term Acute Care Hospital Medicare Reimbursement 

The Medicare payment system for LTCHs is based on a prospective payment system specifically applicable to LTCHs. The long term care hospital prospective payment system, or "LTCH-PPS," was established by CMS final regulations published on August 30, 2002, and applies to LTCHs for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002. The policies and payment rates under LTCH-PPS are subject to annual updates and revisions. Under LTCH-PPS, each patient discharged from an LTCH is assigned to a distinct "MS-LTC-DRG," which is a Medicare severity diagnosis-related group for LTCHs, and an LTCH is generally paid a pre-determined fixed amount applicable to the assigned MS-LTC-DRG (adjusted for area wage differences), subject to exceptions for short stay and high cost outlier patients (described below). CMS assigns relative weights to each MS-LTC-DRG to reflect their relative use of medical care resources. The payment amount for each MS-LTC-DRG is intended to reflect the average cost of treating a Medicare patient assigned to that MS-LTC-DRG in an LTCH. 

Standard Federal Rate 

Payment under the LTCH-PPS is dependent on determining the patient classification, that is, the assignment of the case to a particular MS-LTC-DRG, the weight of the MS-LTC-DRG and the standard federal payment rate. There is a single standard federal rate that encompasses both the inpatient operating costs, which includes a labor and non-labor component, and capital-related costs that CMS updates on an annual basis. LTCH-PPS also includes special payment policies that adjust the payments for some patients 

based on the patient's length of stay, the facility's costs, whether the patient was discharged and readmitted and other factors. 

Patient Criteria 

The BBA of 2013, enacted December 26, 2013, establishes new payment limits for Medicare patients discharged from an LTCH who do not meet specified criteria. Specifically, for Medicare patients discharged in cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2015, LTCHs will be reimbursed under LTCH-PPS only if, immediately preceding the patient's LTCH admission, the patient was discharged from a general acute care hospital paid under IPPS and the patient's stay included at least three days in an intensive care unit (ICU) or coronary care unit (CCU) or the patient is assigned to an MS-LTC-DRG for cases receiving at least 96 hours of ventilator services in the LTCH. In addition, to be paid under LTCH-PPS the patient's discharge from the LTCH may not include a principal diagnosis relating to psychiatric or rehabilitation services. For any Medicare patient who does not meet the new criteria, the LTCH will be paid a lower "site-neutral" payment rate, which will be the lower of (1) the IPPS comparable per-diem payment rate capped at the MS-DRG including any outlier payments, or (2) 100 percent of the estimated costs for services. 

The BBA of 2013 provides for a transition to the site-neutral payment rate for those patients not paid under LTCH-PPS. During the transition period (cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2017), a blended rate will be paid for Medicare patients not meeting the new criteria. The blended rate will comprise half the site-neutral payment rate and half the LTCH-PPS payment rate. For discharges in cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2017, only the site-neutral payment rate will apply for Medicare patients not meeting the new criteria. 

In addition, for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2019, qualifying discharges from an LTCH will continue to be paid at the LTCH-PPS payment rate, unless the number of discharges for which payment is made under the site-neutral payment rate is greater than 50% of the total number of discharges from the LTCH. If the number of discharges for which payment is made under the site-neutral payment rate is greater than 50%, then beginning in the next cost reporting period all discharges from the LTCH will be reimbursed at the site-neutral payment rate. The BBA of 2013 requires CMS to establish a process for an LTCH subject to the site-neutral payment rate to re-qualify for payment under LTCH-PPS. 

Payment adjustments, including the interrupted stay policy and the 25 Percent Rule (discussed below), apply to LTCH discharges regardless of whether the case is paid at the LTCH-PPS payment rate or the site-neutral payment rate. However, short stay outlier payment adjustments do not apply to cases paid at the site-neutral payment rate. Beginning with fiscal year 2016, CMS will calculate the annual recalibration of the MS-LTC-DRG relative payment weighting factors using only data from LTCH discharges that meet the criteria for exclusion from the site-neutral payment rate. In addition, beginning in fiscal year 2016, CMS will apply the IPPS fixed-loss amount to site-neutral cases, rather than the LTCH PPS fixed-loss amount. For fiscal year 2016, the IPPS fixed-loss amount is set at $22,544 and the LTCH-PPS fixed-loss amount is estimated to be $16,423. CMS will calculate the LTCH-PPS fixed-loss amount using only data from cases paid at the LTCH-PPS payment rate, excluding cases paid at the site-neutral rate. 

Each of our LTCHs has their own unique annual cost reporting period. As a result, the new payment limits will become effective for each of our LTCHs at different points in time over a twelve month period beginning on October 1, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, 16 of our LTCHs have cost reporting periods that began during the fourth quarter of 2015 and 37, 19 and 36 of our LTCHs have cost reporting periods commencing during the first quarter, second quarter and third quarters of 2016, respectively. 

Short Stay Outlier Policy 

CMS established a different payment methodology for Medicare patients with a length of stay less than or equal to five-sixths of the geometric average length of stay for that particular MS-LTC-DRG, referred to as a short stay outlier, or "SSO." SSO cases are paid based on the lesser of (1) 100% of the average cost of the case, (2) 120% of the MS-LTC-DRG specific per diem amount multiplied by the patient's length of stay, (3) the full MS-LTC-DRG payment, or (4) a per diem rate derived from blending 120% of the MS-LTC-DRG specific per diem amount with a per diem rate based on the general acute care hospital IPPS. 

The SSO rule also has a category referred to as a "very short stay outlier," which applies to cases with a length of stay that is less than the average length of stay plus one standard deviation for the same MS-DRG under IPPS, referred to as the so-called "IPPS comparable threshold." The LTCH payment for very short stay outlier cases is equivalent to the general acute care hospital IPPS per diem rate. The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007, or the "SCHIP Extension Act," as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, or the "ARRA," and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or the "ACA," prevented CMS from applying the very short stay outlier policy during the period from December 29, 2007 through December 28, 2012. The very short stay outlier policy again became applicable to discharges occurring on or after December 29, 2012. 

High Cost Outliers 

Some cases are extraordinarily costly, producing losses that may be too large for hospitals to offset. Cases with unusually high costs, referred to as "high cost outliers," receive a payment adjustment to reflect the additional resources utilized. CMS provides an additional payment if the estimated costs for the patient exceed the adjusted MS-LTC-DRG payment plus a fixed-loss amount that is established in the annual payment rate update. 

Interrupted stays 

An interrupted stay is defined as a case in which an LTCH patient, upon discharge, is admitted to a general acute care hospital, IRF or skilled nursing facility/swing-bed and then returns to the same LTCH within a specified period of time. If the length of stay at the receiving provider is equal to or less than the applicable fixed period of time, it is considered to be an interrupted stay case and the case is treated as a single discharge for the purposes of payment to the LTCH. 

Freestanding, HIH and Satellite LTCHs 

LTCHs may be organized and operated as freestanding facilities or as HIHs. As its name suggests, a freestanding LTCH is not located on the campus of another hospital. For such purpose, "campus" means the physical area immediately adjacent to a hospital's main buildings, other areas and structures that are not strictly contiguous to a hospital's main buildings but are located within 250 yards of its main buildings, and any other areas determined, on an individual case basis by the applicable CMS regional office, to be part of a hospital's campus. Conversely, an HIH is an LTCH that is located on the campus of another hospital. An LTCH, whether freestanding or an HIH, that uses the same Medicare provider number of an affiliated "primary site" LTCH is known as a "satellite." Under Medicare policy, a satellite LTCH must be located within 35 miles of its primary site LTCH and be administered by such primary site LTCH. A primary site LTCH may have more than one satellite LTCH. CMS sometimes refers to a satellite LTCH that is freestanding as a "remote location." 

Facility Certification Criteria 

The LTCH-PPS regulations define the criteria that must be met in order for a hospital to be certified as an LTCH. To be eligible for payment under the LTCH-PPS, a hospital must be primarily engaged in 

providing inpatient services to Medicare beneficiaries with medically complex conditions that require a long hospital stay. In addition, by definition, LTCHs must meet certain facility criteria, including (1) instituting a review process that screens patients for appropriateness of an admission and validates the patient criteria within 48 hours of each patient's admission, evaluates regularly their patients for continuation of care and assesses the available discharge options, (2) having active physician involvement with patient care that includes a physician available on-site daily and additional consulting physicians on call, and (3) having an interdisciplinary team of healthcare professionals to prepare and carry out an individualized treatment plan for each patient. 

An LTCH must have an average inpatient length of stay for Medicare patients (including both Medicare covered and non-covered days and Medicare Advantage Days) of greater than 25 days. LTCHs that fail to exceed an average length of stay of 25 days during any cost reporting period may be paid under the general acute care hospital IPPS if not corrected within established timeframes. CMS, through its contractors, determines whether an LTCH has maintained an average length of stay of greater than 25 days during each annual cost reporting period. Under the BBA of 2013, for discharges occurring in cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2015, LTCH cases paid at the site-neutral rate and Medicare Advantage cases are excluded from the LTCH average length of stay calculation. 

Prior to qualifying under the payment system applicable to LTCHs, a new LTCH initially receives payments under the general acute care hospital IPPS. The LTCH must continue to be paid under this system for a minimum of six months while meeting certain Medicare LTCH requirements, the most significant requirement being an average length of stay for Medicare patients (including both Medicare covered and non-covered days) greater than 25 days. 

25 Percent Rule 

The "25 Percent Rule" is a downward payment adjustment that applies if the percentage of Medicare patients discharged from LTCHs who were admitted from a referring hospital (regardless of whether the LTCH or LTCH satellite is co-located with the referring hospital) exceeds the applicable percentage admissions threshold during a particular cost reporting period. Specifically, the payment rate for Medicare patients above the percentage admissions threshold are subject to a downward payment adjustment. For Medicare patients above the applicable percentage admissions threshold, the LTCH is reimbursed at a rate comparable to that under general acute care hospital IPPS, which is generally lower than LTCH-PPS rates. Cases that reach outlier status in the referring hospital do not count toward the admissions threshold and are paid under LTCH-PPS. 

The SCHIP Extension Act, as amended by the ARRA and the ACA, has limited the full application of the 25 Percent Rule. However, the SCHIP Extension Act did not postpone the application of the percentage admissions threshold to those Medicare patients discharged from an LTCH HIH or satellite that were admitted from a non-co-located hospital. In addition, CMS adopted regulations providing for a one-year extension of relief from the full application of the 25 Percent Rule. As a result, full implementation of the Medicare percentage admissions thresholds did not go into effect until cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2013, except for certain LTCHs with cost reporting periods that begin between July 1, 2012 and through September 30, 2012. Specifically, those freestanding facilities, grandfathered HIHs and grandfathered satellites with cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2012 and through September 30, 2012 were subject to a modified 25 Percent Rule for discharges occurring in a three month period between July 1, 2012 and September 30, 2012. 

The BBA of 2013 further delays, and in some cases permanently suspends, the application of the 25 Percent Rule. The following table describes the types of LTCHs and the statutory and regulatory relief they have received from the payment adjustment for these discharges: 

Type of LTCH 

&#160; Non Co-located Admissions (1) &#160; Co-located Admissions (2) Non-grandfathered HIHs and satellite facilities opened before October 1, 2004 (63 owned hospitals) &#160; LTCHs in this category are subject to a payment adjustment for discharged Medicare patients exceeding 25% of the LTCH's total Medicare population. &#160; Percentage admissions threshold was raised from 25% to 50%. In the special case of rural LTCHs, LTCHs co-located with an urban single hospital, or LTCHs co-located with an MSA-dominant hospital the referral percentage was raised from 50% to 75%. This relief is now effective until cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2016. Grandfathered HIHs (3 owned hospitals) &#160; 25 Percent Rule not applicable. &#160; 25 Percent Rule not applicable. Grandfathered satellites (0 owned hospitals) &#160; LTCHs in this category are subject to a payment adjustment for discharged Medicare patients exceeding 25% of the LTCH's total Medicare population. &#160; Percentage admissions threshold was raised from 25% to 50%. In the special case of rural LTCHs, LTCHs co-located with an urban single hospital, or LTCHs co-located with an MSA-dominant hospital the referral percentage was raised from 50% to 75%. This relief is now effective until cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2016. Freestanding facilities (28 owned hospitals) &#160; Percentage admissions threshold is suspended until cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2016. &#160; 25 Percent Rule not applicable. Facilities co-located with a provider-based, off-campus, non-inpatient location of an inpatient prospective payment system hospital (0 owned hospitals) &#160; Percentage admissions threshold is suspended until cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2016. &#160; Percentage admissions threshold is suspended until cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2016. HIHs and satellite facilities opened on or after October 1, 2004 (14 owned hospitals) &#160; LTCHs in this category are subject to a payment adjustment for discharged Medicare patients exceeding 25% of the LTCH's total Medicare population. &#160; LTCHs in this category are subject to a payment adjustment for discharged Medicare patients exceeding 25% of the LTCH's total Medicare population. In the special case where an LTCH is co-located with an MSA-dominant hospital, the referral percentage is no more than 50%, nor less than 25%. 

(1) Medicare patients admitted from a hospital not located in the same building or on the same campus as the LTCH or satellites of the LTCH. (2) Medicare patients admitted from a hospital located in the same building or on the same campus as the LTCH or satellites of the LTCH. 

After the expiration of the regulatory relief, as described above, our LTCHs (whether freestanding, HIH or satellite) will be subject to a downward payment adjustment for any Medicare patients who were admitted from a co-located or a non-co-located hospital and that exceed the applicable percentage admissions threshold of all Medicare patients discharged from the LTCH during the cost reporting period. These regulatory changes will have an adverse financial impact on the net operating revenues and profitability of many of these hospitals for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2016. 

The BBA of 2013 requires CMS to report to Congress before October 2016 on the need for any further extensions or modifications of the extensions of the 25 Percent Rule. In addition, the BBA of 2013 requires the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, or "MedPAC," to report to Congress by June 2019 on the need to continue applying the 25 Percent Rule, the effect of site-neutral payment on LTCHs, and recommendations on how to change the site-neutral payment policy. 

Moratorium on New LTCHs, LTCH Satellite Facilities and LTCH beds 

The SCHIP Extension Act imposed a moratorium on the establishment and classification of new LTCHs, LTCH satellite facilities and LTCH beds in existing LTCHs or satellite facilities. The ACA extended this moratorium by two years. The moratorium expired on December 28, 2012. The BBA of 2013 reinstated the moratorium on the establishment and classification of new LTCHs or LTCH satellite facilities, and on the increase of LTCH beds in existing LTCHs or satellite facilities beginning January 1, 2015 through September 30, 2017. The PAMA advanced the commencement date of the reinstated moratorium from January 1, 2015 to April 1, 2014. The PAMA includes exceptions to the moratorium that are applicable to the establishment and classification of new LTCHs or LTCH satellites facilities currently under development. The new moratorium will not apply to LTCHs or LTCH satellites facilities that: (1) began their qualifying period to become an LTCH on or before April 1, 2014; (2) had a binding written agreement as of April 1, 2014 with an unrelated party for construction, renovation, or lease for an LTCH and have expended, before April 1, 2014, at least 10% of the estimated cost of the project (or, if less, $2,500,000); or (3) had obtained a certificate of need on or before April 1, 2014. The moratorium as reinstated on April 1, 2014 provides no exceptions for increases in the number of certified beds in existing LTCHs and LTCH satellites. Further, any LTCH that establishes a new satellite, based upon meeting the criteria for an exception to the moratorium, must reduce beds elsewhere in the LTCH in order to have beds in the new satellite location. 

One-Time Budget Neutrality Adjustment 

Congress required that the LTCH-PPS payment rates maintain budget neutrality during the first years of the prospective payment system with total expenditures that would have been made under the previous reasonable cost-based payment system. The LTCH-PPS regulations give CMS the ability to make a one-time adjustment to the standard federal rate to correct any "significant difference between actual payments and estimated payments for the first year" of LTCH-PPS. The SCHIP Extension Act precluded CMS from implementing the one-time prospective adjustment to the LTCH standard federal rate for a period of three years. The ACA extended the stay on CMS's ability to adopt a one-time budget neutrality adjustment to LTCH-PPS through December 28, 2012. In the update to the Medicare policies and payment rates for fiscal year 2013, CMS adopted a one-time budget neutrality adjustment that results in a permanent negative adjustment of 3.75% to the LTCH base rate. CMS is implementing the adjustment over a three-year period by applying a factor of 0.98734 to the standard federal rate in fiscal years 2013, 2014 and 2015, except that the adjustment did not apply to payments for discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2012 through December 28, 2012. 

Annual Payment Rate Update 

Fiscal Year 2014 . On August 19, 2013, CMS published the final rule updating the policies and payment rates for LTCH-PPS for fiscal year 2014 (affecting discharges and cost reporting periods 

beginning on or after October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014). The standard federal rate was set at $40,607, an increase from the standard federal rate applicable during the period from December 29, 2012 through September 30, 2013 of $40,398. The update to the standard federal rate for fiscal year 2014 includes a market basket increase of 2.5%, less a productivity adjustment of 0.5%, less a reduction of 0.3% mandated by the ACA, and less a budget neutrality adjustment of 1.266%, as discussed above. The fixed-loss amount for high cost outlier cases was set at $13,314, which was a decrease from the fixed-loss amount in the 2013 fiscal year of $15,408. 

Fiscal Year 2015 . On August 22, 2014, CMS published the final rule updating policies and payment rates for LTCH-PPS for fiscal year 2015 (affecting discharges and cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2014 through September 30, 2015). The standard federal rate was set at $41,044, an increase from the standard federal rate applicable during fiscal year 2014 of $40,607. The update to the standard federal rate for fiscal year 2015 includes a market basket increase of 2.9%, less a productivity adjustment of 0.5%, less a reduction of 0.2% mandated by the ACA, and less a budget neutrality adjustment of 1.266%, as discussed above. The fixed-loss amount for high cost outlier cases was set at $14,972, which was an increase from the fixed-loss amount in the 2014 fiscal year of $13,314. 

Fiscal Year 2016 . On August 17, 2015, CMS published the final rule updating policies and payment rates for the LTCH-PPS for fiscal year 2016 (affecting discharges and cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016). The standard federal rate is set at $41,763, an increase from the standard federal rate applicable during fiscal year 2015 of $41,044. The update to the standard federal rate for fiscal year 2016 includes a market basket increase of 2.4%, less a productivity adjustment of 0.5%, and less a reduction of 0.2% mandated by the ACA. The fixed-loss amount for high cost outlier cases paid under LTCH-PPS is set at $16,423, which is an increase from the fixed-loss amount in the 2015 fiscal year of $14,972. The fixed-loss amount for high cost outlier cases paid under the site-neutral payment rate described below is set at $22,544. 

Medicare Market Basket Adjustments 

The ACA instituted a market basket payment adjustment to LTCHs. In fiscal years 2017 through 2019, the market basket update will be reduced by 0.75%. The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 sets the annual update for fiscal year 2018 at 1% after taking into account the market basket payment reduction of 0.75% mandated by the ACA. The ACA specifically allows these market basket reductions to result in less than a 0% payment update and payment rates that are less than the prior year. 

Medicare Reimbursement of Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Services 

IRFs are paid under a prospective payment system specifically applicable to this provider type, which is referred to as "IRF-PPS." Under the IRF-PPS, each patient discharged from an IRF is assigned to a case mix group, or "IRF-CMG," containing patients with similar clinical conditions that are expected to require similar amounts of resources. An IRF is generally paid a pre-determined fixed amount applicable to the assigned IRF-CMG (subject to applicable case adjustments related to length of stay and facility level adjustments for location and low income patients). The payment amount for each IRF-CMG is intended to reflect the average cost of treating a Medicare patient's condition in an IRF relative to patients with conditions described by other IRF-CMGs. The IRF-PPS also includes special payment policies that adjust the payments for some patients based on the patient's length of stay, the facility's costs, whether the patient was discharged and readmitted and other factors. 

Facility Certification Criteria 

Our rehabilitation hospitals must meet certain facility criteria to be classified as an IRF by the Medicare program, including: (1) a provider agreement to participate as a hospital in Medicare, (2) a 

preadmission screening procedure, (3) ensuring that patients receive close medical supervision and furnish, through the use of qualified personnel, rehabilitation nursing, physical therapy, and occupational therapy, plus, as needed, speech therapy, social or psychological services, and orthotic and prosthetic services, (4) a full-time, qualified director of rehabilitation, (5) a plan of treatment for each inpatient that is established, reviewed, and revised as needed by a physician in consultation with other professional personnel who provide services to the patient, and (6) a coordinated multidisciplinary team approach in the rehabilitation of each inpatient, as documented by periodic clinical entries made in the patient's medical record to note the patient's status in relationship to goal attainment, and that team conferences are held at least every two weeks to determine the appropriateness of treatment. Failure to comply with any of the classification criteria may result in the denial of claims for payment or cause a hospital to lose its status as an IRF and be paid under the prospective payment system that applies to general acute care hospitals. 

Patient Classification Criteria 

Under the IRF certification criteria that has been in effect since 1983, in order to qualify as an IRF, a hospital was required to satisfy certain operational criteria as well as demonstrate that, during its most recent 12-month cost reporting period, it served an inpatient population of whom at least 75% required intensive rehabilitation services for one or more of 10 conditions specified in the regulation. We refer to such 75% requirement as the "75% Rule." 

New IRF certification criteria became effective for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2004 as a result of the major changes that CMS adopted on May 7, 2004 to the 75% Rule that: (1) temporarily lowered the 75% compliance threshold (starting at 50% and phasing to 75% over four years), (2) modified and expanded from 10 to 13 the medical conditions used to determine whether a hospital qualifies as an IRF, (3) identified the conditions under which comorbidities can be used to verify compliance with the 75% Rule, and (4) changed the timeframe used to determine compliance with the 75% Rule from "the most recent 12-month cost reporting period" to "the most recent, consecutive, and appropriate 12-month period," with the result that a determination of non-compliance with the applicable compliance threshold will affect the facility's certification as an IRF for its cost reporting period that begins immediately after the 12-month review period. 

Under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (the "DRA"), enacted on February 8, 2006, Congress extended the phase-in period for the 75% Rule by maintaining the compliance threshold at 60% (rather than increasing it to the scheduled 65%) during the 12-month period beginning on July 1, 2006. The compliance threshold was then to increase to 65% for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2007 and again to 75% for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2008. However, the SCHIP Extension Act included a permanent freeze in the 75% Rule patient classification criteria compliance threshold at 60% (with comorbidities counting toward this threshold), at which time the requirement became known as the "60% Rule." 

Compliance with the patient classification criteria is demonstrated through either medical review or the "presumptive" method, in which a patient's diagnosis codes are compared to a "presumptive compliance" list. CMS has announced that it will remove a number of diagnosis codes from the presumptive compliance list. According to CMS, these conditions do not demonstrate the need for intensive inpatient rehabilitation services in the absence of additional facts that would have to be pulled from a patient's medical record. Effective October 1, 2015, CMS removed a number of diagnosis codes from the presumptive compliance list including diagnosis codes in the following categories: nonspecific diagnosis codes, arthritis diagnosis codes, unilateral upper extremity amputations diagnosis codes, amputation status codes, prosthetic fitting and adjustment codes, some congenital anomalies diagnosis codes and other miscellaneous diagnosis codes. 

Annual Payment Rate Update 

Fiscal Year 2014 . On August 6, 2013, CMS published the final rule updating policies and payment rates for IRF-PPS for fiscal year 2014 (affecting discharges and cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014). The standard payment conversion factor for discharges for fiscal year 2014 was $14,846, which was an increase from the fiscal year 2013 standard payment conversion factor of $14,343. The update to the standard payment conversion factor for fiscal year 2014 includes a market basket increase of 2.6%, less a productivity adjustment of 0.5%, and less a reduction of 0.3% mandated by the ACA. CMS decreased the outlier threshold amount for fiscal year 2014 to $9,272 from $10,466 established in the final rule for fiscal year 2013. 

Fiscal Year 2015 . On August 6, 2014, CMS published the final rule updating policies and payment rates for IRF-PPS for fiscal year 2015 (affecting discharges and cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2014 through September 30, 2015). The standard payment conversion factor for discharges for fiscal year 2015 was $15,198, which was an increase from the fiscal year 2014 standard payment conversion factor of $14,846. The update to the standard payment conversion factor for fiscal year 2015 includes a market basket increase of 2.9%, less a productivity adjustment of 0.5%, and less a reduction of 0.2% mandated by the ACA. CMS decreased the outlier threshold amount for fiscal year 2015 to $8,848 from $9,272 established in the final rule for fiscal year 2014. 

Fiscal Year 2016 . On August 6, 2015, CMS published the final rule updating policies and payment rates for IRF-PPS for fiscal year 2016 (affecting discharges and cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016). The standard payment conversion factor for discharges for fiscal year 2016 is set at $15,478, which is an increase from the fiscal year 2015 standard payment conversion factor of $15,198. The update to the standard payment conversion factor for fiscal year 2016 includes a market basket increase of 2.4%, less a productivity adjustment of 0.5%, and less a reduction of 0.2% mandated by the ACA. CMS decreased the outlier threshold amount for fiscal year 2016 to $8,658 from $8,848 established in the final rule for fiscal year 2015. 

Medicare Market Basket Adjustments 

The ACA instituted a market basket payment adjustment for IRFs. In fiscal years 2017 through 2019, the market basket update will be reduced by 0.75%. The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 sets the annual update for fiscal year 2018 at 1% after taking into account the market basket payment reduction of 0.75% mandated by the ACA. The ACA specifically allows these market basket reductions to result in less than a 0% payment update and payment rates that are less than the prior year. 

Medicare Reimbursement of Outpatient Rehabilitation Services 

The Medicare program reimburses outpatient rehabilitation providers based on the Medicare physician fee schedule. Historically, the Medicare physician fee schedule rates have updated annually based on the SGR formula. The SGR formula has resulted in automatic reductions in rates every year since 2002; however, for each year through March 31, 2015 CMS or Congress has taken action to prevent the SGR formula reductions. The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 repeals the SGR formula effective for services provided on or after January 1, 2015, and establishes a new payment framework consisting of specified updates to the Medicare physician fee schedule, a new MIPS, and APMs. For services provided between January 1, 2015 and June 30, 2015, a 0% payment update was applied to the Medicare physician fee schedule payment rates. For services provided between July 1, 2015 and December 31, 2015, a 0.5% update was applied to the fee schedule payment rates. For services provided in 2016 through 2019, a 0.5% update will be applied each year to the fee schedule payment rates, subject to MIPS adjustment beginning in 2019. For services provided in 2020 through 2025, a 0.0% percent update will be applied each year to the fee schedule payment rates, subject to MIPS and APM adjustments. Finally, in 2026 and subsequent years eligible professionals participating in APMs that meet 

certain criteria would receive annual updates of 0.75%, while all other professionals would receive annual updates of 0.25%. 

The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 requires that payments under the fee schedule be adjusted starting in 2019 based on performance in MIPS, which will consolidate the three existing incentive programs focused on quality, resource use, and meaningful use of electronic health records. The law requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish the MIPS requirements under which a provider's performance is assessed according to established performance standards and used to determine an adjustment factor that is then applied to the professional's payment for a year. Each year from 2019-2024 professionals who receive a significant share of their revenues through an APM (such as accountable care organizations or bundled payment arrangements) that involves risk of financial losses and a quality measurement component will receive a 5% bonus. The bonus payment for APM participation is intended to encourage participation and testing of new APMs and promotes the alignment of incentives across payors. The specifics of the MIPS and APM adjustments beginning in 2019 and 2020, respectively, will be subject to future notice and comment rule-making. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we received approximately 11% of our outpatient rehabilitation net operating revenues from Medicare. 

Therapy Caps 

Beginning on January 1, 1999, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 subjected certain outpatient therapy providers reimbursed under the Medicare physician fee schedule to annual limits for therapy expenses. Effective January 1, 2016, the annual limit on outpatient therapy services is $1,960 for combined physical and speech language pathology services and $1,960 for occupational therapy services. The per beneficiary caps were $1,940 for calendar year 2015. 

The annual limits for therapy expenses historically did not apply to services furnished and billed by outpatient hospital departments. However, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, and prior legislation, extended the annual limits on therapy expenses in hospital outpatient department settings through December 31, 2017. The application of annual limits to hospital outpatient department settings will sunset on December 31, 2017 unless Congress extends it. We operated 1,038 outpatient rehabilitation clinics at December 31, 2015, of which 169 are provider based outpatient rehabilitation clinics operated as departments of the inpatient rehabilitation hospitals we operated. 

In the DRA, Congress implemented an exceptions process to the annual limit for therapy expenses. Under this process, a Medicare enrollee (or person acting on behalf of the Medicare enrollee) is able to request an exception from the therapy caps if the provision of therapy services was deemed to be medically necessary. Therapy cap exceptions have been available automatically for certain conditions and on a case by case basis upon submission of documentation of medical necessity. The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 extends the exceptions process for outpatient therapy caps through December 31, 2017. Unless Congress extends the exceptions process, the therapy caps will apply to all outpatient therapy services beginning January 1, 2018, except those services furnished and billed by outpatient hospital departments. 

The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 made several changes to the exceptions process to the annual limit for therapy expenses. For any claim above the annual limit, the claim must contain a modifier indicating that the services are medically necessary and justified by appropriate documentation in the medical record. In addition, all therapy claims, whether above or below the annual limit, must include the national provider identifier (NPI) of the physician responsible for certifying and periodically reviewing the plan of care. Effective October 1, 2012, all claims exceeding $3,700 are subject to a manual medical review process. The $3,700 threshold is applied separately to the combined physical therapy/speech therapy cap and the occupational therapy cap. Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to replace the manual medical review process with a new medical review process using such factors as the Secretary may determine to be 

appropriate. The law specifies that such factors may include: (a) whether the therapy provider has a high claims denial percentage for therapy services or is less compliant with applicable requirements; (b) whether the therapy provider has a pattern of billing for therapy services that is aberrant or questionable compared with peers, or otherwise has questionable billing practices, such as billing medically unlikely units of services in a day; (c) whether the therapy provider is newly enrolled or has not previously furnished therapy under Medicare; (d) the types of medical conditions treated by the services; and (e) whether the therapy provider is part of a group. The new factors apply to exception requests for which CMS has not conducted a medical review by July 15, 2015. 

Multiple Procedure Payment Reduction 

CMS adopted MPPR Reduction for therapy services in the final update to the Medicare physician fee schedule for calendar year 2011. This MPPR Reduction policy became effective January 1, 2011 and applies to all outpatient therapy services paid under Medicare Part B. The MPPR Reduction policy applies across all therapy disciplines&#151;occupational therapy, physical therapy and speech-language pathology. Under the policy, the Medicare program pays 100% of the practice expense component of the therapy procedure or unit of service with the highest Relative Value Unit, and then reduces the payment for the practice expense component for the second and subsequent therapy procedures or units of service furnished during the same day for the same patient, regardless of whether those therapy services are furnished in separate sessions. In 2011 and 2012, the second and subsequent therapy service furnished during the same day for the same patient was reduced by 20% in office and other non-institutional settings and by 25% in institutional settings. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 increased the payment reduction in either setting to 50% effective April 1, 2013 for all outpatient therapy services. Our outpatient rehabilitation therapy services are primarily offered in institutional settings and, as such, were subject to the applicable 25% payment reduction in the practice expense component for the second and subsequent therapy services furnished by us to the same patient on the same day until April 1, 2013 when the payment reduction was increased to 50%. 

Other Requirements for Payment 

Historically, outpatient rehabilitation services have been subject to scrutiny by the Medicare program for, among other things, medical necessity for services, appropriate documentation for services, supervision of therapy aides and students and billing for single rather than group therapy when services are furnished to more than one patient. CMS has issued guidance to clarify that services performed by a student are not reimbursed even if provided under "line of sight" supervision of the therapist. Likewise, CMS has reiterated that Medicare does not pay for services provided by aides regardless of the level of supervision. CMS also has issued instructions that outpatient physical and occupational therapy services provided simultaneously to two or more individuals by a practitioner should be billed as group therapy services. 

Budget Control Act of 2011 

The Budget Control Act of 2011 (the "BCA of 2011"), enacted on August 2, 2011, increased the federal debt ceiling in connection with deficit reductions over the next ten years. The BCA of 2011 requires automatic reductions in federal spending by approximately $1.2 trillion split evenly between domestic and defense spending. Payments to Medicare providers are subject to these automatic spending reductions, subject to a 2% cap. On April 1, 2013, a 2% reduction to Medicare payments was implemented. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, enacted on November 2, 2015, extends the 2% reductions to Medicare payments through fiscal year 2025. 

Improving Medicare Post-Acute Care Transformation Act of 2014 

The Improving Medicare Post-Acute Care Transformation Act of 2014, enacted on October 6, 2014, requires our specialty hospitals to collect and report additional patient assessment data and clinical 

measures on each Medicare beneficiary who receives inpatient services in our facilities. Specialty hospitals must begin reporting this data no later than October 1, 2018. Within two years after that, CMS will begin making this data available to the public. Facilities that fail to report the required data will be subject to a 2% reduction in their payment rates. The reduction may result in an annual update of less than zero for the applicable rate year. However, any reduction is limited to the applicable fiscal year and is not cumulative. We expect CMS to publish additional regulations and guidance implementing this new law. 

Specialty Hospital Medicaid Reimbursement 

The Medicaid program is designed to provide medical assistance to individuals unable to afford care. The program is governed by the Social Security Act of 1965, funded jointly by each individual state and the federal government, and administered by state agencies. Medicaid payments are made under a number of different systems, which include cost based reimbursement, prospective payment systems or programs that negotiate payment levels with individual hospitals. In addition, Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations of policy by the state agencies and certain government funding limitations, all of which may increase or decrease the level of program payments to our hospitals. Net operating revenues generated directly from the Medicaid program represented approximately 6% of our specialty hospitals net operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Other Medicare Regulations 

Medicare Quality Reporting 

The ACA established quality reporting requirements for LTCHs and IRFs. These programs are mandatory. For fiscal year 2014 and each subsequent year, LTCHs and IRFs that do not submit the required quality data will be subject to a 2% reduction in their annual payment update. The reduction can result in payment rates less than the prior year. However, the reduction will not carry over into the subsequent fiscal years. 

The Physician Quality Reporting System, or "PQRS," is a CMS reporting program that uses a combination of incentive payments and payment reductions to promote reporting of quality information by "eligible professionals." Although physical therapists, occupational therapists and qualified speech-language therapists are generally able to participate in the PQRS program, therapy professionals for whose services we bill through our rehab agencies cannot participate because the Medicare claims processing systems currently cannot accommodate institutional providers such as rehab agencies. Eligible professionals, such as those of our therapy professionals for whose services we bill using their individual Medicare provider numbers, who do not satisfactorily report data on quality measures will be subject to a 2% reduction in their Medicare payment. Eligible professionals who satisfactorily report data on PQRS quality measures will earn a 0.5% incentive payment. 

Medicare Productivity Adjustment 

The ACA implemented a separate annual productivity adjustment for the first time for hospital inpatient services beginning in fiscal year 2012 for LTCHs and IRFs. This provision applied a negative productivity adjustment to the market basket that is used to update the standard federal rate on an annual basis. The market basket does not currently account for increases in provider productivity that could reduce the actual cost of providing services (e.g., through new technology or fewer inputs). The productivity adjustment will equal the 10-year moving average of changes in the annual economy-wide private non-farm business multi-factor productivity. This is a statistic reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and updated in the spring of each year. While this adjustment will change each year, it is currently estimated that this adjustment to the market basket will be approximately minus 1.0% on average. 

Hospital Wage Index 

As part of the methodology for determining prospective payments to LTCHs and IRFs, CMS adjusts the standard payment amounts for area differences in hospital wage levels by a factor reflecting the relative hospital wage level in the geographic area of the hospital compared to the national average hospital wage level. This adjustment factor is the hospital wage index. CMS currently defines hospital geographic areas (labor market areas) based on the definitions of Core-Based Statistical Areas established by the Office of Management and Budget. The ACA calls for CMS to develop and present to Congress a comprehensive reform plan using Bureau of Labor Statistics data, or other data or methodologies, to calculate relative wages for each geographic area involved. In the preamble to the proposed rule for LTCH-PPS for fiscal year 2012, CMS solicited public comments on ways to redefine the geographic reclassification requirements to more accurately define labor markets. To date CMS has not presented a comprehensive reform plan to Congress. 

Independent Payment Advisory Board 

The ACA established an independent board called the Independent Payment Advisory Board that is authorized to develop and submit proposals to the President and Congress to reduce Medicare spending to meet specified targets. The Independent Payment Advisory Board is precluded from submitting proposals that reduce Medicare payments prior to December 31, 2019 for providers, including LTCHs and IRFs, scheduled to receive a reduction in their payment updates in addition to the Medicare productivity adjustment (discussed above). The Independent Payment Advisory Board's proposals would go into effect automatically unless Congress enacts alternative legislation to achieve the required savings (with certain exceptions). The ACA authorized the Independent Payment Advisory Board to issue its first recommendations by January 2014 for implementation in 2015 if the Medicare per capita target growth rate is exceeded, but the CMS Office of the Actuary has determined that the Medicare spending target will not be triggered for 2015. To date, no Independent Payment Advisory Board members have been appointed, and there have been repeated legislative attempts to repeal the provision of the ACA authorizing the establishment of the Independent Payment Advisory Board. 

Physician-Owned Hospital Limitations 

CMS regulations include a number of hospital ownership and physician referral provisions, including certain obligations requiring physician-owned hospitals to disclose ownership or investment interests held by the referring physician or his or her immediate family members. In particular, physician-owned hospitals must furnish to patients, on request, a list of physicians or immediate family members who own or invest in the hospital. Moreover, a physician-owned hospital must require all physician owners or investors who are also active members of the hospital's medical staff to disclose in writing their ownership or investment interests in the hospital to all patients they refer to the hospital. CMS can terminate the Medicare provider agreement of a physician-owned hospital if it fails to comply with these disclosure provisions or with the requirement that a hospital disclose in writing to all patients whether there is a physician on-site at the hospital 24 hours per day, seven days per week. 

Under the transparency and program integrity provisions of the ACA, the exception to the federal self-referral law, or "Stark Law," that permits physicians to refer patients to hospitals in which they have an ownership or investment interest has been dramatically curtailed. Only hospitals, including specialty hospitals, with physician ownership and a provider agreement in place on December 31, 2010 are exempt from the general ban on self-referral. Existing physician-owned hospitals are prohibited from increasing the percentage of physician ownership or investment interests held in the hospital after March 23, 2010. In addition, physician-owned hospitals are prohibited from increasing the number of licensed beds after March 23, 2010, unless meeting specific exceptions related to the hospital's location and patient population. In order to retain their exemption from the general ban on self-referrals, our physician-owned hospitals are required to adopt specific measures relating to conflicts of interest, bona fide investments and patient safety. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 10 hospitals that are owned in-part by physicians. 

Provider and Employee Screening 

The ACA imposed new screening requirements on all Medicare providers, including LTCHs, IRFs and outpatient rehabilitation providers. The screening must include a licensure check and may include other procedures such as a criminal background check, fingerprinting, unscheduled and unannounced site visits, database checks, and other screening techniques CMS deems appropriate to prevent fraud, waste and abuse. Effective March 23, 2011, Medicare providers and suppliers submitting new enrollment applications or revalidating their existing enrollment status are required to pay a $500 application fee that is adjusted annually by the percentage change in the consumer price index. The ACA also imposed new disclosure requirements and authorizes surety bonds for the enrollment of new providers and suppliers. 

In addition, the ACA requires LTCHs to conduct national and state criminal background checks, including fingerprint checks of their employees and contractors who have (or may have) one-on-one contact with patients. Our LTCHs are prohibited from hiring or retaining workers with a history of patient or resident abuse. 

Medicare Compliance Requirements and Penalties 

The ACA included new compliance requirements and increases existing penalties for non-compliance with federal law and the Medicare conditions of participation. In addition, Medicare claims will be paid only if submitted within 12 months. Penalties for submitting false claims and for submitting false statements material to a false claim will be increased. The Secretary will be granted the authority to suspend payments to a provider pending an investigation of credible allegations of fraud. Furthermore, the Recovery Audit Contractor program has been extended to Medicare Parts C and D and Medicaid. 

Other Healthcare Regulations 

Medicare Recovery Audit Contractors. The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 instructed CMS to contract with third-party organizations, known as Recovery Audit Contractors, or "RACs," to identify Medicare underpayments and overpayments, and to authorize RACs to recoup any overpayments. The compensation paid to each RAC is based on a percentage of overpayment recoveries identified by the RAC. CMS has selected and entered into contracts with four RACs, each of which has begun their audit activities in specific jurisdictions. RAC audits of our Medicare reimbursement may lead to assertions that we have been overpaid, require us to incur additional costs to respond to requests for records and pursue the reversal of payment denials, and ultimately require us to refund any amounts determined to have been overpaid. We cannot predict the impact of future RAC reviews on our results of operations or cash flows. 

Fraud and Abuse Enforcement. Various federal and state laws prohibit the submission of false or fraudulent claims, including claims to obtain payment under Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Penalties for violation of these laws include civil and criminal fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. In recent years, federal and state government agencies have increased the level of enforcement resources and activities targeted at the healthcare industry. In addition, the federal False Claims Act and similar state statutes allow individuals to bring lawsuits on behalf of the government, in what are known as qui tam or "whistleblower" actions, alleging false or fraudulent Medicare or Medicaid claims or other violations of the statute. The use of these private enforcement actions against healthcare providers has increased dramatically in recent years, in part because the individual filing the initial complaint is entitled to share in a portion of any settlement or judgment. Revisions to the False Claims Act enacted in 2009 expanded significantly the scope of liability, provided for new investigative tools, and made it easier for whistleblowers to bring and maintain False Claims Act suits on behalf of the government. See "&#151;Legal Proceedings." 

From time to time, various federal and state agencies, such as the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, or "OIG," issue a variety of pronouncements, including fraud alerts, the OIG's Annual Work Plan and other reports, identifying practices that may be subject to 

heightened scrutiny. These pronouncements can identify issues relating to LTCHs, IRFs or outpatient rehabilitation services or providers. For example, the OIG stated in its 2014 Work Plan that it would study (1) readmission patterns in LTCHs to determine whether LTCHs are billing Medicare for higher paying new stays instead of interrupted stays and (2) the extent to which co-located LTCHs readmit patients from the providers with which they are co-located. The OIG issued a corresponding report in June of 2014 in which it recommended that CMS (1) review existing safeguards to determine whether additional action is needed to prevent inappropriate payments for interrupted stays, (2) conduct additional analysis to determine the extent to which financial incentives influence LTCHs' readmission decisions, (3) develop a system to enforce the 5-percent readmission threshold, (4) take appropriate action regarding LTCHs exhibiting certain readmission patterns, and (5) take appropriate action on inappropriate payments and overpayments to co-located LTCHs that exceed the 5-percent readmission threshold. Of these recommendations, CMS concurred with the OIG's recommendation that CMS (1) review existing safeguards to determine whether additional action is needed to prevent inappropriate payments for interrupted stays and (2) take appropriate action on inappropriate payments and overpayments to co-located LTCHs that exceed the 5-percent readmission threshold. In the OIG's 2015 and 2016 Work Plans, the OIG announced its intent to estimate the national incidence of adverse and temporary harm events for Medicare beneficiaries receiving post-acute care in IRFs and LTCHs. As part of this review, the OIG intends to identify factors contributing to these events, determine the extent to which the events were preventable, and estimate the associated costs to Medicare. In the 2016 Work Plan the OIG also indicated it would review compliance with (1) various aspects of IRF PPS, including documentation required in support of claims paid by Medicare, (2) Medicare outlier payments to hospitals and whether CMS performed necessary reconciliations in a timely manner to enable Medicare contractors to perform final settlement of the hospitals' associated cost reports, and (3) hospital compliance with the Medicare provider-based rules. Our IRFs and LTCHs may be required to provide information related to these reviews. We monitor government publications applicable to us to supplement and enhance our compliance efforts. 

We endeavor to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws, including healthcare fraud and abuse laws. If we identify any practices as being potentially contrary to applicable law, we will take appropriate action to address the matter, including, where appropriate, disclosure to the proper authorities, which may result in a voluntary refund of monies to Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental healthcare programs. 

Remuneration and Fraud Measures. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits some business practices and relationships under Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. These practices include the payment, receipt, offer or solicitation of remuneration in connection with, to induce, or to arrange for, the referral of patients covered by a federal or state healthcare program. Violations of the anti-kickback law may be punished by a criminal fine of up to $50,000 or imprisonment for each violation, or both, civil monetary penalties of $50,000 and damages of up to three times the total amount of remuneration, and exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. 

The Stark Law prohibits referrals for designated health services by physicians under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to other healthcare providers in which the physicians have an ownership or compensation arrangement unless an exception applies. Sanctions for violating the Stark Law include civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per prohibited service provided, assessments equal to three times the dollar value of each such service provided and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other federal and state healthcare programs. The statute also provides a penalty of up to $100,000 for a circumvention scheme. In addition, many states have adopted or may adopt similar anti-kickback or anti-self-referral statutes. Some of these statutes prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients, regardless of the source of the payment for the care. While we do not believe our arrangements are in violation of these prohibitions, we cannot assure you that governmental officials 

charged with the responsibility for enforcing the provisions of these prohibitions will not assert that one or more of our arrangements are in violation of the provisions of such laws and regulations. 

Provider-Based Status. The designation "provider-based" refers to circumstances in which a subordinate facility (e.g., a separately certified Medicare provider, a department of a provider or a satellite facility) is treated as part of a provider for Medicare payment purposes. In these cases, the services of the subordinate facility are included on the "main" provider's cost report and overhead costs of the main provider can be allocated to the subordinate facility, to the extent that they are shared. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 14 specialty hospitals that were treated as provider-based satellites of certain of our other facilities, 169 of the outpatient rehabilitation clinics we operated were provider-based and are operated as departments of the IRFs we operated, and we provide rehabilitation management and staffing services to hospital rehabilitation departments that may be treated as provider-based. These facilities are required to satisfy certain operational standards in order to retain their provider-based status. 

Effective January 1, 2017, outpatient rehabilitation services operated as provider-based and located at an off-campus outpatient department of a hospital, will be paid under the Medicare physician fee schedule, rather than the hospital outpatient prospective payment system, unless services at that location were billed as a department of a hospital prior to November 2, 2015. The 169 outpatient rehabilitation clinics we operated as departments of our IRFs as of November 2, 2015 are grandfathered and will continue to be paid under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system. 

Health Information Practices. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or "HIPAA," mandates the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information in an effort to encourage overall administrative simplification and enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the healthcare industry, while maintaining the privacy and security of health information. Among the standards that the Department of Health and Human Services has adopted or will adopt pursuant to HIPAA are standards for electronic transactions and code sets, unique identifiers for providers (referred to as National Provider Identifier), employers, health plans and individuals, security and electronic signatures, privacy and enforcement. If we fail to comply with the HIPAA requirements, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions. The privacy, security and enforcement provisions of HIPAA were enhanced by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or "HITECH," which was included in the ARRA. Among other things, HITECH establishes security breach notification requirements, allows enforcement of HIPAA by state attorneys general, and increases penalties for HIPAA violations. 

The Department of Health and Human Services has adopted standards in three areas in which we are required to comply that affect our operations. 

Standards relating to the privacy of individually identifiable health information govern our use and disclosure of protected health information and require us to impose those rules, by contract, on any business associate to whom such information is disclosed. 

Standards relating to electronic transactions and code sets require the use of uniform standards for common healthcare transactions, including healthcare claims information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, plan premium payments and coordination of benefits. 

Standards for the security of electronic health information require us to implement various administrative, physical and technical safeguards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of electronic protected health information. 

We maintain a HIPAA committee that is charged with evaluating and monitoring our compliance with HIPAA. The HIPAA committee monitors regulations promulgated under HIPAA as they have been adopted to date and as additional standards and modifications are adopted. Although health information standards have had a significant effect on the manner in which we handle health data and communicate 

with payors, the cost of our compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot estimate the cost of compliance with standards that have not been issued or finalized by the Department of Health and Human Services. 

In addition to HIPAA, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. State statutes and regulations vary from state to state. Lawsuits, including class actions and action by state attorneys general, directed at companies that have experienced a privacy or security breach also can occur. Although our policies and procedures are aimed at complying with privacy and security requirements and minimizing the risks of any breach of privacy or security, there can be no assurance that a breach of privacy or security will not occur. If there is a breach, we may be subject to various penalties and damages and may be required to incur costs to mitigate the impact of the breach on affected individuals. 

Compliance Program 

Our Compliance Program 

In 1998, we voluntarily adopted our code of conduct. The code is reviewed and amended as necessary and is the basis for our company-wide compliance program. Our written code of conduct provides guidelines for principles and regulatory rules that are applicable to our patient care and business activities. These guidelines are implemented by a compliance officer, a compliance and internal audit committee, and employee education and training. We also have established a reporting system, auditing and monitoring programs, and a disciplinary system as a means for enforcing the code's policies. 

Compliance and Internal Audit Committee 

Our compliance and internal audit committee is made up of members of our senior management and in-house counsel. The compliance and internal audit committee meets on a quarterly basis and reviews the activities, reports and operation of our compliance program. In addition, the HIPAA committee provides reports to the compliance and internal audit committee. The vice president of compliance and audit services meets with the compliance and internal audit committee on a quarterly basis to provide an overview of the activities and operation of our compliance program. 

Operating Our Compliance Program 

We focus on integrating compliance responsibilities with operational functions. We recognize that our compliance with applicable laws and regulations depends upon individual employee actions as well as company operations. As a result, we have adopted an operations team approach to compliance. Our corporate executives, with the assistance of corporate experts, designed the programs of the compliance and internal audit committee. We utilize facility leaders for employee-level implementation of our code of conduct. This approach is intended to reinforce our company-wide commitment to operate in accordance with the laws and regulations that govern our business. 

Compliance Issue Reporting 

In order to facilitate our employees' ability to report known, suspected or potential violations of our code of conduct, we have developed a system of reporting. This reporting, anonymous or attributable, may be accomplished through our toll-free compliance hotline, compliance e-mail address or our compliance post office box. The compliance officer and the compliance and internal audit committee are responsible for reviewing and investigating each compliance incident in accordance with the compliance and audit services department's investigation policy. 

Compliance Monitoring and Auditing / Comprehensive Training and Education 

Monitoring reports and the results of compliance for each of our business segments are reported to the compliance and internal audit committee on a quarterly basis. We train and educate our employees regarding the code of conduct, as well as the legal and regulatory requirements relevant to each employee's work environment. New and current employees are required to acknowledge and certify that the employee has read, understood and has agreed to abide by the code of conduct. Additionally, all employees are required to re-certify compliance with the code on an annual basis. 

Policies and Procedures Reflecting Compliance Focus Areas 

We review our policies and procedures for our compliance program from time to time in order to improve operations and to ensure compliance with requirements of standards, laws and regulations and to reflect the ongoing compliance focus areas which have been identified by the compliance and internal audit committee. 

Internal Audit 

In addition to and in support of the efforts of our compliance and audit department, during 2001 we established an internal audit function. The vice president of compliance and audit services manages the combined compliance and audit department and meets with the audit and compliance committee of the board of directors on a quarterly basis to discuss audit results and provide an overview of the activities and operation of our compliance program. 

Available Information 

We are subject to the information and periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and, in accordance therewith, file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such periodic reports, proxy statements and other information is available for inspection and copying at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, or may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

Our website address is www.selectmedicalholdings.com and can be used to access free of charge, through the investor relations section, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated as a part of this annual report. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following table sets forth the names, ages and titles, as well as a brief account of the business experience, of each person who was an executive officer of the Company as of January 1, 2015: 

Name 

&#160; Age &#160; Position Robert A. Ortenzio &#160; &#160; 58 &#160; Executive Chairman and Co-Founder Rocco A. Ortenzio &#160; &#160; 83 &#160; Vice Chairman and Co-Founder David S. Chernow &#160; &#160; 58 &#160; President and Chief Executive Officer Martin F. Jackson &#160; &#160; 61 &#160; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer John A. Saich &#160; &#160; 47 &#160; Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Michael E. Tarvin &#160; &#160; 55 &#160; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Scott A. Romberger &#160; &#160; 55 &#160; Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Robert G. Breighner, Jr. &#160; &#160; 47 &#160; Vice President, Compliance and Audit Services and Corporate Compliance Officer 

&#160; Robert A. Ortenzio was appointed Executive Chairman and Co-Founder effective January 1, 2014. Mr. Ortenzio served as our Chief Executive Officer from January 1, 2005 until December 31, 2013 and. Mr. Ortenzio served as our President and Chief Executive Officer from September 2001 to January 1, 2005. Mr. Ortenzio also served as our President and Chief Operating Officer from February 1997 to September 2001. Mr. Ortenzio co-founded the Company and has served as a director since February 1997. Mr. Ortenzio also serves on the board of directors of Group Holdings. He was an Executive Vice President and a director of Horizon/CMS Healthcare Corporation from July 1995 until July 1996. In 1986, Mr. Ortenzio co-founded Continental Medical Systems, Inc., and served in a number of different capacities, including as a Senior Vice President from February 1986 until April 1988, as Chief Operating Officer from April 1988 until July 1995, as President from May 1989 until August 1996 and as Chief Executive Officer from July 1995 until August 1996. Before co-founding Continental Medical Systems, Inc., he was a Vice President of Rehab Hospital Services Corporation. Mr. Ortenzio is the son of Rocco A. Ortenzio, our Vice Chairman and Co-Founder. 

&#160; Rocco A. Ortenzio was appointed Vice Chairman and Co-Founder effective January 1, 2014. Mr. Ortenzio served as our Executive Chairman from September 2001 until December 2013. From February 1997 to September 2001, Mr. Ortenzio served as our Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Ortenzio co-founded the Company and has served as a director since February 1997. In 1986, he co-founded Continental Medical Systems, Inc., and served as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until July 1995. In 1979, Mr. Ortenzio founded Rehab Hospital Services Corporation, and served as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until June 1986. In 1969, Mr. Ortenzio founded Rehab Corporation and served as its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 1974. Mr. Ortenzio is the father of Robert A. Ortenzio, our Executive Chairman and Co-Founder. 

&#160; David S. Chernow has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since January 1, 2014. Mr. Chernow has served as our President and previously held various additional executive officer titles since September 2010. Mr. Chernow served as a director of the Company from January 2002 until February 2005 and from August 2005 until September 2010. From May 2007 to February 2010, Mr. Chernow served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Oncure Medical Corp., one of the largest providers of free-standing radiation oncology care in the United States. From July 2001 to June 2007, Mr. Chernow served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of JA Worldwide, a nonprofit organization dedicated to the education of young people about business (formerly, Junior Achievement, Inc.). From 1999 to 2001, he was the President of the Physician Services Group at US Oncology, Inc. Mr. Chernow co-founded American Oncology Resources in 1992 and served as its Chief Development Officer until the time of the merger with Physician Reliance Network, Inc., which created US Oncology, Inc. in 1999. 

&#160; Martin F. Jackson has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2007. He served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from May 1999 to February 2007. Mr. Jackson also serves on the board of directors of Group Holdings. Mr. Jackson previously served as a Managing Director in the Health Care Investment Banking Group for CIBC Oppenheimer from January 1997 to May 1999. Prior to that time, he served as Senior Vice President, Health Care Finance with McDonald &#38; Company Securities, Inc. from January 1994 to January 1997. Prior to 1994, Mr. Jackson held senior financial positions with Van Kampen Merritt, Touche Ross, Honeywell and L'Nard Associates. 

&#160; John A. Saich has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since December 15, 2010. He served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources from February 2007 to December 2010. He served as our Vice President, Human Resources from November 1999 to January 2007. He joined the Company as Director, Human Resources and HRIS in February 1998. Previously, Mr. Saich served as Director of Benefits and Human Resources for Integrated Health Services in 1997 and as Director of Human Resources for Continental Medical Systems, Inc. from August 1993 to January 1997. 

&#160; Michael E. Tarvin has served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since February 2007. He served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from November 1999 to February 2007. He served as our Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from February 1997 to November 1999. He was Vice President&#151;Senior Counsel of Continental Medical Systems from February 1993 until February 1997. Prior to that time, he was Associate Counsel of Continental Medical Systems from March 1992. Mr. Tarvin was an associate at the Philadelphia law firm of Drinker Biddle &#38; Reath, LLP from September 1985 until March 1992. 

&#160; Scott A. Romberger has served as our Senior Vice President and Controller since February 2007. He served as our Vice President and Controller from February 1997 to February 2007. In addition, he has served as our Chief Accounting Officer since December 2000. Prior to February 1997, he was Vice President&#151;Controller of Continental Medical Systems from January 1991 until January 1997. Prior to that time, he served as Acting Corporate Controller and Assistant Controller of Continental Medical Systems from June 1990 and December 1988, respectively. Mr. Romberger is a certified public accountant and was employed by a national accounting firm from April 1985 until December 1988. 

Robert G. Breighner, Jr. has served as our Vice President, Compliance and Audit Services since August 2003. He served as our Director of Internal Audit from November 2001 to August 2003. Previously, Mr. Breighner was Director of Internal Audit for Susquehanna Pfaltzgraff Co. from June 1997 until November 2001. Mr. Breighner held other positions with Susquehanna Pfaltzgraff Co. from May 1991 until June 1997. 

