 Item 1. Business 

Company History 

SLM Corporation, more commonly known as Sallie Mae, is the nation&#8217;s leading saving, planning and paying for education company. For 43 years, we have made a difference in students&#8217; and families&#8217; lives, helping more than 34 million Americans pay for college. We recognize there is no single way to achieve this task, so we provide a range of products to help families, whether college is a long way off or right around the corner. We promote responsible financial habits that help our customers dream, invest and succeed. 

Our primary business is to originate and service Private Education Loans we make to students and their families. We use &#8220;Private Education Loans&#8221; to mean education loans to students or their families that are not made, insured or guaranteed by any state or federal government. We also operate a consumer savings network that provides financial rewards on everyday purchases to help families save for college. 

We were formed in 1972 as the Student Loan Marketing Association, a federally chartered government sponsored enterprise (&#8220;GSE&#8221;), with the goal of furthering access to higher education by providing liquidity to the education loan marketplace. Under privatization legislation passed in 1997, we incorporated SLM Corporation as a Delaware corporation with the GSE as a subsidiary and on December 29, 2004, we terminated the federal charter and dissolved the GSE. 

On April 30, 2014, we completed our plan to legally separate (the &#8220;Spin-Off&#8221;) into two distinct publicly traded entities: an education loan management, servicing and asset recovery business, named Navient Corporation (&#8220;Navient&#8221;); and a consumer banking business, named SLM Corporation. We sometimes refer to the SLM Corporation that existed prior to the Spin-Off as &#8220;pre-Spin-Off SLM&#8221; herein. 

Our principal executive offices are located at 300 Continental Drive, Newark, Delaware 19713, and our telephone number is (302) 451-0200. 

Our Business 

Our primary business is to originate and service Private Education Loans. In 2015, we originated $4.3 billion of Private Education Loans, an increase of 6 percent from the year ended December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2015, we had $10.5 billion of Private Education Loans outstanding. 

Private Education Loans 

The Private Education Loans we make to students and families are primarily to bridge the gap between the cost of higher education and the amount funded through financial aid, federal loans and customers&#8217; resources. We also extend Private Education Loans as an alternative to similar federal education loan products where we believe our rates are competitive. We earn interest income on our Private Education Loan portfolio, net of provision for loan losses. 

In 2009, we introduced the Smart Option Student Loan, our Private Education Loan product emphasizing in-school payment features that can produce shorter terms to minimize customers&#8217; total finance charges. Customers elect one of three Smart Option repayment types at the time of loan origination. The first two, Interest Only and Fixed Payment options, require monthly payments while the student is in school and for six months thereafter, and accounted for approximately 56 percent of the Private Education Loans Sallie Mae Bank originated during 2015. The third repayment option is the more traditional deferred Private Education Loan product where customers are not required to make payments while the student is in school and for a six-month grace period after separation. Lower interest rates on the Interest Only and Fixed Payment options incentivize customers to elect those options. Having borrowers make payments while in school helps reduce the total loan cost compared with the traditional deferred loan, and also helps borrowers become accustomed to making on-time regular loan payments. 

We regularly review and update the terms of our Private Education Loan products. Our Private Education Loans include important protections for the family, including loan forgiveness in case of death or permanent disability of the student borrower and a free, quarterly FICO Score benefit to students with a Smart Option Student Loan disbursed since academic year 2014-2015. 

Private Education Loans bear the full credit risk of the customers. We manage this risk by underwriting and pricing based on customized credit scoring criteria and the addition of qualified cosigners. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our average FICO scores were 748 at the time of origination and approximately 90 percent of our loans were cosigned. In addition, we voluntarily require school certification of both the need for, and the amount of, every Private Education Loan we originate, and we disburse the loans directly to the higher education institution. 

The core of our marketing strategy is to promote our products on campuses through financial aid offices as well as through online and direct marketing to students and their families. Our on-campus efforts with 2,400 higher education institutions are led by our sales force, the largest in the industry, which has become a trusted resource for financial aid offices. 

Our loans are high credit quality and the overwhelming majority of our borrowers manage their payments with great success. At December 31, 2015, 2.2 percent of loans in repayment were delinquent, and loans in forbearance were 3.4 percent of loans in repayment and forbearance. In 2015, 0.82 percent of total loans in repayment charged off. Loans in repayment include loans on which borrowers are making interest only and fixed payments, as well as loans that have entered full principal and interest repayment status. 

Sallie Mae Bank 

Since 2006, virtually all of the Private Education Loans we currently own or service have been originated and funded by Sallie Mae Bank (the &#8220;Bank&#8221;), our Utah industrial bank subsidiary, which is regulated by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions (&#8220;UDFI&#8221;), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;), and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;). At December 31, 2015, the Bank had total assets of $15.0 billion, including $10.5 billion in Private Education Loans and $1.1 billion of FFELP Loans, and total deposits of $12.0 billion. 

Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits will be necessary to sustain the growth of our Private Education Loan originations. Our ability to obtain such funding is dependent, in part, on the capital level of the Bank and its compliance with other applicable regulatory requirements. At the time of this filing, there are no restrictions on our ability to obtain deposit funding or the interest rates we charge other than those restrictions generally applicable to all FDIC-insured banks of similar size. We diversify our funding base by raising term funding in the long-term asset-backed securities (&#8220;ABS&#8221;) market collateralized by pools of Private Education Loans. We plan to continue to do so, market conditions permitting. This helps us reduce our reliance on deposits to fund our growth, and match-fund our assets. 

We expect the Bank to retain servicing of all Private Education Loans it originates, regardless of whether the loans are held, sold or securitized. If Private Education Loans are sold and servicing is retained, the Bank receives ongoing servicing revenue for those loans in addition to the gain on sale recognized on the sale of those assets. 

See the subsection titled &#8220;Regulation of Sallie Mae Bank&#8221; under &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; for additional details about Sallie Mae Bank. 

Operational Infrastructure 

In April 2014, we began to perform collection activity on our portfolio of Private Education Loans. In October 2014, we launched our stand-alone servicing platform and began servicing our portfolio of Private Education Loans. Since early 2015, all servicing and collections activities have been conducted in the United States. 

Our servicing operation includes resources dedicated to assist customers with specialized needs and escalated inquiries. We also have a group of customer service representatives dedicated to assisting military personnel with available military benefits. 

In 2015, we completed the build-out of our operational infrastructure to independently originate Private Education Loans. This included the implementation of a new loan originations platform. 

Upromise by Sallie Mae 

Upromise by Sallie Mae is a save-for-college rewards program helping Americans save for higher education. Membership is free and each year approximately 400,000 consumers enroll to use the service. Members earn money for college by receiving cash back rewards when shopping at participating on-line or brick-and-mortar retailers, booking travel, dining out at participating restaurants, and by using their Upromise MasterCard. As of December 31, 2015, more than 850 merchants participated by providing discounts passed on to members in the form of cash back rewards. Since inception, Upromise members have received approximately $1 billion for college, and more than 390,000 members actively use the Upromise credit card for everyday purchases. 

Our Approach to Advising Students and Families How to Pay for College 

Our annual research on How America Pays for College 1 &#32;confirms students and their families cover the cost of college using multiple sources. According to this research, just 40 percent of families have a plan to pay for college. Sallie Mae offers free online financial literacy resources, including interactive tools and content, at SallieMae.com/Plan-for-College, to help families construct a comprehensive financial strategy to save and pay for college. Plan for College features the College Planning Calculator, which facilitates families setting college savings goals, projecting the full cost of a college degree, and estimating future student loan payments and the annual starting salary level needed to keep payments manageable. In addition, Sallie Mae offers a free mobile application, College Ahead, that engages high school juniors and seniors in a step-by-step journey to college. 

To encourage responsible borrowing, Sallie Mae advises students and families to follow a three-step approach to paying for college: 

Step 1: Use scholarships, grants, savings and income. 

We provide access to an extensive free online scholarship database, which includes information about more than 5 million scholarships with an aggregate value in excess of $24 billion. 

Through the Bank, we offer traditional savings products, such as high-yield savings accounts, money market accounts, and certificates of deposit (&#8220;CDs&#8221;). 

In addition, our Upromise by Sallie Mae save-for-college rewards program helps families jumpstart their save-for-college plans by providing financial rewards on everyday purchases made at participating merchants. 

Step 2: Explore federal government loan options. 

We encourage students to explore federal government loan options, including Perkins loans, Direct loans and PLUS loans. Students apply for federal student aid, including federal student loans, by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. 

Step 3: Consider affordable Private Education Loans to fill the gap. 

We offer competitively priced Private Education Loan products to bridge the gap between family resources, federal loans, grants, student aid and scholarships, and the cost of a college education. 

____________________ 

&#32; 1 Sallie Mae&#8217;s How America Pays for College 2015 , conducted by Ipsos, www.salliemae.com/howamericapays. 

Our Approach to Assisting Students and Families Borrowing and Repaying Private Education Loans 

To ensure applicants borrow only what they need to cover their school&#8217;s cost of attendance, we actively engage with schools and require school certification before we disburse a Private Education Loan. To help applicants understand their loan and its terms, we provide multiple, customized disclosures explaining the applicant&#8217;s starting interest rate, the interest rate during the life of the loan and the loan&#8217;s total cost under the available repayment options. Our Smart Option Student Loan features no origination fees and no prepayment penalties, provides rewards for paying on time, offers a choice of repayment options, and a choice of either variable or fixed interest rates. 

The majority of our Smart Option Student Loan borrowers elect an in-school repayment option. By making in-school payments, customers learn to establish good repayment patterns, reduce the total loan cost, and graduate with less debt. We send monthly communications to customers while they are in school, even if they have no monthly payments scheduled, to keep them informed and encourage them to reduce the amount they will owe when they leave school. 

Some customers transitioning from school to the work force may require more time before they are financially capable of making full payments of principal and interest. Sallie Mae created a Graduated Repayment Program to assist new graduates with additional payment flexibility, allowing customers to elect to make interest-only payments instead of full principal and interest payments during the first year after their six-month grace period. 

Our experience has taught us the successful transition from school to full principal and interest repayment status involves making and carrying out a financial plan. As customers approach the principal and interest repayment period on their loans, Sallie Mae engages with them and communicates what to expect during the transition. In addition, an informational section of SallieMae.com, Managing Your Loans, provides educational content for borrowers on how to organize loans, set up a monthly budget, and understand repayment obligations. Examples are provided that help explain how payments are applied and allocated, and help site visitors estimate payments and see how the accrued interest on alternative repayment programs could affect the cost of their loans. The site also provides important information on special benefits available to service men and women under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. 

After graduation, a customer may apply for the cosigner to be released from the loan. This option is available once there have been 12 consecutive, on-time principal and interest payments and the student borrower adequately meets our credit requirements. In the event of a cosigner&#8217;s death, the student borrower automatically continues as the sole individual on the loan with the same terms. 

During repayment, customers may struggle to meet their financial obligations. If a customer&#8217;s account becomes delinquent, we will work with the customer and/or the cosigner to understand their ability to make ongoing payments. If the customer is in financial hardship, we work with the customer and/or cosigner to understand their financial circumstances and identify any available alternative arrangements designed to reduce monthly payment obligations. These can include extended repayment schedules, temporary interest rate reductions and, if appropriate, short-term hardship forbearance, suited to their individual circumstances and ability to make payments. 

In some cases, loan modifications and other efforts may be insufficient for those experiencing extreme long term hardship. Sallie Mae has long supported bankruptcy reform that (i) would permit the discharge of education loans, both private and federal, after a required period of good faith attempts to repay and (ii) is prospective in application, so as not to rewrite existing contracts. Any reform should recognize education loans have unique characteristics and benefits as compared to other consumer loan classes. 

Key Drivers of Private Education Loan Market Growth 

The size of the Private Education Loan market is based primarily on three factors: college enrollment levels, the costs of attending college and the availability of funds from the federal government to pay for a college education. The amounts students and their families can contribute toward college costs and the availability of scholarships and institutional grants are also important. If the cost of education increases at a pace exceeding the sum of family income, savings, federal lending, and scholarships, more students and families can be expected to rely on Private Education Loans. If enrollment levels or college costs decline or the availability of federal education loans, grants or subsidies and scholarships significantly increases, Private Education Loan originations could decrease. 

We focus primarily on borrowers attending public and private not-for-profit four-year degree granting institutions. We lend to some borrowers attending two-year and for-profit schools. Due to the low cost of two-year programs, federal grant and loan programs are typically sufficient for funding needs of these students. The for-profit industry has been the subject of increased scrutiny and regulation over the last several years. Since 2007, we have reduced the number of for-profit institutions included in our lending program. Approximately 10 percent or $430 million of our 2015 Private Education Loan originations were for students attending for-profit institutions. The for-profit institutions where we continue to do business are focused on career training. We expect students who attend and complete programs at for-profit schools to support the same repayment performance as students who attend and graduate from public and private not-for-profit four-year degree granting institutions. 

Our competitors 1 &#32;in the Private Education Loan market include large banks such as Wells Fargo Bank NA, Discover Bank, Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and PNC Bank NA, as well as a number of smaller specialty finance companies. 

Enrollment 

We expect modest enrollment growth over the next several years. 

&#8226; 

Enrollments at public and private not-for-profit four-year institutions increased by approximately 9 percent from academic years (&#8220;AYs&#8221;) 2004-2005 through 2007-2008. Enrollment increased especially during the recession of 2007-2009, which created high unemployment. Enrollment has been stable post-recession. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; Enrollment at Four-Year Degree Granting Institutions 2 &#160; 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; (in millions) 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

According to the U.S. Department of Education&#8217;s projections released in February 2014, the high school graduate population is projected to remain relatively flat from 2015 to 2022. 2 &#160; 

_________________________ 

1 Source: MeasureOne Q3 2015 Private Student Loan Report, December 2015. www.measureone.com. 

2 Source: U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics, Projections of Education Statistics to 2022 (NCES, February 2014), Enrollment in Postsecondary Institutions (NCES, December 2013), Enrollment in Postsecondary Institutions (NCES, October 2014) and Enrollment and Employees in Postsecondary Institutions (NCES, November 2015). 

Tuition Rates 

&#8226; 

Average published tuition and fees (exclusive of room and board) at four-year public and private not-for-profit institutions increased at compound annual growth rates of 5.5 percent and 4.4 percent, respectively, from AYs 2005-2006 through 2015-2016. Growth rates have been more modest the last two AYs, with average published tuition and fees at public and private four-year not-for-profit institutions increasing 2.9 percent and 3.8 percent, respectively, between AYs 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 and 2.9 percent and 3.6 percent, respectively, between AYs 2014-2015 and 2015-2016. 3 &#32;Tuition and fees are likely to continue to grow at the more modest rates of recent years. 

Published Tuition and Fees 3 &#160; 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; (Dollars in actuals) 

______ 

3 &#32;&#32;Source: The College Board-Trends in College Pricing 2015. &#169; 2015 The College Board. www.collegeboard.org. The College Board restates its data annually, which may cause previously reported results to vary. 

Sources of Funding 

&#8226; 

Borrowing through federal education loan programs increased at a compound annual growth rate of 10 percent between AYs 2004-2005 and 2011-2012. 6 &#32;Federal borrowing increased considerably during the recession, with borrowing increasing 26 percent between AYs 2007-2008 and 2008-2009 alone. A major driver of this activity was the Higher Education Reconciliation Act of 2005, which in AY 2007-2008 raised annual Stafford loan limits for the first time since 1992 and expanded federal lending with the introduction of the Graduate PLUS loan. In response to the financial crisis in AY 2008-2009, The Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008 raised unsubsidized Stafford loan limits for undergraduate students again by $2,000. 4 &#32;Federal education loan program borrowing peaked in AY 2011-2012. Since then it declined by 4 percent in AY 2012-2013, 1 percent in AY 2013-2014, and another 5 percent in AY 2014-2015. We believe these declines are principally driven by enrollment declines in the for-profit schools sector. 4 &#32;Between AYs 2004-2005 and 2014-2015, federal grants increased 164 percent to $46.2 billion. 5 &#32; 

_________________________ 

4 Source: FinAid, History of Student Financial Aid and Historical Loan Limits. &#169; 2014 by FinAid. www.FinAid.org. 

5 Source: The College Board-Trends in Student Aid 2015. &#169; 2015 The College Board. www.collegeboard.org. 

&#8226; 

These increases in federal lending for higher education had a significant impact on the market for Private Education Loans. Annual originations of Private Education Loans peaked at $21.1 billion in AY 2007-2008 and declined to $6.0 billion in AY 2010-2011. Contributing to the decline in Private Education Loan originations was a significant tightening of underwriting standards by Private Education Loan providers, including Sallie Mae. Private Education Loan originations increased to an estimated $9.0 billion in AY 2014-2015, up 7.0 percent over the previous year. 6 &#160; 

_______ &#160; 

6 &#32;&#32;Source: The College Board-Trends in Student Aid 2015. &#169; &#32;2015 The College Board. www.collegeboard.org. Funding sources in current dollars and includes Federal Grants, Federal Loans, Education Tax Benefits, Work Study, State, Institutional and Private Grants and Non-Federal Loans. Other sources for the size of the Private Education Loan market exist and may cite the size of the market differently. We believe the College Board source (a) includes Private Education Loans made by major financial institutions in the Private Education Loan market, with an unknown adjustment for Private Education Loans made by smaller lenders such as credit unions, and (b) may include consolidation loans made by the major financial institutions. The College Board restates its data annually, which may cause previously reported results to vary. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

We estimate total spending on higher education was $412 billion in the AY 2014-2015, up from $336 billion in the AY 2009-2010. Private Education Loans represent just 2 percent of total spending on higher education. Modest growth in total spending can lead to meaningful increases in Private Education Loans in the absence of growth in other sources of funding. 7 &#160; 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Over the AY 2009-2015 period, increases in total spending have been born primarily through increased family contributions. If household finances continue to improve, we would expect this trend continue. 

_________________________ &#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; 7 Source: Total post-secondary education spending is estimated by Sallie Mae determining the full-time equivalents for both graduates and undergraduates and multiplying by the estimated total per person cost of attendance for each school type. In doing so, we utilize information from the U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics, Projections of Education Statistics to 2022 (NCES 2014-, February 2014), The Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS), College Board -Trends in Student Aid 2015. &#169; 2015 The College Board. www.collegeboard.org, College Board -Trends in Student Pricing 2015. &#169; 2015 The College Board. www.collegeboard.org, National Student Clearinghouse - Term Enrollment Estimates, and Company analysis. Other sources for these data points also exist publicly and may vary from our computed estimates. NCES, IPEDS, and College Board restate their data annually, which may cause previously reported results to vary. We have also recalculated figures in our Company analysis to standardize all costs of attendance to dollars not adjusted for inflation. This has a minimal impact on historically-stated numbers. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Overview 

We are subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by various federal, state and local authorities. The more significant aspects of the laws and regulations that apply to us and our subsidiaries are described below. These descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the applicable statutes, legislation, regulations and policies, as they may be amended, and as interpreted and applied, by federal, state and local agencies. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) was adopted to reform and strengthen regulation and supervision of the U.S. financial services industry. It contains comprehensive provisions to govern the practices and oversight of financial institutions and other participants in the financial markets. It mandates significant regulations, additional requirements and oversight on almost every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry, including increased capital and liquidity requirements, limits on leverage and enhanced supervisory authority. It requires the issuance of many regulations, which will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall impact to us, our affiliates, including the Bank, as well as our customers and the financial industry. 

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations 

Our origination, servicing, first-party collection and deposit taking activities subject us to federal and state consumer protection, privacy and related laws and regulations. Some of the more significant laws and regulations that are applicable to our business include: 

&#8226; 

various laws governing unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices; 

&#8226; 

the federal Truth-In-Lending Act and Regulation Z issued by the CFPB, which govern disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; 

&#8226; 

the Fair Credit Reporting Act and Regulation V issued by the CFPB, which govern the use and provision of information to consumer reporting agencies; 

&#8226; 

the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (&#8220;ECOA&#8221;) and Regulation B issued by the CFPB, which prohibit creditor practices that discriminate on the basis of race, religion and other prohibited factors in extending credit; 

&#8226; 

the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (&#8220;SCRA&#8221;), which applies to all debts incurred prior to commencement of active military service (including education loans) and limits the amount of interest, including fees, that may be charged; 

&#8226; 

the Truth in Savings Act and Regulation DD issued by the CFPB, which mandate certain disclosures related to consumer deposit accounts; 

&#8226; 

the Expedited Funds Availability Act, Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act and Regulation CC issued by the Federal Reserve Bank (&#8220;FRB&#8221;), which relate to the availability of deposit funds to consumers; 

&#8226; 

the Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain the confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with federal government requests for and subpoenas of financial records; 

&#8226; 

the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E issued by the CFPB, which govern automated transfers of funds and consumers&#8217; rights related thereto; 

&#8226; 

the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, which governs communication methods that may be used to contact customers; and 

&#8226; 

the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which governs the ability of financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to non-affiliated third-parties. 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 

The Consumer Financial Protection Act, a part of the Dodd-Frank Act, established the CFPB, which has broad authority to promulgate regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws and to directly or indirectly enforce those laws, including regulatory oversight of the Private Education Loan industry, and to examine financial institutions for compliance. It is authorized to collect fines and order consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. It has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and practices by issuing regulations that define the same or by using its enforcement authority without first issuing regulations. The CFPB has been active in its supervision, examination and enforcement of financial services companies, notably bringing enforcement actions, imposing fines and mandating large refunds to customers of several large banking institutions. On January 1, 2015, the CFPB became the Bank&#8217;s primary consumer compliance supervisor with compliance examination authority and primary consumer protection enforcement authority. We expect the CFPB to begin its initial formal examination of us in early 2016. The UDFI and FDIC remain the prudential regulatory authorities with respect to the Bank&#8217;s financial strength. 

The Dodd-Frank Act created the Private Education Loan Ombudsman within the CFPB to receive and attempt to informally resolve inquiries about Private Education Loans. The Private Education Loan Ombudsman reports to Congress annually on the trends and issues identified through this process. The CFPB continues to take an active interest in the student loan industry, undertaking a number of initiatives related to the Private Education Loan market and student loan servicing. On October 16, 2015, the Private Education Loan Ombudsman submitted its fourth report based on Private Education Loan inquiries received by the CFPB from October 1, 2014 through September 30, 2015. The CFPB has recently expressed some concerns with education loan servicers and indicated it may begin to consider possible rulemaking efforts for the industry in late 2016 or 2017. 

Regulation of Sallie Mae Bank 

The Bank was chartered in 2005 and is a Utah industrial bank regulated by the FDIC, the UDFI and the CFPB. We are not a bank holding company and therefore are not subject to the federal regulations applicable to bank holding companies. However, we and our non-bank subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight as institution-affiliated parties. The following discussion sets forth some of the elements of the bank regulatory framework applicable to us, the Bank and our other non-bank subsidiaries. 

General 

The Bank is currently subject to prudential regulation and examination by the FDIC and the UDFI, and consumer compliance regulation and examination by the CFPB. Numerous other federal and state laws and regulations govern almost all aspects of the operations of the Bank and, to some degree, our operations and those of our non-bank subsidiaries as institution-affiliated parties. 

Actions by Federal and State Regulators 

Like all depository institutions, the Bank is regulated extensively under federal and state law. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, the UDFI and the FDIC have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions of the Bank if it is determined to lack sufficient capital or other resources, or is otherwise operating in a manner deemed to be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices. Under this authority, the Bank&#8217;s regulators can require it to enter into informal or formal supervisory agreements, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which the Bank would be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns and refrain from taking certain actions. 

Enforcement Powers 

As &#8220;institution-affiliated parties&#8221; of the Bank, we, our non-bank subsidiaries and our management, employees, agents, independent contractors and consultants are subject to potential civil and criminal penalties for violations of law, regulations or written orders of a government agency. Violations can include failure to timely file required reports, filing false or misleading information or submitting inaccurate reports. Civil penalties may be as high as $1,000,000 a day for such violations and criminal penalties for some financial institution crimes may include imprisonment for 20 years. Regulators have flexibility to commence enforcement actions against institutions and institution-affiliated parties, and the FDIC has the authority to terminate deposit insurance. When issued by a banking agency, cease and desist and similar orders may, among other things, require affirmative action to correct any harm resulting from a violation or practice, including by compelling restitution, reimbursement, indemnifications or guarantees against loss. A financial institution may also be ordered to restrict its growth, dispose of certain assets, rescind agreements or contracts, or take other actions determined to be appropriate by the ordering agency. The federal banking regulators also may remove a director or officer from an insured depository institution (or bar them from the industry) if a violation is willful or reckless. 

On May 13, 2014, the Bank reached settlements with the FDIC and the Department of Justice (the "DOJ") regarding disclosures and assessments of certain late fees, as well as compliance with the SCRA. Under the Consent Order, Order to Pay Restitution and Order to Pay Civil Money Penalty issued by the FDIC (the "FDIC Consent Order"), the Bank agreed to pay $3.3 million in fines and oversee the refund of up to $30 million in late fees assessed on loans owned or originated by the Bank since its inception in November 2005. Under the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement executed in connection with the Spin-Off (the "Separation and Distribution Agreement"), Navient is responsible for funding all liabilities under the regulatory orders, other than fines directly levied against the Bank in connection with these matters. Under the consent order entered into with the DOJ (the "DOJ Consent Order"), Navient is solely responsible for reimbursing SCRA benefits and related compensation on behalf of both its subsidiary, Navient Solutions, Inc., and the Bank. At the time of this filing, the Bank is continuing to implement both the FDIC Consent Order and the DOJ Consent Order. 

As required by the FDIC Consent Order and the DOJ Consent Order, the Bank has implemented new SCRA policies, procedures and training, has updated billing statement disclosures, and is taking additional steps to ensure its third-party service providers are compliant with applicable laws and regulations. The FDIC Consent Order also requires the Bank&#8217;s compliance with consumer protection regulations and its compliance management system be audited by independent qualified audit personnel on an annual basis. The Bank is focused on achieving timely and comprehensive remediation of each item contained in the orders and further enhancing its policies and practices to promote responsible financial practices, customer experience and compliance. 

In May 2014, the Bank received a Civil Investigative Demand (&#8220;CID&#8221;) from the CFPB as part of the CFPB&#8217;s separate investigation relating to customer complaints, fees and charges assessed in connection with the servicing of student loans and related collection practices of pre-Spin-Off SLM by entities now subsidiaries of Navient during a time period prior to the Spin-Off. Two state attorney generals have provided the Bank identical CIDs and others have become involved in the inquiry over time. To the extent requested, we have been cooperating fully with the CFPB and the attorney generals but are not in a position at this time to predict the duration or outcome of the investigation. Given the timeframe covered by this demand and the focus on practices and procedures previously conducted by Navient and its servicing subsidiaries, Navient is leading the response to this investigation and has accepted responsibility for all costs, expenses, losses or remediation that may arise from this investigation. &#32; 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the &#8220;FDIA&#8221;) requires the federal bank regulatory agencies such as the FDIC to prescribe, by regulation or guidance, operational and managerial standards for all insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, relating to internal controls, information systems and audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, and asset quality. The agencies also must prescribe standards for asset quality, earnings, and stock valuation, as well as standards for compensation, fees and benefits. The federal banking regulators have implemented these required standards through regulations and interagency guidance designed to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. Under the regulations, if a regulator determines a bank fails to meet any prescribed standards, the regulator may require the bank to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance, consistent with deadlines for the submission and review of such safety and soundness compliance plans. 

Dividends 

The Bank is chartered under the laws of the State of Utah and its deposits are insured by the FDIC. The Bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends is subject to the laws of Utah and the regulations of the FDIC. Generally, under Utah&#8217;s industrial bank laws and regulations as well as FDIC regulations, the Bank may pay dividends to the Company from its net profits without regulatory approval if, following the payment of the dividend, the Bank&#8217;s capital and surplus would not be impaired. The Bank paid no dividends for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the Bank paid dividends of $120 million to an entity that is now a subsidiary of Navient. For the foreseeable future, we expect the Bank to only pay dividends to the Company as may be necessary to provide for regularly scheduled dividends payable on the Company&#8217;s Series A and Series B Preferred Stock. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

The Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the FDIC and the UDFI. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Under the FDIC&#8217;s regulations implementing the Basel III capital framework (&#8220;U.S. Basel III&#8221;) and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Bank must meet specific capital standards that involve quantitative measures of its assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The Bank&#8217;s capital amounts and its classification under the prompt corrective action framework are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components of capital, risk weightings and other factors. 

As of January 1, 2015, the Bank was required to comply with U.S. Basel III. U.S. Basel III, which is aimed at increasing both the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establishes Common Equity Tier 1 as a new tier of capital and modifies methods for calculating risk-weighted assets, among other things. Certain aspects of U.S. Basel III, including new deductions from and adjustments to regulatory capital and a new capital conservation buffer, are being phased in over several years. 

The Bank is subject to the following minimum capital ratios under U.S. Basel III: a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0 percent, a Total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0 percent. In addition, the Bank is subject to a Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer, which will be phased in over three years beginning January 1, 2016: 0.625 percent of risk-weighted assets for 2016, 1.25 percent for 2017, and 1.875 percent for 2018, with the fully phased-in level of greater than 2.5 percent effective as of January 1, 2019. Failure to maintain the buffer will result in restrictions on the Bank&#8217;s ability to make capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. Including the buffer, by January 1, 2019, the Bank will be required to maintain the following minimum capital ratios: a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of greater than 7.0 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of greater than 8.5 percent and a Total risk-based capital ratio of greater than 10.5 percent. 

U.S. Basel III also revised the capital thresholds for the prompt corrective action framework for insured depository institutions. Effective January 1, 2015, to qualify as "well capitalized," the Bank must maintain a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.5 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.0 percent, a Total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0 percent, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5.0 percent. 

Stress Testing Requirements 

The Dodd-Frank Act imposes stress testing requirements on banking organizations with total consolidated assets, averaged over the four most recent consecutive quarters, of more than $10 billion. As of September 30, 2014, the Bank met this asset threshold. Under the FDIC&#8217;s implementing regulations, the Bank is required to conduct annual company-run stress tests utilizing scenarios provided by the FDIC and publish a summary of those results. The Bank must conduct its first annual stress test under the rules in the January 1, 2016 stress testing cycle and submit the results of that stress test to the FDIC by July 31, 2016. 

Deposit Insurance and Assessments 

Deposits at the Bank are insured up to the applicable legal limits by the FDIC - administered Deposit Insurance Fund (the "DIF"), which is funded primarily by quarterly assessments on insured banks. An insured bank's assessment is calculated by multiplying its assessment rate by its assessment base. A bank's assessment base and assessment rate are determined each quarter. 

The Bank&#8217;s insurance assessment base currently is its average consolidated total assets minus its average tangible equity during the assessment period. The Bank&#8217;s assessment rate is determined by the FDIC using a number of factors, including the results of supervisory evaluations, the Bank&#8217;s capital ratios and its financial condition, as well as the risk posed by the Bank to the DIF. Assessment rates for insured banks also are subject to adjustment depending on a number of factors, including significant holdings of brokered deposits in certain instances and the issuance or holding of certain types of debt. 

Deposits 

With respect to brokered deposits, an insured depository institution must be well-capitalized in order to accept, renew or roll over such deposits without FDIC clearance. An adequately capitalized insured depository institution must obtain a waiver from the FDIC to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits. Undercapitalized insured depository institutions generally may not accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits. For more information on the Bank&#8217;s deposits, see Item 7. &#8220;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8212; Key Financial Measures &#8212; Funding Sources&#8221;. 

Regulatory Examinations 

The Bank currently undergoes regular on-site examinations by the Bank&#8217;s regulators, which examine for adherence to a range of legal and regulatory compliance responsibilities. A regulator conducting an examination has complete access to the books and records of the examined institution. The results of the examination are confidential. The cost of examinations may be assessed against the examined institution as the agency deems necessary or appropriate. 

Source of Strength 

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to serve as a source of financial strength to the Bank and to commit resources to support the Bank in circumstances when we might not do so absent the statutory requirement. Any loan by us to the Bank would be subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of the Bank. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act requires the FDIC to evaluate the record of the Bank in meeting the credit needs of its local community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. These evaluations are considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility. Failure to adequately meet these criteria could result in additional requirements and limitations on the Bank. 

Privacy Laws 

The federal banking regulators, as required by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, have adopted regulations that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third-parties. Financial institutions are required to disclose to consumers their policies for collecting and protecting confidential customer information. Customers generally may prevent financial institutions from sharing nonpublic personal financial information with nonaffiliated third-parties, with some exceptions, such as the processing of transactions requested by the consumer. Financial institutions generally may not disclose certain consumer or account information to any nonaffiliated third-party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing. The privacy regulations also restrict information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes and govern the use and provision of information to consumer reporting agencies. Federal and state banking agencies have prescribed standards for maintaining the security and confidentiality of consumer information, and the Bank is subject to such standards, as well as certain federal and state laws or standards for notifying consumers in the event of a security breach. 

Other Sources of Regulation 

Many other aspects of our businesses are subject to federal and state regulation and administrative oversight. Some of the most significant of these are described below. 

Oversight of Derivatives 

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act requires all standardized derivatives, including most interest rate swaps, to be submitted for clearing to central counterparties to reduce counterparty risk. As of December 31, 2015, $4.9 billion notional of our derivative contracts were cleared on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the London Clearing House. All derivative contracts cleared through an exchange require collateral to be exchanged based on the fair value of the derivative. Our exposure is limited to the value of the derivative contracts in a gain position net of any collateral we are holding. We have liquidity exposure related to collateral movements between us and our derivative counterparties. Movements in the value of the derivatives, which are primarily affected by changes in interest rates, may require us to return cash collateral held or may require us to access primary liquidity to post collateral to counterparties. 

Credit Risk Retention 

In October 2014, the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the FDIC, the SEC, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development issued final rules to implement the credit risk retention requirements of Section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Act for ABS, including those backed by residential and commercial mortgages and automobile, commercial, credit card, and student loans, except for certain transactions with limited connections to the United States and U.S. investors. The regulations generally require securitizers of asset-backed securities, such as Sallie Mae, to retain at least five percent of the credit risk of the assets being securitized. The final rules provide reduced risk retention requirements for securitization transactions collateralized solely (excluding servicing assets) by FFELP loans. The regulations took effect in December 2015 for securitization transactions backed by residential mortgages and will take effect in December 2016 for any other securitization transaction, including those collateralized by Private Education Loans. Prior to December 2016, however, certain on-balance sheet securitizations (including those involving Private Education Loans) sponsored by an FDIC-insured institution and utilizing the FDIC "safe harbor" to reduce the risk to securitization investors in the event of an insolvency of the insured institution may also be subject to the credit risk retention requirements. 

Anti-Money Laundering, the USA PATRIOT Act, and U.S. Economic Sanctions 

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the &#8220;USA Patriot Act&#8221;), which amended the Bank Secrecy Act, substantially broadened the scope of United States anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued and, in some cases proposed, a number of regulations that apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions such as the Bank. These regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate internal policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. In addition, U.S. law generally prohibits or substantially restricts U.S. persons from doing business with countries designated by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism, which currently are Iran, Sudan and Syria. Under U.S. law, there are similar prohibitions or restrictions with countries subject to other U.S. economic sanctions administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control or other agencies. We maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with relevant U.S. laws and regulations applicable to U.S. persons. 

Volcker Rule 

In December 2013, the U.S. banking agencies, the SEC and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission issued final rules to implement the &#8220;Volcker Rule&#8221; provisions of Dodd-Frank. The rules prohibit insured depository institutions and their affiliates (collectively, &#8220;banking entities&#8221;) from engaging in proprietary trading and from investing in, sponsoring, or having certain financial relationships with certain private funds. These prohibitions are subject to a number of important exclusions 

and exemptions that, for example, permit banking entities to trade for risk mitigating hedging and liquidity management, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. A conformance period ended on July 21, 2015. We do not expect the Volcker Rule to have a meaningful effect on our current operations or those of our subsidiaries, as we do not materially engage in the businesses prohibited by the Volcker Rule. We may incur costs in connection with implementing the compliance program required by the Volcker Rule, but any such costs are not expected to be material. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 1,200 employees, none of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 

