 Item 1. Business 

We are a Fortune 500 corporation and a leading business process services company, offering a comprehensive range of services to resellers, retailers, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, financial and insurance institutions and several other industry verticals worldwide. Our primary business process services are wholesale IT integration and distribution and outsourcing services focused on end-to-end customer engagement strategy and process optimization that help to create improved business outcomes. We operate in two segments: Technology Solutions and Concentrix. Our Technology Solutions segment distributes peripherals, IT systems including data center server and storage solutions, system components, software, networking/communications/security equipment, consumer electronics, or CE, and complementary products. Within our Technology Solutions segment, we also provide systems design and integration solutions. Our Concentrix segment offers a portfolio of strategic solutions and end-to-end business services focused on customer engagement strategy, process optimization, technology innovation, front and back-office automation and business transformation to clients in ten identified industry verticals. 

In our Technology Solutions segment, we purchase peripherals, IT systems, system components, software, networking/communications/security equipment, CE and complementary products from our suppliers and sell them to our reseller and retail customers. We perform a similar function for our distribution of licensed software products. We distribute more than 30,000 technology products (as measured by active SKUs) from more than 300 IT, CE and OEM suppliers to more than 20,000 resellers, system integrators, and retailers throughout the United States, Canada and Japan. Our reseller customers include value-added resellers, or VARs, corporate resellers, government resellers, system integrators, direct marketers, and national and regional retailers. We combine our core strengths in distribution with demand generation, supply chain management and design and integration solutions to help our customers achieve greater efficiencies in time to market, cost minimization, real-time linkages in the supply chain and after-market product support. We also provide comprehensive IT solutions in key vertical markets such as government and healthcare and we provide specialized service offerings that increase efficiencies in the areas of print management, renewals, networking, logistics services and supply chain management. Additionally, we provide our 

&#32;1 

customers with systems design and integration solutions for data center servers, storage and networking solutions built specific to our customers' workloads and data center environments. 

Our Technology Solutions business is characterized by low gross profit as a percentage of revenue, or gross margin, and low income from operations as a percentage of revenue, or operating margin. The market for IT and CE products is generally characterized by declining unit prices and short product life cycles. We set our sales price based on the market supply and demand characteristics for each particular product or bundle of products we distribute and services we provide. 

In our Technology Solutions segment, we are highly dependent on the end-market demand for IT and CE products and services. This end-market demand is influenced by many factors including the introduction of new IT and CE products and software by OEMs, replacement cycles for existing IT and CE products, overall economic growth and general business activity. A difficult and challenging economic environment may also lead to consolidation or decline in the IT and CE industries and increased price-based competition. 

In our Concentrix segment, we provide a comprehensive range of strategic services and solutions to enhance our clients' customer life cycles to acquire, support and renew customer relationships, to automate and optimize processes, to maximize the value of every customer interaction and to improve business outcomes. Our portfolio of services includes end-to-end process outsourcing to customers in various industry vertical markets delivered through omni-channels that include both voice and non-voice mediums and in more than 40 languages. Our portfolio of solutions and services support our clients and their customers globally. 

Our Concentrix segment generates revenue from performing services that are generally tied to our clients' products and services and how they are received in the marketplace. Any shift in business or size of the market for our customers' products, any failure of technology or failure of acceptance of our customers' products in the market may impact our business. The employee turnover rate in this business and the risk of losing experienced employees is high. Higher turnover rates can increase costs and decrease operating efficiencies and productivity. 

Financial information by segment is provided in our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 

As of November 30, 2015 , we had over 78,000 full-time and temporary employees worldwide. From a geographic perspective, approximately 74% , 72% , and 74% &#32;of our total revenue was from the United States for fiscal years 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. The revenue attributable to countries is based on the geographical locations from where products are delivered and from where customer service contracts are managed. 

We have been in business since 1980 and are headquartered in Fremont, California. We have significant operations in North and South America, Asia-Pacific and Europe. We were originally incorporated in the State of California as COMPAC Microelectronics, Inc. in November 1980, and we changed our name to SYNNEX Information Technologies, Inc. in February 1994. We later reincorporated in the State of Delaware under the name of SYNNEX Corporation in October 2003. 

Our Products and Suppliers &#160; 

In our Technology Solutions segment, we distribute a broad line of IT products, including peripherals, IT systems, system components, software and networking equipment from more than 300 OEM suppliers, enabling us to offer comprehensive solutions to our reseller and retail customers. Our Technology Solutions segment represented 89% , 92% &#32;and 98% &#32;of our consolidated revenue for fiscal years 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

For fiscal year 2015 , our product mix by category was in the following ranges: &#160; 

Product Category: 

&#160; 

Peripherals 

28% - 32% 

IT Systems 

27% - 31% 

System Components and Integration Solutions 

20% - 24% 

Software 

10% - 14% 

Networking Equipment 

5% - 9% 

Our suppliers include leading peripherals, IT systems, system components, software, networking equipment and CE manufacturers. Our primary OEM suppliers are Asus Tek Computer Inc., HP Inc. (formerly Hewlett-Packard Company) (&#8220;HP&#8221;), Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Intel Corporation, Lenovo Group Ltd, Lexmark International Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Panasonic Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Seagate Technologies LLC and Xerox Corporation. 

&#32;2 

Our largest OEM supplier is HP. Revenue from the sale of products and services provided by HP represented approximately 25% , 25% &#32;and 31% &#32;of our consolidated revenue for fiscal years 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. As is typical with our OEM supplier agreements, our United States Business Development Partner Agreement with HP is short-term and may be terminated without cause upon short notice. In the event of any breach of the agreement by us, HP may terminate the agreement and we may be required to refund HP any discounts or program payments paid during the period we were in breach of the agreement and reimburse HP for reasonable attorneys&#8217; fees. In the event the agreement is terminated for cause or if we fail to perform our obligations under the agreement, our agreement with HP for the resale of products, support and services will automatically terminate upon such default or termination. If either party becomes insolvent or bankrupt, the other party may terminate the agreement without notice and cancel any unfulfilled obligations, except for payment obligations. Some of our subsidiaries also have territorial supplier agreements with subsidiaries of HP located in the respective countries. 

We have distribution agreements with most of our suppliers, including HP. These agreements usually provide for nonexclusive distribution rights and pertain to specific geographic territories. The agreements are also generally short-term, subject to periodic renewal, and often contain provisions permitting termination by either our supplier or us without cause upon relatively short notice. An OEM supplier that elects to terminate a distribution agreement will generally repurchase its products carried in our inventory. 

Our Technology Solutions business subjects us to the risk that the value of our inventory will be affected adversely by suppliers&#8217; price reductions or by technological changes affecting the usefulness or desirability of the products comprising our inventory. Many of our OEM suppliers offer us limited protection from the loss in value of our inventory due to technological change or a supplier&#8217;s price reduction. Under many of these agreements, we have a limited period of time to return or exchange products or claim price protection credits. We monitor our inventory levels and attempt to time our purchases to maximize our protection under supplier programs. 

Our Customers &#160; 

In our Technology Solutions segment, we distribute IT products to more than 20,000 resellers, system integrators and retailers. Resellers are classified primarily by their end-user customers. End-users include large corporations or enterprises, federal, state and local governments, small/medium sized businesses, or SMBs, and individual consumers. In addition, resellers vary greatly in size and geographic reach. Our reseller customers buy from us and other distributors. Our larger reseller customers also buy certain products directly from OEM suppliers. System integrators offer services in addition to product resale, primarily in systems customization, integration, and deployment. Retailers serve mostly individual end-users and to a small degree, small office/home office customers. We also provide system design and integration solutions for data center servers and storage solutions built for our customers' data center environments. 

In our Concentrix segment, we serve over 300 clients, primarily in ten industry verticals: automotive, banking &#38; financial services, CE, government &#38; public sector, healthcare &#38; pharmaceuticals, insurance, media &#38; communications, retail &#38; e-commerce, travel transportation &#38; tourism and technology. 

In fiscal years 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , no &#32;customer accounted for 10% &#32;or more of our consolidated revenue. 

Our Services and Solutions &#160; 

We offer a variety of business process services to our customers. These services can be purchased individually or they can be purchased in combination with others in the form of supply chain solutions and after-market product support. The two major categories of services and solutions include Technology Solutions and Concentrix: 

Technology Solutions. &#32; We have sophisticated pick, pack and ship operations, which allows us to efficiently receive shipments from our OEM suppliers and quickly fill orders for our reseller and retail customers. We generally stock or otherwise have access to the inventory of our OEM suppliers to satisfy the demands of our reseller and retail customers. In addition, we design and integrate energy efficient and cost effective data center servers and storage solutions which are built specific to the data center environments and actual workloads of our large scale data center customers. 

The above services are complemented by the following: 

Systems Design and Integration Solutions. We provide our customers with systems design and full rack integration solutions, build-to-order, and configure-to-order assembly capabilities. In both of these cases, we offer design, integration, test and other production value-added solutions such as thermal testing, power-draw efficiency testing, burn-in, quality and logistics support. 

Logistics Services. &#32;We provide logistics support to our reseller customers such as outsourced fulfillment, virtual distribution and direct ship to end-users. Other logistics support activities we provide include generation of customized 

&#32;3 

shipping documents, multi-level serial number tracking for customized, configured products and online order and shipment tracking. We also offer full turn-key logistics solutions designed to address the needs of large volume or specialty logistics services. Our full turn-key service offering is modular in nature and is designed to cover all aspects of the logistics life cycle including, transportation management, inventory optimization, complementary product matching, reverse logistics, asset refurbishment and disposal and strategic procurement. &#160; 

Online Services. &#32;We maintain electronic data interchange, or EDI, extensible markup language or XML, web-based communication links and mobile applications with many of our reseller and retail customers. These links improve the speed and efficiency of our transactions with our customers by enabling them to search for products, check inventory availability and prices, configure systems, place and track orders, receive invoices, review account status and process returns. We also have web-based application software that allows our customers or their end-user customers to order software and take delivery online. &#160; 

Financing Services. &#32;We offer our reseller customers a wide range of financing options, including net terms, third party leasing, floor plan financing and letters-of-credit backed financing and arrangements where we collect payments directly from the end-user. The availability and terms of our financing services are subject to our credit policies or those of third party financing providers to our customers. &#160; 

Marketing Services. &#32;We offer our OEM suppliers a full range of marketing activities targeting resellers, system integrators and retailers including direct mail, external media advertising, reseller product training, targeted telemarketing campaigns, national and regional trade shows, trade groups, database analysis, print on demand services and web-based marketing. &#160; 

Concentrix. &#32; Our Concentrix segment represented 11% &#32;of our consolidated revenue in fiscal year 2015 , 8% &#32;in fiscal year 2014 &#32;and 2% &#32;in fiscal year 2013 . We offer a portfolio of comprehensive solutions and end-to-end business services to enhance our clients&#8217; customer life cycles, to acquire, support and renew customer relationships, to automate and optimize processes, to maximize the value of every customer interaction, and to improve business outcomes, primarily in ten identified industry verticals. Our Concentrix segment portfolio also includes technology assets and embedded analytics. We operate approximately 90 &#32;delivery centers and administrative facilities in numerous countries throughout North and South America, Asia-Pacific and Europe. Services are provided from these global locations to customers worldwide in more than 40 languages. 

Sales and Marketing &#160; 

In our Technology Solutions segment, we serve our large commercial, government reseller, and retail customers through dedicated sales professionals. We market to smaller resellers and OEMs through dedicated regional sales teams. In addition, we have dedicated product management and business development specialists that focus on the sale and promotion of products and services of selected suppliers or for specific end-market verticals. These specialists are also directly involved in establishing new relationships with leading OEMs to create demand for their products and services and with resellers for their customers&#8217; needs. Our sales and marketing professionals are complemented by members of our executive management team who are integral in identifying potential new customer opportunities, promoting sales growth and ensuring customer satisfaction. We have sales and marketing professionals in close geographic proximity to our reseller, retail and OEM customers. &#160; 

In our Concentrix segment, we market our services through a sales force organized by industry vertical and geography. The length of our selling cycle varies depending on the type of engagement. &#32; Our efforts may begin in response to our lead generation program, a perceived opportunity, a reference by an existing client, a request for proposal or otherwise. The sales cycle varies depending on the type of services work as well as whether there is an existing relationship with the client. 

We have designated client partners or global relationship managers for each of our strategic relationships. The relationship manager is supported by process improvement, quality, transition, finance, human resources, information technology and industry/ subject matter expert teams to ensure the best possible solution is provided to our clients. 

We also strive to foster relationships between our senior leadership team and our clients&#8217; senior management. These &#8220;C-level&#8221; relationships ensure that both parties are focused on establishing priorities, aligning objectives and driving client value from the top down. High-level executive relationships have been particularly constructive as a means of increasing business from our existing clients. It also provides us with a forum for addressing client concerns. We constantly measure our client satisfaction levels to ensure that we maintain high service levels for each client. 

Our Operations &#160; 

In our Technology Solutions segment, we operate approximately 40 &#32;distribution and administrative facilities in the United States, Canada, Japan, China and Mexico. Our distribution processes are highly automated to reduce errors, ensure timely order fulfillment and enhance the efficiency of our warehouse operations and back office administration. Our distribution facilities 

&#32;4 

are geographically dispersed to be near reseller customers and their end-users. This decentralized, regional strategy enables us to benefit from lower shipping costs and shorter delivery lead times to our customers. Furthermore, we track several performance measurements to continuously improve the efficiency and accuracy of our distribution operations. Our regional locations also enable us to make local deliveries and provide will-call fulfillment to more customers than if our distribution operations were more centralized, resulting in better service to our customers. Our workforce is comprised of permanent and temporary employees, enabling us to respond to short-term changes in order activity. 

Our proprietary IT systems and processes enable us to automate many of our distribution operations. We use radio frequency and bar code scanning technologies in all of our warehouse operations to maintain real-time inventory records, facilitate frequent cycle counts and improve the accuracy of order fulfillment. 

To enhance the accuracy of our distribution order fulfillment and protect our inventory from shrinkage, our distribution systems also incorporate numerous controls. These controls include order weight checks, bar code scanning, and serial number profile verification. We also use digital video imaging to record our small package shipping activities by order. These images and other warehouse and shipping data are available online to our customer service representatives, enabling us to quickly respond to order inquiries by our customers. 

We operate our principal system design and integration solutions facilities in the United States and we operate an integration facility in the United Kingdom. We generally design and integrate IT systems, data center servers, storage and networking solutions and IT appliances, by incorporating system components purchased directly from vendors or obtained from our distribution inventory. Additionally, we perform other production value-added services, including thermal testing, power-draw efficiency testing, burn-in, quality and logistics support. Our design and integration solutions facilities are ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 certified. 

In our Concentrix segment, we operate approximately 90 &#32;delivery centers and administrative facilities in numerous countries throughout North and South America, Asia-Pacific and Europe. Services are provided from these global locations to customers worldwide in multiple languages. These services are supported by proprietary technology to enable efficient and secure customer contact through various methods including voice, chat, web, email, social media and digital print. 

Concentrix has global delivery capability which allows us to scale people and other resources from around the world, including foreign language fluency, proximity to clients and time-zone advantages. A critical component of this capability are our approximately 90 &#32;delivery centers in &#32; 25 countries. Our delivery centers improve the efficiency of our engagement teams through the reuse of processes, solution designs and infrastructure by leveraging the experience of delivery center professionals. 

International Operations &#160; 

Approximately 26% &#32;of our total revenue for fiscal year 2015 , 28% &#32;for fiscal year 2014 &#32;and 26% &#32;for fiscal year 2013 , originated outside of the United States. Approximately 11% &#32;of our total revenue for fiscal year 2015 , 12% &#32;for fiscal year 2014 &#32;and 14% &#32;for fiscal year 2013 &#32;were generated in Canada. Approximately 8% &#32;of our total revenue for fiscal year 2015 &#32;and 10% &#32;for both fiscal years 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;were generated in Japan. During the fiscal years ended November 30, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , no &#32;other country represented more than 10% of total revenue. A key element in our business strategy has been to locate our Concentrix services in markets that are cost beneficial, but low risk. Our end market strategy for our Technology Solutions business, while focused on North America, is expanded internationally on a selective basis in order to provide our distribution capabilities to OEMs in locations that meet their regional requirements. 

Sales concentrations in foreign jurisdictions subject us to various risks, including the impact of changes in the value of these foreign currencies relative to the US Dollar, which in turn can impact reported sales. 

Approximately 48% &#32;and 50% &#32;of our net property and equipment were located in the United States and approximately 11% &#32;and 13% &#32;of our net property and equipment were located in the Philippines as of November 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. As of both November 30, 2015 and 2014, no other country represented more than 10% of our net property and equipment. 

Seasonality 

Our operating results in the Technology Solutions segment are affected by the seasonality of the IT and CE products industries. We have historically experienced higher sales in our fourth fiscal quarter due to patterns in capital budgeting, federal government spending and purchasing cycles of our customers and end-users. These patterns may not be repeated in subsequent periods. 

&#32;5 

Our revenues in the Concentrix segment are typically higher in the third and fourth quarters than in other quarters, as a result of several factors. We generally find that demand for customer engagement services increases in the third and fourth quarter based on seasonal patterns in our clients' businesses. In addition, contracts for customer relationship engagements are often signed in the first and second quarters as clients begin new budget cycles. Volumes under such contracts then increase in the latter part of the year. 

Purchasing 

In our Technology Solutions segment, product cost represents our single largest expense and IT and CE product inventory is one of our largest working capital investments. Furthermore, product procurement from our OEM suppliers is a highly complex process that involves incentive programs, rebate programs, price protection, volume and early payment discounts and other arrangements. Consequently, efficient and effective purchasing operations are critical to our success. 

Our purchasing group works closely with many areas of our organization, especially our product managers who work closely with our OEM suppliers and our sales force, to understand the volume and mix of IT products that should be purchased. In addition, the purchasing group utilizes an internally developed, proprietary information systems application tool that further aids in forecasting future product demand based on several factors, including historical sales levels, expected product life cycle and current and projected economic conditions. Our information system tool also tracks warehouse and channel inventory levels and open purchase orders on a real-time basis enabling us to stock inventory at a regional level closer to the customer as well as to actively manage our working capital resources. This level of automation promotes greater efficiencies of inventory management by replenishing and turning inventory, as well as placing purchase orders on a more frequent basis. Furthermore, our system tool also allows for automated checks and controls to prevent the generation of inaccurate orders. 

Managing our OEM supplier incentive programs is another critical function of our purchasing and product management teams. We attempt to maximize the benefits of incentives, rebates and volume and early payment discounts that our OEM suppliers offer us from time to time. We carefully evaluate these supplier incentive benefits relative to our product handling and carrying costs so that we do not over-invest in our inventory. We also closely monitor inventory levels on a product-by-product basis and plan purchases to take advantage of OEM supplier provided price protection. By managing inventory levels and monitoring customer purchase patterns at each of our regional distribution facilities, we believe we can minimize our shipping costs by stocking products near our resellers and retailers, and their end-user customers. 

Financial Services &#160; 

In our Technology Solutions segment, we offer various financing options to our customers as well as prepayment, credit card and cash on delivery terms. In issuing credit terms to our reseller and retail customers, we closely and regularly monitor their creditworthiness through our information systems, credit ratings information and periodic detailed credit file reviews by our financial services staff. We have also purchased credit insurance in some geographies to further control credit risks. Finally, we establish reserves for estimated credit losses in the normal course of business based on the overall quality and aging of our accounts receivable portfolio, the existence of a limited amount of credit insurance and specifically identified customer risks. 

We also sell to certain reseller customers pursuant to third party floor plan financing. The expenses charged by these financing companies are subsidized either by our OEM suppliers or paid by us. We generally receive payment from these financing companies within 15 to 30 days from the date of sale, depending on the specific arrangement. 

Information Technology &#160; 

Within our Technology Solutions segment, our IT systems manage the entire order cycle, including processing customer orders, customer billing and payment tracking. These internally developed IT systems make our operations more efficient and provide visibility into our operations. We believe our IT infrastructure is scalable to support further growth. We continue to enhance and invest in our IT systems to improve product and inventory management, streamline order and fulfillment processes, and increase operational flexibility. Within our Concentrix segment, we invest in IT systems and infrastructure to enhance workforce management and improve productivity. 

To allow our customers and suppliers to communicate and transact business with us in an efficient and consistent manner, we have implemented a mix of proprietary and off-the-shelf software programs that integrate our IT systems with those of our customers and suppliers. In particular, we maintain EDI, XML, web-based communication links and mobile platform applications with many of our reseller and retail customers to enable them to search for products, check real-time pricing, inventory availability and specifications, place and track orders, receive invoices and process returns. 

&#32;6 

Competition &#160; 

We operate in a highly competitive global environment. The IT product industry is characterized by intense competition, based primarily on product availability, credit terms, price, speed and accuracy of delivery, effectiveness of sales and marketing programs, ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality and depth of product lines, pre and post-sale technical support, flexibility and timely response to design changes, technological capabilities and product quality, service and support. We compete with a variety of regional, national and international IT product distributors and manufacturers. 

Our major competitors in our Technology Solutions segment include Arrow Electronics, Inc., Avnet, Inc., Ingram Micro, Inc., ScanSource, Inc., Tech Data Corporation and WestconGroup Inc. and, to a lesser extent, regional distributors. We also face competition from our OEM suppliers that sell directly to resellers, retailers and end-users. The distribution industry has historically undergone, and continues to undergo, consolidation. Over the years, a number of providers within the IT distribution industry exited or merged with other providers. We have participated in this consolidation through our acquisitions of Supercom Canada Limited, Marubeni Infotec Corporation, Jack of All Games and New Age Electronics, and we continue to evaluate other opportunities. 

As we enter new business areas, we may encounter increased competition from our current competitors and/or new competitors. Some of our competitors are substantially larger and may have greater financial, operating, manufacturing and marketing resources than us. Some of our competitors may have broader geographic breadth and range of services than us. Some may have more developed relationships with their existing customers. We attempt to offset our comparative scale differences by focusing on a limited number of leading OEMs in the Technology Solutions segment, by running a more efficient and low cost operation, and by offering a high level of value-added and customer services in both the Technology Solutions and Concentrix segments. 

In our Concentrix segment, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving global marketplace. Our competitors are both regional players as well as global companies. Our major competitors include Accenture, Convergys Corporation, Genpact Limited, SITEL Worldwide Corporation (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Groupe Acticall), Sutherland Global Services, Inc. (a privately owned company), Sykes Enterprises Inc., Teleperformance and TeleTech Holdings, Inc. In addition, a client or potential client may choose not to outsource its business, by setting up captive outsourcing operations or by performing formerly outsourced services for themselves. 

We constantly seek to expand our business into areas primarily related to our core distribution and outsourced business services as well as other support, logistics and related value-added services. 

Employees &#160; 

As of November 30, 2015 , we had approximately 72,500 &#32;full-time employees. Given the variability in our business and the quick response time required by customers, it is critical that we are able to rapidly ramp-up and ramp-down our operational capabilities to maximize efficiency. As a result, we frequently use temporary or contract workers, who totaled approximately 6,000 , on a full-time equivalent basis, as of November 30, 2015 . Except for our employees in China, our employees are not represented by a labor union, nor are they covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

Available Information 

Our website is http://www.synnex.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, if any, or other filings filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Information contained on our website is not a part of this Report. We have adopted a code of ethics applicable to our employees including our principal executive, financial and accounting officers, and it is available free of charge, on our website&#8217;s investor relations page. 

The SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, if any, or other filings filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, and our proxy and information statements. All reports that we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC, 20549. Information about the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

&#32;7 

