 Item 1 . Business 

Unless the context requires otherwise, "we," "us" or "our" refers to Stericycle, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. 

Overview 

Services 

Stericycle is a business-to-business services provider with a focus on regulated and compliance solutions for healthcare, retail, and commercial businesses. This includes the collection and processing of regulated and specialized waste for disposal and the collection of personal and confidential information for secure destruction, plus a variety of training, consulting, recall/return, communication, and compliance services. We operate integrated operations and customer service networks in the United States and 21 other countries. Our worldwide networks include a total of 253 &#32;processing facilities, 358 &#32;transfer sites, and 137 &#32;other service facilities. Our solutions for regulated or specialty waste streams include: medical waste disposal, pharmaceutical waste disposal, hazardous waste management, sustainability solutions for expired or unused inventory, and secure information destruction of documents and e-media. Our compliance solutions include: training and consulting through our Steri-Safe &#174; &#32;and Clinical Services programs, inbound/outbound communications, data reporting, and other regulatory compliance services. Our regulated recall and returns management solutions consist of communication, logistics, and data management services to support the recall, withdrawal, or return of expired or recalled products. 

More specifically, our services and products include: 

&#8226; Medical waste management services 

&#8226; Reusable sharps disposal management services 

&#8226; Pharmaceutical waste services 

&#8226; Integrated Waste Stream Solutions ("IWSS") program 

&#8226; Hazardous waste management services 

&#8226; Sustainability and recycling services for expired or unused inventory 

&#8226; Shred-it secure information destruction services 

&#8226; Steri-Safe &#174; &#32;and Clinical Services compliances programs 

&#8226; Regulated recall and returns management services for expired or recalled products 

&#8226; Communication services including afterhours answering, appointment scheduling, appointment reminders, secure messaging, and event registration 

&#8226; Mailback solutions for regulated medical waste, universal wastes, pharmaceutical wastes, and other specialty wastes 

Customers 

Our broad offering of services appeals to a wide range of business customers. While healthcare businesses (hospitals, physician and dental practices, outpatient clinics, long-term care facilities, etc.) make the largest portion of customers, we also provide services to retailers, manufacturers, financial services providers, professional services providers, governmental entities, and other businesses. The majority of our customers are small businesses generating low volumes of regulated wastes or materials for disposal or destruction and having compliance needs consistent 

with a small staff or facility. However, we also provide services to large customers, which include hospitals, manufacturers, and laboratories. 

In total, we serve more than 1,000,000 customers worldwide. No single customer accounts for more than 1.5% &#32;of our total revenues, and our top ten customers collectively account for approximately 8.0% &#32;of total revenues. We provide service to the majority of these customers through multi-year contracts. Although we have several standard forms of contract, terms vary depending upon the customer&#8217;s service requirements, the volume of regulated waste or material generated, or other factors including statutory and regulatory requirements. 

Business Strategy 

Focus on Regulated Business-to-Business Operations 

We have a focus on business-to-business services in areas of operations that are highly regulated. By helping our customers maintain compliance with complex regulations, we protect people and brands, promote health, and safeguard the environment. Governmental legislation and regulation increasingly requires the proper handling and disposal of items such as medical waste, hazardous waste, pharmaceutical waste, and personal and confidential information. Regulated waste can be defined as any material with government-imposed guidelines for handling the material for transportation or disposal. Medical waste, such as needles, syringes, gloves, cultures and stocks of infectious agents, blood and blood products, can potentially cause an infectious disease. Hazardous waste is designated and governed by federal and local environmental protection agencies but generally includes waste that is considered dangerous or potentially harmful to our health or the environment. Hazardous wastes can be liquids, solids, gases, or sludges. Pharmaceutical waste may be hazardous or nonhazardous and consists of expired, recalled, or otherwise unused pharmaceuticals. Personal and confidential information includes documents and e-media containing protected healthcare information, financial information, or other confidential information. Additionally, the regulatory environment related to promoting overall health and protecting consumers from unsafe products continues to increase, especially in the United States. 

Focus on the Small Customer with Recurring Service Need 

Our business strategy recognizes that smaller businesses have an even greater need for support with compliance matters since they tend to lack the specialization of staff resources that is found among larger businesses. With a small business, regulatory and compliance matters are often managed by a business owner, office manager, or facility supervisor who manage multiple functions for the organization and often lack the time and resources to properly investigate and comply with a wide range of regulations that may impact their operation. In response to this unmet need of small businesses, we developed comprehensive, no-hassle compliance programs which feature scheduled service at low, flat monthly fees. This business fundamental has guided us as we have expanded into additional service offerings including hazardous or pharmaceutical waste management, communication services, and secure information destruction. 

Organic Growth 

As a leading provider in regulated and compliance solutions, we continue to focus on enhancing our service offerings and platforms to exceed customer expectations. We have developed a strong and loyal customer base, with a revenue retention rate exceeding 90%, and have been able to leverage these customer relationships to provide additional services. Allocation of our sales resources has and will continue to focus on driving incremental organic growth from cross selling and upselling various services in our portfolio. 

Growth through Acquisition 

The various regulated waste and compliance services that we provide tend to be in highly fragmented industries. We have proved that acquisitions are a rapid and efficient way to scale operations, build critical customer density for transportation and treatment operations, and enter new markets or geographies, as well as an opportunity to introduce our additional services to the acquired customers. In our early history, acquisitions were a key strategy to building our customer base and route density in the United States. Beginning in 1998, we were able to expand internationally through acquisition and now operate in 21 different markets outside the U.S. Over our history, Stericycle has completed 435 acquisitions, with 230 in the United States and 205 internationally. During 2015, we completed 43 acquisitions. In addition to the Shred-it acquisition, which increased our international footprint by adding 8 countries we were not currently operating in, our acquisitions consisted of 19 domestic businesses and 24 international businesses. 

The acquisition of Shred-it International ULC, the largest acquisition in Stericycle&#8217;s history, was completed on October 1, 2015. The acquisition expands our portfolio of services by adding secure information destruction, a highly complementary service to our regulated waste and compliance services. Shred-it adds substantially to Stericycle&#8217;s operational infrastructure bringing approximately 2,400 trucks and 5,400 team members based out of more than 200 facilities in 13 countries, including the United States. The acquisition provides operational synergies stemming from our core competencies in route logistics and lean management systems and a focus on small and loyal customers providing opportunities for growth from the cross sale of additional services. 

We expect to continue our acquisition strategy in North America and internationally, remaining focused on small, highly accretive, tuck in acquisitions that broaden our various service capabilities while creating value for our shareholders. 

Market Size and Growth Potential 

We provide a wide range of services across multiple market segments and industries. We believe that in 2016, the size of the global market for the services we provide, in the geographies we currently operate in, is approximately $33 billion. Industry growth is driven by a number of factors. These factors include: 

&#8226; Aging of Population: &#32;The average age of the population in the countries where we operate is rising. As people age, they typically require more medical attention and a wider variety of tests, procedures and medications, leading to an increase in the quantity of regulated medical waste, hazardous waste, and pharmaceutical waste, as well as an increase in confidential healthcare records requiring secure destruction. 

&#8226; Pressure to Reduce Healthcare Costs: &#32;The healthcare industry is under pressure to reduce costs. We believe that our services can help healthcare providers to reduce their handling and compliance costs and to reduce their potential liability for employee exposure to bloodborne pathogens and other infectious agents. In addition, hospital institutions and smaller healthcare practices continue to outsource compliance, communication, and secure information destruction services which we can provide. 

&#8226; Enforcement of Regulations: &#32; Enforcement of regulations relating to the management of regulated waste and protected information is increasing. Penalties for violations can be costly as well as high profile thereby impacting a business&#8217; overall reputation. Greater enforcement combined with higher penalties results in more compliance by waste generators and a corresponding increase in potential customers. 

&#8226; Safety and Security Regulation: &#32;We believe that many businesses that are not currently using third party regulated waste management or secure information destruction services are unaware either of the need for proper training of employees or of the regulatory requirements regarding the handling of such materials. Similarly, the proper handling of expired or recalled products requires an expertise that many businesses lack or find inefficient to provide. 

&#8226; Increased Business Focus on Sustainability: &#32;Businesses large and small continue to realize that focus on sustainability is now a business essential in order to operate efficiently and meet the increasing demands of customers for environmental responsibility. Such pressures are driving proper disposal of pharmaceuticals, recycling efforts, creative disposal efforts for unused inventory, shred-all policies for paper, and other initiates supported by our services. 

&#8226; Shift to Off-Site Healthcare Treatment: &#32;We believe that patient care in the U.S. is continuing to shift from institutional higher-cost acute-care settings to less expensive, smaller, off-site treatment alternatives, with a resulting increase in the number of healthcare providers generating regulated medical waste, pharmaceutical waste, and protected health information requiring secure destruction. 

&#8226; Regulation of Privacy and Information Security and Concerns over Data Breaches: &#32; Continued development and growth of the secure information destruction industry have been driven, in part, by compliance with government regulations in respect of privacy and information security. These regulations take different forms, with some requiring organizations to establish reasonable measures to protect against loss, theft and unauthorized access, use and disclosure, and others imposing data retention requirements that require businesses to destroy or render anonymous personal information when no longer required for a legal or legitimate business purpose. Secure information destruction services are increasingly a standard measure that organizations take to meet their legal safeguarding and retention requirements. 

&#8226; International Market Development: &#32;The development of regulated medical waste regulations, hazardous waste regulations, and secure information destruction regulations in certain international markets are at an early stage of development relative to North American and certain European Markets. As emerging markets continue to advance their healthcare practices, environmental controls, and their data privacy regulations, we expect to see further demand for our services on a global scale. 

Competitive Strengths 

We believe that we benefit from the following competitive strengths, among others: 

&#8226; Broad Range of Services: &#32;We offer our customers a broad range of services. We work with businesses across a number of industries such as healthcare, manufacturing, and retail to safely and efficiently dispose of regulated materials, ensure regulatory compliance, improve employee and customer safety, protect their brands, improve communications with patients, and manage corporate and personal risk. 

&#8226; Strong Service Relationships with Customers: We offer our customers necessary services which require access to our customers&#8217; facilities and operating information. This relationship, supported by a history of service, provides us with access to decision makers to offer additional opportunities. 

&#8226; Long-term Contracts: The majority of services we provide involve long-term contracts. 

&#8226; Established Network of Processing and Transportation Locations in Each Country: We believe that our infrastructure network results in a very efficient operation. The network also 

provides redundancy so that we can quickly redirect services or operations to another location should such needs exist due to severe weather, power outages, or other such situations. 

&#8226; Industry Leadership and Expertise: We maintain a global leadership position across our various services lines, including regulated medical waste, retail and healthcare hazardous waste, secure information destruction, and product recalls and returns. We believe that we maintain the most experienced teams, the deepest understanding of regulatory climate, and the thought leadership that drives progress in each of these industries. 

&#8226; Experienced Senior Management Team: &#32;We have experienced leadership. Our seven most senior executives collectively have over 155 years of management experience in the health care and waste management industries. 

&#8226; Ability to Integrate Acquisitions: &#32;Since 1993 we have completed 435 acquisitions in the United States and internationally and have demonstrated a consistent ability to integrate our acquisitions into our operations successfully. 

&#8226; Volume-based Leverage for Disposal, Treatment or Recycling: As the leading service provider for regulated medical waste, hazardous waste, and secure information destruction, we can leverage large volumes of wastes, recyclables, and paper to obtain better pricing on final treatment, disposal and/or recycling. 

&#8226; Secure Management of Information for Destruction: With the acquisition of Shred-it, Stericycle is now the global leader in secure information destruction. Our process for managing information for destruction meet or exceed the NAID AAA Certification and support our customers&#8217; requirements in complying with GLBA, FACTA, and HIPAA in the U.S. and other data security regulations abroad. 

Regulated Waste and Secure Information Destruction Operations 

Collection and Transportation 

Logistics is a key element of our business, especially in regard to managing regulated waste and secure information destruction. Efficiency of collection and transportation is a critical element of our operations because it represents the largest component of our operating costs. 

For medical waste, hazardous waste, pharmaceutical waste, or secure information for destruction, the collection process begins at the customer location with segregation. To assure regulatory compliance, we will not accept regulated waste from customers unless it complies with our waste acceptance protocols and is properly stored or packaged in containers that we have either supplied or approved. 

Our fleet of transportation vehicles then collects containers at the customer location. The majority of collected waste is then transported directly to one of our processing facilities or to one of our transfer stations for further transport to a processing facility. Our use of transfer stations in a "hub and spoke" configuration improves the efficiency of our collection and transportation operations by expanding the geographic area that a particular processing facility can serve thereby increasing utilization of the facility by increasing the volume of waste that it processes. 

Processing and Disposal of Regulated Medical Waste 

Stericycle was founded on the belief that there was a need for safe, secure and environmentally responsible management of regulated medical waste. From our beginning, we have encouraged the use of non-incineration treatment technologies. While we recognize that some state regulations currently mandate that some types of regulated waste must be incinerated, we also know from years of experience working with our customers that there are ways to reduce the amount of 

regulated waste that is ultimately incinerated. The most effective strategy that we have seen involves comprehensive education of our customers in waste minimization and segregation. 

Upon arrival at a processing facility, containers or boxes of regulated waste undergo a quality control process to verify that they do not contain any unacceptable substances. Any container or box that is discovered to contain unacceptable waste goes through a corrective action process which could include redirecting the waste, returning the waste to the customer, and/or notifying the appropriate regulatory authorities. From there, regulated medical waste is processed using one of several treatments or processing technologies, predominantly at one of our wholly-owned facilities. 

&#8226; Autoclaving: &#32;Autoclaving treats regulated waste with steam at high temperature and pressure to kill pathogens. 

&#8226; Incineration: &#32;Incineration burns regulated waste at elevated temperatures and reduces it to ash. Incineration reduces the volume of waste, and it is the recommended treatment and disposal option for some types of regulated waste such as anatomical waste or residues from chemotherapy procedures and non-hazardous pharmaceutical waste. Air emissions from incinerators can contain certain byproducts that are subject to federal, state, and in some cases, local regulation. In some circumstances, the ash byproduct of incineration may be regulated. 

Upon completion of the particular process, the resulting waste or incinerator ash is transported for disposal in a landfill owned by unaffiliated third parties. 

Processing and Disposal of Hazardous Wastes 

Our technicians receive hazardous wastes either as expired goods requiring deconstruction or as defined hazardous wastes. Expired goods are deconstructed to recover metals and plastics for recycling thereby minimizing the total volume of waste disposed of as hazardous waste. Materials that are predefined as hazardous upon collection are bulked together or consolidated at treatment storage and disposal facilities for more efficient transport to final disposal or processing. Whenever possible, we seek sustainability solutions for managing materials including alternative uses, recovery processes, recycling options, fuel blending, or energy recovery. When sustainability options do not exist, these wastes are sent to third parties for incineration, landfill and water treatment. 

Destruction and Recycling of Secure Information 

If not sorted on site in a proprietary Shred-it information destruction truck, documents are sent to a shredding facility for secure destruction. Documents are cross-cut shredded and then baled to be sold as office paper (SOP) for recycling. 

Communication Solutions and Expert Solutions Business Overview 

Stericycle&#8217;s Communication Solutions provide a broad range of services to help our customers keep in touch with their patients and clients. These services include daytime and after hours answering, live voice scheduling, online self-scheduling, automated notifications, appointment follow-up, and on-hold messaging services. On a daily basis, we execute more than 350,000 automated communications and our agents conduct more than 100,000 live conversations on behalf of our customers. Providing these solutions requires sophisticated information management systems to redirect calls, store and quickly retrieve live voice protocols, or send automated communications as well as provide easily accessible reporting and activity details to our customers. To that end, we have developed a proprietary communications platform which manages call flows, messaging, and data tracking. This system is being launched during 2016 to connect our multiple call center locations onto one master information management system. 

Beyond the information management system infrastructure, call center staffing and education levels are critical to business success. We leverage sophisticated workflow analysis and staffing tools to ensure redundancies are in place in order to handle call volumes quickly and consistently across our multiple call centers during peak volumes. Maintaining consistent and quality responses to our customers&#8217; clients requires an educated staff of call center experts. We rely on a multi-level certification program that ensures our experts are appropriately suited to manage the dispatch methodology required for the specific call type. Training, retraining, and quality monitoring systems are critical to meeting the communication needs of our customers. 

Stericycle Expert Solutions acts as a business partner to automotive, food/beverage, medical device, pharmaceutical, and consumer goods manufacturers as well as retailers to guide them through a critical recall, retrieval, return, or audit processes. Our comprehensive suite of highly focused services provides global and local expertise before, during, and after a recall threat. Our services include: 

&#8226; Preparation and consulting 

&#8226; Notification services 

&#8226; Customer response 

&#8226; Product retrievals 

&#8226; Product processing, remedy and response 

&#8226; Compliance and regulatory reporting 

Stericycle entered the recall and returns business in 2006 as a service expansion that leveraged our expertise in communication, logistics, regulatory management and data tracking. Since that time, we&#8217;ve become an industry leader in outsourced recall management. Our expertise stemming from handling more than 4,000 recalls has established Stericycle as a foremost thought leader on recalls handling. This expertise includes a deep understanding of the regulatory climate surrounding consumer and healthcare products, including those established by the Food and Drug Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, and others. 

Competition 

The industries and markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and barriers to entry are low. Our competitors consist of many different types of service providers, including national, regional and local companies. In the regulated waste and secure information destruction industries, another major source of competition is on-site treatment. For regulated medical waste, some large-quantity generators, particularly hospitals may choose an onsite autoclave or other treatment process. For secure information destruction, many businesses may choose to use small, on-site shredders for their documents. Similarly, customers could handle recalls or communication solutions internally. 

In addition, we face potential competition from businesses that are attempting to commercialize a wide range of technologies that directly or indirectly reduce the need for regulated medical waste, hazardous waste or secure information destruction services. 

Governmental Regulation 

The regulated medical waste, hazardous waste, and secure information destruction industries are subject to numerous regulations. In many countries there are multiple regulatory agencies at the local and national level that affect our services. This statutory and regulatory framework imposes 

a variety of compliance requirements, including requirements to obtain and maintain government permits. We maintain numerous governmental permits, registrations, and licenses to conduct our business in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our permits vary by jurisdiction based upon our activities within that jurisdiction and on the applicable laws and regulations of that jurisdiction. These permits grant us the authority, among other things: 

&#8226; to construct and operate collection, transfer and processing facilities; 

&#8226; to transport regulated waste within and between relevant jurisdictions; and 

&#8226; to handle particular regulated substances. 

Our permits must be periodically renewed and are subject to modification or revocation by the issuing authority. Periodic renewals are subject to public participation and can lead to additional regulatory oversight. We are also subject to regulations that govern the definition, generation, segregation, handling, packaging, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of regulated waste. In addition, we are subject to extensive regulations to ensure public and employee health and safety. 

U.S. Federal and Foreign Regulation 

We are subject to substantial regulations enacted and enforced by the U.S. government and by the governments of the foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct regulated waste and secure information destruction operations. The specific statutory and regulatory requirements we must comply with vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The laws governing our domestic and international operations generally consist of statutes, legislation and regulations concerning environmental protection, employee health and welfare, transportation, the use of the mail, and proper handling and management of regulated waste streams, controlled substances and personal and confidential information. 

Environmental Protection 

Our business is subject to extensive and evolving environmental regulations in all of the geographies in which we operate. Generally, the environmental laws we are subject to regulate the handling, transporting, and disposing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, the release or threatened release of hazardous substances into the environment, the discharge of pollutants into streams, rivers, groundwater and other surface waters, and the emission of pollutants into the air. The principal environmental laws that govern our operations in the U.S. are state environmental regulatory agencies as they provide the specific legislative and or regulatory frameworks which require the management and treatment of regulated medical waste. Additionally, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 ("RCRA"), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("CERCLA"), and the Clean Air Act of 1970 are the federal regulations that affect management of certain aspects of regulated medical waste and all RCRA hazardous wastes. CERCLA and state laws similar to it may impose strict, joint and severe liabilities on the current and former owners and operators of facilities from which release of hazardous substances has occurred and on the generators and transporters of the hazardous substances that come to be located at these facilities. The ten incinerators at seven facilities we currently operate in the U.S. must comply with the emissions standards imposed by the applicable states permitting authorities pursuant to regulations promulgated under the Clean Air Act as well as state and/or municipal waste permit requirements. 

Examples of environmental laws applicable to our international operations include the Waste Framework Directive, Environmental Liabilities Directive, Integrated Pollution Prevention and 

Control Directive, and Waste Incineration Directive in the European Union ("EU"), the Waste Management Act in Ireland, Ley 154 (Residuos Patogenicos) in Argentina, Lei 12.305/2010 (Lei Ordin&#225;ria) Institui A Pol&#237;tica Nacional De Res&#237;duos S&#243;lidos in Brazil, and the Canadian Environmental Protection Act and related regulations in Canada. 

Employee Health and Welfare 

We are also subject to numerous regulations promulgated to protect and promote worker health and welfare through the implementation and enforcement of standards designed to prevent illness, injury and death in the workplace. The primary federal laws relating to employee health and welfare applicable to our business in the U.S. is the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 ("OSHA"), which establishes specific employer responsibilities including engineering controls, administrative controls, training, policies and programs complying with the regulations and ultimately recordkeeping and reporting, all in an effort to ensure a safe workplace. Various OSHA standards apply to almost all aspects of our operations and govern such matters as exposure to bloodborne pathogens, hazard communication, personal protective equipment, etc. 

Employee health and welfare laws governing our business in foreign jurisdictions include examples such as the Workplace Health and Safety Directive and the Directive concerning ionizing radiation in the EU, and various provisions of the Canada Labour Code and related regulations in Canada. 

Transportation 

Various laws regulating the transportation of waste and other potentially hazardous materials also apply to the services we provide. In the U.S., the Department of Transportation ("DOT") has promulgated regulations which deal with two different aspects of transportation: hazardous materials transport and safety in transportation. First, the Pipeline Hazardous Materials Safety Administration ("PHMSA") requires specific packaging and labeling of regulated hazardous materials and wastes to ensure public safety. For regulated medical waste PHMSA incorporates the OSHA bloodborne pathogens standard and requires containers that meet certain specifications including but not limited to: proper markings (biohazard symbol, UN-ID, etc.), sufficient strength and rigidity, leak-proof and puncture resistance. Other hazardous materials such as expired pharmaceuticals, waste chemicals, damaged retail products which are hazardous wastes are also subject to DOT PHMSA regulations. We identify pharmaceutical products by their National Drug Code number and classify them according to the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") classification criteria and identify the proper handling, transportation and disposal requirements. Second, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration ("FMCSA") regulates safety of drivers and vehicles which requires us to ensure driver and vehicle fitness through training, medical surveillance and inspection. These federal requirements plus additional state requirements are closely monitored internally and due to our fleet size we are regularly subject to road side inspections. These inspections have a cumulative effect on our compliance history and require us to remain in good standing so as not to jeopardize our permits. 

Examples of transportation laws we must comply with internationally include the Directive on the Inland Transportation of Dangerous Goods in the EU and the Transport of Dangerous Goods Act and related regulations in Canada. 

Document Management 

Numerous laws and regulations require proper protection of confidential customer information by business parties that have access to such information. In the U.S., the most commonly cited 

regulations include FACTA Final Disposal Rule, the FACTA Red Flag Rule, the HIPAA Privacy, Security, Enforcement, and Breach Notification Rules, and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. 

For the transportation of secure information for destruction, we are regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation as a commercial motor carrier. The processes for the destruction of secure information destruction processes are not regulated by any government agency. However, the National Association for Information Destruction ("NAID") maintains a certification to ensure that destruction processes support the needs of organizations to meet laws and regulations relating to the protection of confidential information. We currently hold the NAID AAA Certification. Further, Payment Card Industry ("PCI") Security Standards Council has developed Data Security Standards which are imposed upon merchants utilizing credit cards and require destruction of documents and media in accordance with their standards. 

Use of the Mail 

United States Postal Service ("USPS") has its own set of specific regulations defined in Publication 52 which governs the use of the postal system for mailing of hazardous, restricted and perishable materials. More specifically, mailback management offerings for sharps, medical waste, and pharmaceutical wastes, require us to obtain and maintain authorization permits from the USPS. We have obtained permits from the USPS to conduct our "mail-back" programs which provide a convenient service for customers who need such a service with approved containers for "sharps" (needles, knives, broken glass and the like) or other regulated wastes to be sent directly to a treatment facility. 

Controlled Substances 

In the U.S. our service offerings for the recall, return and destruction of controlled substance pharmaceuticals are subject to laws and regulations under the Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA"). These regulations apply to both the closed loop management of controlled substances from other DEA registrants as well as the return of unused controlled substances from consumers. These regulations require facilities to obtain a registration from the DEA and meet certain criteria in order to collect, process, and dispose of controlled substances. The DEA has very strict requirements for the management of employees, the type of security within facilities, recordkeeping, and the reporting of all controlled substances managed at the facility. Much like permitting, the registration must be updated regularly and subjects us to inspection and enforcement by DEA agents. 

U.S. and Foreign Local Regulation 

We conduct business in all 50 states and Puerto Rico. Because the federal EPA did not promulgate regulations for regulated medical waste at a national level, each state has its own regulations related to the handling, treatment and storage of regulated medical waste. Many states have followed requirements similar to the Medical Waste Tracking Act of 1988 or have placed medical waste regulations under solid waste regulations. Hazardous waste in the U.S. is regulated under the Resource Recovery and Conservation Act. In addition, certain states may have their own regulations for handling, treatment and storage of hazardous wastes. Regulated Garbage (sometimes referred to as APHIS waste) is another area of regulatory requirements we are subject to pursuant to regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Agriculture ("USDA") and Customers and Border Patrol. The USDA typically inspects our facilities receiving such APHIS waste on a quarterly basis. 

In each state where we operate a processing facility or a transfer station, we are required to comply with varying state and local laws and regulations which may also require a specific operating plan. In addition, many local governments have ordinances and regulations, such as zoning or wastewater regulations that affect our operations. Similarly, our international operations are subject to regulations enacted and enforced at the provincial, municipal, and local levels of government in addition to the national regulations with which we must comply. 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

With the acquisition of Shred-it, we hold patents in the U.S. for a two-staged shredder with patents pending in Canada and Europe. We also hold patents in the U.S., Canada, and Europe for Securshield, propriety locks for shredding containers. 

We own federal registrations for a number of trademarks/servicemarks including Stericycle &#174; , Steri-Safe &#174; , Stericycle ExpertRECALL &#174; , Sustainable Solutions &#174; , Bio Systems &#174; , Shred-it &#174; , Securit &#174; , Community Shred-it &#174; , Making Sure it&#8217;s Secure &#174; , and our company logo service mark consisting of a nine-circle design. We also hold international registrations for Stericycle, the nine-circle design used in our logo, and the Shred-it name and design. 

Potential Liability and Insurance 

The regulated waste industry involves potentially significant risks of statutory, contractual, tort and common law liability claims. Potential liability claims could involve, for example: 

&#8226; cleanup costs; 

&#8226; personal injury; 

&#8226; damage to the environment; 

&#8226; employee matters; 

&#8226; property damage; or 

&#8226; alleged negligence or professional errors or omissions in the planning or performance of work. 

We could also be subject to fines or penalties in connection with violations of regulatory requirements. 

We carry $75 million in general liability insurance (including umbrella coverage), and under separate policies, $25 million in aggregate of pollution legal liability insurance and contractor&#8217;s operations and professional services environmental insurance ($10 million per incident and $15 million excess per incident under each respective policy). We carry comprehensive policies that include: privacy liability, security liability, event management, cyber-liability and miscellaneous professional services errors and omissions coverages with the total of $15 million in coverage ($5 million primary with $10 million excess). We consider this insurance sufficient to meet regulatory and customer requirements and to protect our employees, assets and operations. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following table contains certain information regarding our seven current executive officers: 

Name 

Position 

Age 

Mark C. Miller 

Executive Chairman 

Charles A. Alutto 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Brent Arnold 

Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 

Daniel V. Ginnetti 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Michael J. Collins 

Executive Vice President and President, Recall and Returns Management Services 

John P. Schetz 

Executive Vice President and General Counsel 

Brenda Frank 

Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer 

Mark Miller &#32;has served as our Executive Chairman since January 2013 and director as of May 1992. He became our Chief Executive Officer in May 1992 and Chairman of the Board of Directors in August 2008. From May 1989 until joining us, Mr. Miller served as vice president for the Pacific, Asia and Africa in the international division of Abbott Laboratories, a diversified health care company, which he joined in 1976 and where he held a number of management and marketing positions. Mr. Miller serves as a director of Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., a developer of automated diagnostics systems, and formerly served as a director of Ventana Medical Systems, Inc., a developer and supplier of automated diagnostic systems. He received a B.S. degree in computer science from Purdue University, where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa. Mr. Miller was selected by Morningstar, Inc. as its "2009 CEO of the Year." 

Charlie Alutto &#32;has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2013 and as a Director since November 2012. He joined us in May 1997 following our acquisition of the company where he was then employed. He became an executive officer in February 2011 and served as President, Stericycle USA. He previously held various management positions with us, including vice president and managing director of SRCL Europe and corporate vice president of our large quantity generator business unit. Mr. Alutto received a B.S. degree in finance from Providence College and a M.B.A. degree in finance from St. John&#8217;s University. 

Brent Arnold &#32;was named as Chief Operating Officer effective January 1, 2015. He served as Executive Vice President and President, Stericycle USA/Canada since April 2014. He joined Stericycle in April 2005 and has worked in various leadership positions including Senior Vice President of Operations, Senior Vice President of Sales &#38; Marketing for the US and Canada and Corporate Vice President of our large and small quantity business units. He has more than 24 years of experience primarily focused in the healthcare industry. Prior to joining Stericycle, he held various leadership roles at Baxter International Inc. and Cardinal Health, Inc. Mr. Arnold received a B.S. degree in marketing from Indiana University. 

Daniel Ginnetti &#32;was named as Chief Financial Officer effective August 1, 2014. He joined Stericycle as Area Vice President of Finance in 2003. In 2004 he was promoted to Area Vice President for Stericycle&#8217;s Western, and later, Midwestern business units. Following that, he was promoted to Senior Vice President of Operations for the United States and Canada. He returned to financial management in 2013 becoming Vice President of Corporate Finance and then CFO in August 2014. Prior to joining Stericycle, Mr. Ginnetti held various finance and accounting positions with The Ralph M. Parsons Company, a worldwide engineering firm, and Ryan Herco Products 

Corp., a national industrial plastics distributor. Mr. Ginnetti has a B.S. degree in Business Economics from the University of California, Santa Barbara. 

Michael Collins &#32;joined Stericycle as President, Recall and Returns Management Services in June 2006. Prior to joining Stericycle, he was Medical Products Group of Abbott Laboratories. He joined Abbott in 1982 as a sales representative and later served in various management positions, including Divisional Vice President, U.S. Sales; Divisional Vice President, U.S. Marketing, Divisional Vice President and General Manager, MediSense and Corporate Vice President Abbott Diagnostics Divisions. Mr. Collins was a commissioned officer for the U.S. Marine Corps. He holds a B.S degree from the University of New Haven and a M.B.A. degree from National University, San Diego. 

John Schetz &#32;has served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel since April 2015. Mr. Schetz previously served as Vice President and Senior Counsel from January 2013. He joined us in June 2009 as Senior Counsel, Mergers and Acquisitions. Prior to joining Stericycle, Mr. Schetz was a partner at McDermott Will &#38; Emery LLP in Chicago. Mr. Schetz received a B.A. degree from the University of Michigan and a J.D. degree from the University of Michigan Law School. 

Brenda Frank &#32;has served as Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer since January 2016. Brenda joined Stericycle with our acquisition of Shred-it in October 2015 where she spent six years as General Counsel and Executive Vice President of Human Resources and Franchise Relations. Brenda has spent the last 20 years focusing on people, labor and employment, holding senior human resources and legal roles at global services companies such as ITOCHU INTERNATIONAL and Pitney Bowes. Brenda started her career as a labor and employment attorney and litigator at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &#38; Rosati and Proskauer Rose. Brenda received her B.S. in Accounting from S.U.N.Y Albany and her J.D. from New York University Law School. 

Website Access 

We maintain an Internet website, www.stericycle.com , providing a variety of information about us and the services we provide. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available, as soon as practicable after filing, at the Investors page on our website, or by a direct link to our filings on the SEC&#8217;s free website, www.sec.gov . 

