 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

Overview &#8211; General

Surmodics, Inc. and subsidiaries (referred to as &#8220;Surmodics,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; and other like terms) is a leading provider of medical device and in vitro diagnostic technologies to the healthcare industry. In fiscal 2016, our business performance continued to be driven by growth in our core Medical Device and In Vitro Diagnostics (&#8220;IVD&#8221;) businesses as well as the acquisitions of Creagh Medical Ltd. (&#8220;Creagh Medical&#8221;) and NorMedix, Inc. (&#8220;NorMedix&#8221;) in our Medical Device segment. Our mission is to improve the treatment and detection of disease by using our technology to provide solutions to difficult medical device and diagnostic challenges . Our business segments partner with many of the world&#8217;s leading and emerging medical device, diagnostic and life science companies to develop and commercialize innovative products designed to improve patient diagnosis and treatment. 

The Company was organized as a Minnesota corporation in June 1979. We make available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;) on our website, www.surmodics.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. We are not including the information on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, our Form 10-K.

The information below provides an overview of the principal products and services and principal markets for each of our two business units. For more information regarding domestic and foreign revenue and revenue by our business units, also known as our operating segments, for each of our last three fiscal years, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in &#8220;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The discussion of other aspects of our business including research and development (&#8220;R&#38;D,&#8221;), intellectual property, marketing and sales, future acquisition strategy, significant customers, competition, manufacturing, government regulation and our employees applies to our business in general and we describe material segment information within these sections where relevant.

Medical Device Segment 

Advances in medical device technology have helped drive improved device efficacy and patient outcomes. The convergence of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries, often made possible by surface modification and device drug delivery technologies, presents an opportunity for major advancements in the healthcare industry. We believe the benefits of combining drugs and biologics with implantable and minimally invasive devices are becoming increasingly valuable in applications in cardiology, peripheral artery disease, ophthalmology, orthopedics and other large markets. 

Stents, particularly drug-eluting stents, have significantly reduced the need for repeat intravascular procedures, and they have diminished the need for more invasive cardiac bypass surgery. Drug-coated balloons have further transformed intravascular therapies by enhancing patient outcomes while not leaving stents in the vascular system. Transcatheter heart valve repair or replacement via a minimally invasive catheter-based system has enabled the treatment of patients suffering from heart valve disease who are too ill to undergo open-heart surgery. Positive clinical outcomes and acceptance of these and other similar innovations by patients, physicians and insurance companies has helped certain segments of the United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;) medical device industry grow at a faster pace than the economy as a whole. The attractiveness of the industry has drawn intense competition among the companies participating in this area. In an effort to improve their existing products or develop entirely new devices, a growing number of medical device manufacturers are exploring or using surface modification and device drug delivery technologies as product differentiators or device enablers. In addition, the continuing trend toward minimally invasive surgical procedures, which often employ catheter-based delivery technologies, has increased the demand for hydrophilic (i.e., lubricious or slippery) coatings and other coating technologies.

Our Medical Device segment provides surface modification coating technologies that impart lubricity, prohealing or biocompatibility characteristics, or drug delivery capabilities, as well as vascular device, catheter and balloon design, development and manufacturing capabilities. Historically, we have provided surface modification technologies to enhance our customers&#8217; medical devices and delivery systems. Since fiscal 2013, with our investment in our drug-coated balloon (&#8220;DCB&#8221;) platform, we have been focused on a strategy to develop and manufacture proprietary medical device products that combine our surface modification coatings with medical devices or delivery systems (&#8220;whole-product solutions&#8221;). Our aim is to provide customers earlier access to highly differentiated whole-product solutions that address unmet clinical needs, and partner with them on successful commercialization. During fiscal 2016, we made significant progress on our whole-product solutions strategy with the acquisitions of Creagh Medical and NorMedix, and initiated a first in-human early feasibility study of the Surmodics SurVeil DCB. This strategy does not change our focus 

on our core surface m odification technologies but we believe it will greatly increase our relevance in the industry, and is key to our future growth and profitability, given the prospect of capturing more revenue with whole-product solutions. 

Overview of Interventional Peripheral Market and Surmodics&#8217; Technologies

Peripheral artery disease (&#8220;PAD&#8221;) is a condition that causes a narrowing of the blood vessels supplying the extremities, most often due to plaque buildup in the arterial walls. Left untreated, PAD may lead to symptoms such as large non-healing ulcers, infections, or gangrene, and may require limb amputation or, in extreme cases, result in death. 

The American Heart Association has reported that an estimated 8.5 million Americans and 202 million people worldwide are living with PAD. The number of people affected by PAD is expected to increase as a result of an aging population, coupled with increasing prevalence of conditions linked to PAD, such as diabetes and obesity. Awareness of PAD in the general population as well as among physicians, in conjunction with emphasis on PAD education, has resulted in more diagnoses and earlier detection. PAD is often treated through recommended lifestyle changes, such as diet and exercise, and by prescribing prescription drugs. However, these responses, along with being difficult and costly to maintain, do not treat the underlying obstructions. As a result, procedural intervention is often necessary to prevent or correct symptoms as they become more severe. The interventional PAD market utilizes a variety of access and therapy catheters to treat PAD. These technologies are delivered through a number of access points into the vascular system including femoral (leg), radial (wrist or arm) and pedal (foot).

A key aspect of our strategy is the acquisition of state-of-the-art medical device design, development and manufacturing capabilities to complement our leadership in surface modification coating technologies for the purpose of developing whole-product solutions for the PAD and other vascular disease markets. The Creagh Medical acquisition brings a state-of-the-art R&#38;D and manufacturing facility offering robust extrusion, balloon-forming, top-assembly, packaging and regulatory capabilities focused on balloon catheters. The NorMedix acquisition provides ultra-thin-walled, minimally invasive catheter technologies. With these acquisitions, we now engage in contract R&#38;D, as well as manufacturing access and therapy catheters, integrating our catheter, balloon, and surface modification technologies to design and develop proprietary products. We plan to enter into agreements with third party medical device companies who will sell our products to end users. We expect our first product to receive regulatory approval in late fiscal 2017.

Surmodics is focused on the development of drug coated balloons to treat PAD. In the first quarter of fiscal 2016, we received Investigational Device Exemption (&#8220;IDE&#8221;) approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;) to move forward with our first in-human early feasibility study using the SurVeil DCB. That study was initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2016. The SurVeil DCB is not approved for commercial sale and treats PAD in the leg above the knee. The development of the SurVeil DCB is a major step forward in our strategy to offer whole-product solutions for the medical device industry. This approval allowed us to take the steps required to start an early feasibility clinical trial. We continue to enroll patients in the study and expect results early in calendar 2017. 

Overview of Surmodics&#8217; Surface Modification and Device Drug Delivery Technologies

We believe Surmodics is positioned to take advantage of the continuing trend of incorporating surface modification and device drug delivery technologies into the design of combination products, potentially leading to more efficient and effective products as well as new product applications. We have a growing portfolio of proprietary technologies, market expertise and insight, and unique collaborative research, development and manufacturing capabilities &#8212;key ingredients to bring innovation together for the benefit of patients, us, and the healthcare industry.

Coatings for Surface Modification and Device Drug Delivery

Key differentiating characteristics of our coating platforms are their flexibility, durability and ease of use. In terms of flexibility, coatings can be applied to many different kinds of surfaces and can immobilize a variety of chemical, pharmaceutical and biological agents. Additionally, the surface modification process can be tailored to provide customers with the ability to improve the performance of their devices by choosing the specific coating properties desired for particular applications. Our surface modification technologies also can be combined to deliver multiple surface-enhancing characteristics on the same device.

Our proprietary PhotoLink&#174; coating technology is a versatile, easily applied, coating technology that modifies medical device surfaces by creating covalent bonds between device surfaces and a variety of chemical agents. PhotoLink coatings can impart many performance enhancing characteristics, such as advanced lubricity (slippery) and hemocompatibility (preventing blood clot formation), 

when bound onto sur faces of medical devices or other biological materials without materially changing the dimensions or other physical properties of devices. 

PhotoLink reagents can be applied to a variety of substrates. The coating formulations are easily applied to the material surface by a variety of methods including, but not limited to, dipping, spraying, roll-coating or ink-jetting. We continue to expand our portfolio of proprietary reagents for use by our customers. These reagents enable our customers to develop novel surface features for their devices, satisfying the expanding requirements of the healthcare industry. We are also continually working to expand the list of materials that are compatible with our surface modification and device drug delivery reagents. Additionally, we develop coating processes and coating equipment to meet the device quality, manufacturing throughput and cost requirements of our customers. 

In terms of ease of use, the PhotoLink coating process is relatively simple and is easily integrated into the customer&#8217;s manufacturing process. In addition, the process does not subject the coated products to harsh chemical or temperature conditions, produces no hazardous byproducts, and does not require lengthy processing or curing time. Further, our PhotoLink coatings are generally compatible with accepted sterilization processes, so the surface attributes are not lost when the medical device is sterilized.

A long-standing challenge for the medical device industry has been the availability of device coatings that offer excellent lubricity without compromising durability. The properties that make coatings more lubricious&#8212;absorbing and exuding water&#8212;also can make them more susceptible to mechanical degradation. In August 2015, the FDA issued a position paper that identifies a list of characteristics that should be considered when evaluating the durability of coatings on vascular and neurological devices. Prior to the FDA communication, we launched our Serene&#174; hydrophilic coating platform which optimizes lubricity and durability while significantly reducing particulates generation. This next-generation coating has demonstrated excellent lubricity on a wide range of substrates, and has been used on FDA-cleared coronary, peripheral and structural heart devices. Serene coatings are applied using our PhotoLink process.

Our device drug delivery coating technologies allow therapeutic drugs to be incorporated within our proprietary polymer matrices to provide controlled, site-specific release of the drug into the surrounding environment. The release of the drug can be tuned to elute quickly (within minutes to a few days) or slowly (from several months to over a year), illustrating the wide range of release profiles that can be achieved with our coating systems. On a wide range of devices, drug-eluting coatings can help improve device performance, increase patient safety and enable innovative new treatments. Examples of short term use drug delivery devices would include drug coated balloons and examples of longer term drug delivery devices would include drug eluting stents. We work with companies in the medical device and biotechnology industries to develop specialized coatings that allow for the controlled release of drugs from device surfaces. We see at least three primary areas with strong future potential: (1) improving the function of a device which itself is necessary to treat the medical condition; (2) enabling site-specific drug delivery while limiting systemic exposure; and (3) enhancing the biocompatibility of a medical device to ensure that it continues to function over a long period of time.

Clinical Benefits

&#160;

&#8226; 

Device Drug Delivery. We provide drug delivery polymer technology to enable controlled, site-specific or systemic delivery of therapeutic agents. As an example, a DCB is used during angioplasty to deliver drug(s) to the vessel wall to inhibit unwanted tissue growth which could lead to re-closure of the artery, restenosis. 

&#160;

&#8226; 

Lubricity. Low friction or lubricious coatings reduce the force and time required for insertion, navigation and removal of devices in a variety of minimally invasive applications. Based on internal and customer evaluations, when compared with uncoated surfaces, our PhotoLink coatings have reduced the friction on surfaces by more than 90%, depending on the surface being coated. Lubricity also reduces tissue irritation and damage caused by products such as catheters, guidewires and endoscopy devices. Further, lubricious coatings can improve deliverability of a medical device, which can enhance the physician&#8217;s ability to place a medical device in the intended site within the patient&#8217;s body. 

&#160;

&#8226; 

Prohealing. Biologically based extracellular matrix (&#8220;ECM&#8221;) protein coatings for use in various applications are designed to improve and accelerate the healing of the tissue at or near the implant site through nature&#8217;s own healing mechanisms following procedures involving implantable medical devices. Certain ECM proteins, such as collagen and laminin, specifically stimulate the migration and proliferation of endothelial cells (cells that line blood vessels) to promote healing. By covalently attaching the appropriate ECM proteins to device surfaces utilizing the PhotoLink coating process, the biomimetic surface can signal endothelial cells in the blood and vascular wall to form a stable endothelial lining over the implant. We believe these prohealing coatings could help prevent late stent thrombosis (the formation of a clot on the stent 30 days to one year after implant). 

&#160;

&#8226; 

Hemo/biocompatibility. Hemocompatible/biocompatible coatings help reduce adverse reactions that may be created when a device is inserted into the body and comes in contact with blood. Heparin has been used for decades as an injectable drug to reduce blood clotting in patients. PhotoLink reagents can be used to immobilize heparin on the surface of medical devices, 

&#160;

thereby inhibiting blood clotting on the device surface, minimizing patient risk and enhancing the performance of the device. We have also developed synthetic, non-biological coatings that provide medical device surfaces with improved blood compatibility without the use of heparin. These coatings prevent undesirable cells and proteins that lead to clot formation from adhering to the device surface. These coatings may also reduce fibrous enca psulation. 

Licensing Arrangements

We commercialize our surface modification and device drug delivery technologies primarily through licensing arrangements with medical device manufacturers. We believe this approach allows us to focus our resources on further developing new technologies and expanding our licensing activities. Many of our technologies have been designed to allow manufacturers to implement them easily into their own manufacturing processes so customers can control production and quality internally without the need to send their products to a contract manufacturer. 

We generate the largest portion of our revenue through licensing arrangements. Royalties and license fees represented 46.5%, 51.3% and 52.7% of our total revenue in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Greater than 96% of our royalties and license fees revenue in this three-year period were generated from hydrophilic coating licenses. Revenue from these licensing arrangements typically includes license fees and milestone payments, minimum royalties, and royalties based on a percentage of licensees&#8217; product sales. We also generate revenue from sales of reagent chemicals to licensees for use in their coating processes.

The licensing process begins with the customer specifying a desired product feature to be created such as lubricity or drug delivery. Because each device and coating application is unique, we routinely conduct a feasibility study to qualify each new potential product application, often generating commercial development revenue. Feasibility studies can range in duration from several months to a year. After we complete a feasibility study, our customers cannot market their product until they receive regulatory approval. As further described under the caption &#8220;Government Regulation,&#8221; the regulatory approval process varies in each country and ranges from several months to four or more years. At any time prior to a customer&#8217;s commercial launch, a license agreement may be executed granting the licensee rights to use our technology. We often support our customers by providing coating assistance for parts required in animal tests and human clinical trials. Typically, we complete a technology transfer to most customers which enables those customers to apply the coating at their own facilities.

The term of a license agreement is generally for a specified number of years or the life of our patents, whichever is longer, although a license generally may be terminated by the licensee for any reason upon 90 days&#8217; advance written notice. In cases where the royalty obligation extends beyond the life of the applicable patent, it is because the license also includes rights to our know-how or other proprietary rights. Under these circumstances, the royalty obligation typically continues at a reduced royalty rate for a specified number of years generally following the date on which the customer&#8217;s product was first sold. We actively seek to upgrade our customers to advanced generations of our hydrophilic coating technology although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so.

Our license agreements may include certain license fees and/or milestone payments. The license can be either exclusive or nonexclusive, but substantially all of our licensed applications are nonexclusive, allowing us to license technology to multiple customers. Moreover, even exclusive licenses generally are limited to a specific &#8220;field of use,&#8221; allowing us the opportunity to further license technology to other customers. The royalty rate on a substantial number of the agreements has traditionally been in the 2% to 3% range, but there are certain contracts with lower or higher rates. In certain agreements, our royalty is based on an agreed-upon amount per unit. The amount of the license fees, milestone payments, and the royalty rate are based on various factors, including the stage of development of the product or technology being licensed, whether the arrangement is exclusive or nonexclusive, the perceived value of our technology to the customer&#8217;s product, and size of the potential market. Most of our agreements also incorporate a minimum royalty to be paid by the licensee. Royalty payments generally commence one quarter after the customer&#8217;s actual product sales occur because of the delay in reporting sales by our licensees.

We have over 150 licensed product classes (customer products utilizing Surmodics technology) already in the market generating royalties and greater than 100 customer product classes incorporating our technology in various stages of pre-commercialization. We signed 18, 22 and 16 new licenses in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Under our agreements with our customers, the responsibility for securing regulatory approval for and ultimately commercializing these products rests with our customers. Our reliance on our customers in this regard and the potential risks to our operations as a result are discussed in Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; of this Form 10-K. Moreover, we are often contractually obligated to keep the details concerning our customers&#8217; R&#38;D efforts (including the timing of expected regulatory filings, approvals and market introductions) confidential. As a result of the significant uncertainty inherent in product development and regulatory approval 

processes, the expected timing for regulatory approval and commercialization for the product classes pending regulatory approval is c an vary greatly. 

Under most of our licensing agreements, we are required to keep the identity of our customers confidential unless they approve of such disclosure. Some of our licensed customers who allow the use of their name are: Abbott Laboratories (&#8220;Abbott&#8221;), Boston Scientific Corporation (&#8220;Boston Scientific&#8221;), Cook Medical, Cordis Corporation (a subsidiary of Cardinal Health, Inc.) (&#8220;Cordis&#8221;), Covidien PLC (a subsidiary of Medtronic), Edwards Lifesciences Corporation, Evalve, Inc. (a subsidiary of Abbott), ev3 Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic), Medtronic, OrbusNeich Medical, Inc., Spectranetics Corporation and St. Jude Medical, Inc. 

In Vitro Diagnostics Segment 

Our In Vitro Diagnostics (&#8220;IVD&#8221;) business unit generates revenue from sales of stabilization products, substrates, antigens and surface coatings to diagnostics customers. We manufacture or sell components for in vitro diagnostic immunoassay and molecular tests and we manufacture and sell surface coatings to the diagnostic, biomedical research, and life science markets.

Immunoassay Diagnostics. An immunoassay is a biochemical test that measures the presence or concentration of a target molecule, or &#8220;analyte&#8221;, in a biological fluid or sample. Analyte levels are correlated to the disease state or medical condition of a patient to diagnose the presence, absence or severity of disease. Analytes are typically proteins or small molecules such as hormones. Immunoassays are developed and produced using multiple components. The selection and optimization of those components confer the quality and performance of the assay in terms of sensitivity and specificity. IVD companies select these critical biochemical and reagent components to meet the clinical specifications of the assay. We develop, manufacture and sell high-performing, consistent-quality and stable immunoassay component products to enable our customers&#8217; diagnostic tests to detect the absence or presence of disease accurately. 

Molecular Diagnostics - DNA and Protein Immobilization. Both DNA and protein microarrays are useful tools for the pharmaceutical, diagnostic and research industries. During a DNA gene analysis, typically thousands of different probes need to be placed in a pattern on a surface, called a DNA microarray. These microarrays are used by the pharmaceutical industry to screen for new drugs, by genome mappers to sequence human, animal or plant genomes, or by diagnostic companies to search a patient sample for disease causing bacteria or viruses. However, DNA does not readily adhere to most surfaces. We have developed various surface chemistries for both DNA and protein immobilization. Protein microarrays are used as diagnostic and research tools to determine the presence and/or quantity of proteins in a biological sample. The most common type of protein microarray is the antibody microarray, where antibodies are spotted onto a surface and used as capture molecules for protein detection. 

The sales cycle for our IVD products generally begins when an IVD company initiates the process to develop a new, or improve a current, diagnostic test. During product development, these companies will look to source the critical components of the test with reagents it produces internally or with reagents from a supplier, such as Surmodics.

As IVD tests are developed and various reagents are tested, companies will generally seek to optimize the sensitivity (reduction of false negatives), specificity (reduction of false positives), speed (time from sample to results), convenience (ideally as few steps as possible) and cost effectiveness of the test.

The time from when a company initiates the development of a test to achieving regulatory approval (e.g., PMA) or clearance of the test (e.g., 510k) can vary greatly, and depends on several factors. These factors include the disease state of the test, the relative complexity of the test, whether the test is being used as a companion diagnostic, among other factors. Upon regulatory approval or clearance, the test can be sold in the marketplace. It may take several years for the test to achieve peak market share. As such, revenue for Surmodics reagents will vary based on the commercial success of the newly launched IVD test.

Overview of In Vitro Diagnostics Products

Protein Stabilizers. We offer a full line of stabilization products for the in vitro diagnostics market. These products increase sensitivity and extend the shelf life of diagnostic tests, thereby producing more consistent assay results. Our stabilization products are ready-to-use, eliminating the preparation time and cost of producing stabilization and blocking reagents by manufacturing in-house. 

Substrates. We also provide colorimetric and chemiluminescent substrates to the in vitro diagnostics market under our BioFX trademark. A substrate is the component of a diagnostic test kit that detects and signals that a reaction has taken place so that a result can be recorded. Colorimetric substrates signal a positive diagnostic result through a color change. Chemiluminescent substrates signal a positive diagnostic result by emitting light. We believe that our substrates offer a high level of stability, sensitivity and consistency. 

Antigens. We are the exclusive distributor in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico (and non-exclusive distributor in Japan) of DIARECT AG&#8217;s line of antigens. Because of the lack of h igh-quality antigens from natural sources, DIARECT produces the majority of these antigens and other components using recombinant technology. 

Surface Coatings for Molecular Diagnostic Applications. We offer custom coatings for molecular diagnostic applications, including DNA, RNA and protein microarrays. Our TRIDIA&#8482; surface coatings bind molecules to a variety of surfaces and geometries and may be customized for selectivity using passivating polymers and reactive groups. This proprietary technology immobilizes DNA and protein to adhere to testing surfaces. We offer other surface coatings that improve flow characteristics through membranes and microfluidic channels on diagnostic devices including point-of-care components. 

Research and Development

Our R&#38;D personnel work to enhance and expand our technology and product offerings in the area of drug delivery, surface modification, whole-product solutions, and in vitro diagnostics through internal scientific investigation. These scientists and engineers also evaluate external technologies in support of our corporate development activities. All of these efforts are guided by the needs of the markets in which we do business. Additionally, the R&#38;D staff support the business development staff and business units in performing feasibility studies, providing technical assistance to potential customers, optimizing the relevant technologies for specific customer applications, supporting clinical trials, training customers, integrating our technologies and know-how into customer manufacturing operations and developing whole-product solutions that meet customers&#8217; needs by integrating our coating, medical device and medical device delivery technologies.

In fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, our R&#38;D expenses were $18.5 million, $16.2 million and $15.6 million, respectively. We intend to continue investing in R&#38;D to advance our surface modification coatings, device drug delivery, whole-product solutions and in vitro diagnostic technologies and to expand uses for our technology platforms. We anticipate an increase in R&#38;D expenses in fiscal 2017 primarily related to whole-product solutions product development, including our DCB activities. In addition, we continue to pursue access to products and technologies developed outside the Company, as appropriate, to complement our internal R&#38;D efforts.

Medical Device Segment

As treatment technologies become more sophisticated and increasingly leverage minimally invasive techniques, we believe the need for improved medical devices that benefit from surface modification and device drug delivery will continue to grow. We intend to continue our development efforts to expand our capabilities in surface modification, device drug delivery and whole-product solutions to better meet these needs across multiple medical markets and to capture more of the final product value. We are doing this by developing or acquiring technologies and funding development activities which may include pre-clinical and human clinical studies.

With the acquisitions of Creagh Medical and NorMedix, we have strengthened our capabilities and broadened our capacity for R&#38;D activities. Our state-of-the-art facility in Ballinasloe, Ireland is fully equipped for R&#38;D and manufacturing and is focused on value-driven design and manufacture of high-quality balloon catheters. The suite of capabilities available include balloon forming, extrusion, coating and final finished product. The facility was purposefully built and equipped for medical device R&#38;D and manufacturing with space for future growth. In the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we completed an expansion of R&#38;D and manufacturing clean rooms as well as an analytical lab to support our whole-product solutions strategy. With the acquisition of NorMedix, we obtained a differentiated catheter-technology platform and additional design and development expertise that will enhance the value we offer our medical device customers. We plan to continue to develop surface modification coating and DCB chemistry technologies in our facilities in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. Proprietary whole-product solutions will integrate our surface modification coatings, catheter and balloon technologies and will be developed with a combined team from our U.S. and Irish facilities. Other than DCB, we plan to develop 12-15 whole-product solutions products over the next 5 years. Additional planned activities include initiation of surface modification experiments that improve medical device performance.

In fiscal 2016, we launched a single-coat formulation of our Serene hydrophilic coating. Specifically formulated for individual medical device applications, Serene Single-Coat solutions allow customers to leverage their legacy coating process to apply this surface treatment.

In fiscal 2014, we froze the design of our SurVeil DCB. We received FDA approval to commence an early feasibility study of this product in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and are continuing enrollment in a first-in-human clinical study using the SurVeil DCB. Additional clinical trials and subsequent regulatory approvals will need to be obtained prior to commercialization of this product.

We work together with our customers to integrate the best possible surface modification and device drug delivery technologies with their products, not only to meet their performance requirements, but also to perform services quickly so that the product may reach the market ahead of the competition. To quickly solve problems that might arise during the development and optimization 

process, we have developed extensive cap abilities in analytical chemistry and surface characterization within our R&#38;D organization. Our state-of-the-art instrumentation and extensive experience allow us to test the purity of coating reagents, to monitor the elution rate of drug from coatings, to measure coating thickness and smoothness, and to map the distribution of chemicals throughout coatings. We believe our capabilities far exceed those of our direct competitors, and sometimes even exceed those of our large-company customers. 

In Vitro Diagnostics Segment

Our R&#38;D efforts to grow our IVD business unit include identifying and addressing unmet needs that exist in the global IVD market place. Our pipeline of IVD products includes components for immunoassay and molecular diagnostic applications, such as, new protein stabilizers, detection technologies, accessory reagents and surface coatings that have the potential to add greater sensitivity, specificity, speed, convenience and lower cost for IVD test manufacturers. In fiscal 2016 we launched StabilBlock&#174; Immunoassay Stabilizer, our most advanced stabilizer product. 

&#160;

Clinical Trials 

In fiscal 2016, we initiated a first in-human early feasibility study of the SurVeil DCB. In connection with our whole-product solutions strategy, we plan to continue to sponsor and support clinical investigations to evaluate patient safety and clinical efficacy in support of regulatory approval or clearance for new product initiatives. We will generate the clinical data necessary to receive regulatory approval or clearance for our existing and emerging products. Clinical trials provide information about the performance and safety of a device in a controlled setting. 

Patents and Proprietary Rights

Patents and other forms of proprietary rights are an essential part of Surmodics&#8217; business. The Company aggressively pursues patent protection covering the proprietary technologies that we consider strategically important to our business. In addition to seeking patent protection in the U.S., we also generally file patent applications in European countries and, on a selective basis, other foreign countries. We strategically manage our patent portfolio so as to ensure that we have valid and enforceable patent rights protecting our technological innovations.

We protect our extensive portfolio of technologies through filing and maintaining patent rights covering a variety of coatings, drug delivery methods, reagents, and formulations, as well as particular clinical device applications. During fiscal 2016, Surmodics filed 16 original U.S. patent applications, as well as 21 international patent applications. As of September 30, 2016, Surmodics owned or had exclusive rights to 54 pending U.S. patent applications and 106 foreign patent applications. Likewise, as of the same date, Surmodics owned or had exclusive rights to 148 issued U.S. patents, and 187 international patents.

We have licensed our PhotoLink hydrophilic technology on a non-exclusive basis to a number of our customers for use in a variety of medical device surface applications, including those described above. In particular, we have 24 issued U.S. patents, 14 pending U.S. patent applications, 29 issued international patents, and 36 pending international patent applications protecting various aspects of these technologies, including compositions, methods of manufacture and methods of coating devices. The expiration dates for these patents and anticipated expiration dates of the patent applications range from 2016 to 2033. Moreover, these patents and patent applications represent distinct families, with each family generally covering a successive generation of the technology, including improvements that enhance coating performance, manufacturability, or other important features desired by our customers. Among these, the third generation of our PhotoLink technology is protected by a family of patents that expired in November 2015 (in the U.S.) and October 2016 (in certain other countries). In addition, the fourth generation of our PhotoLink technology is protected by a family of patents that is expected to expire in early fiscal 2020. As noted above in &#8220;Licensing Arrangements,&#8221; the royalty obligation in our typical license agreement is generally for a specified number of years or the life of our patents, whichever is longer. In cases where the royalty obligation extends beyond the life of the applicable patent, it is because the license also includes rights to our know-how or other proprietary rights. Under these circumstances, the royalty obligation will continue at a reduced royalty rate for a specified number of years, as determined based on the specific terms and conditions of the applicable customer agreement, the date on which the customer&#8217;s product was first sold, and other factors. In recent years, we have successfully converted a number of our customer&#8217;s products utilizing this early generation technology to one of our advanced generation technologies. 

The royalty revenue associated with our third generation technology which has not yet converted, or is not in the process of converting, to one of our advanced generation technologies was approximately 17% of our fiscal 2016 revenue. 

Approximately 24% of our total revenue in fiscal 2016 was generated from the fourth generation of our PhotoLink technology, which are protecte d by a family of patents that will begin to expire in fiscal 2020. Of the license agreements using our early generation technologies, most will continue to generate royalty revenue at a reduced royalty rate beyond patent expiration. 

While we are actively seeking to convert our customers to one of our advanced generations of our hydrophilic coating technology, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so, or that those customers that have converted, will sell products utilizing our technology which will generate earned royalty revenue for us. 

We also rely upon trade secrets, trademarks and other unpatented proprietary technologies. We seek to maintain the confidentiality of such information by requiring employees, consultants and other parties to sign confidentiality agreements and by limiting access by parties outside the Company to such information. There can be no assurance, however, that these measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of this information, or that others will not be able to develop independently such information. Additionally, there can be no assurance that any agreements regarding confidentiality and non-disclosure will not be breached, or, in the event of any breach, that adequate remedies would be available to us.

Marketing and Sales

We market our technologies and products throughout the world using a team of dedicated business development professionals who focus on specific markets and target companies. These sales professionals working within our Medical Device business work in concert with business unit personnel to coordinate customer activities. The specialization of our sales professionals fosters an in-depth knowledge of the issues faced by our customers within these markets such as industry trends, technology changes, biomaterial changes and the regulatory environment. With respect to our diagnostics products, we enter into sales and marketing relationships with third parties to distribute those products around the world. We also offer those products for sale through our website. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in &#8220;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding domestic and foreign revenue.

To support our marketing and sales activities, we publish technical literature on our various surface modification, drug delivery, and in vitro diagnostics technologies and products. In addition, we exhibit at major trade shows and technical meetings, advertise in selected trade journals and through our website, and conduct direct mailings to appropriate target markets.

We also offer ongoing customer service and technical support to our customers. This service and support may begin with a feasibility study, and also may include additional services such as assistance in the transfer of the technology to the customer, further optimization, process control and troubleshooting, preparation of product for clinical studies, and assistance with regulatory submissions for product approval. Some of these services are billable to customers, mainly feasibility and optimization activities.

While our recent acquisitions of Creagh Medical and NorMedix have strengthened our development and manufacturing capability and capacity, it does not change our business model of working with medical device customers. Our offerings are expanding as we now have the capabilities to support our customers from design and development through manufacturing and commercialization. Our aim is to provide our customers earlier access to highly differentiated products that address important unmet clinical needs, and partner with them on successful commercialization of these products.

Acquisitions

To further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses, we intend to continue to explore acquisitions and strategic collaborations to diversify and grow our business. As a result, we expect to make future acquisitions where we believe that we can broaden or enhance our technology offerings and expand our sources of revenue and the number of markets in which we participate. Mergers and acquisitions of medical and diagnostic technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that any of our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.

Significant Customers

Revenue from Medtronic represented approximately 25% of our total revenue for the year ended September 30, 2016 and was generated from multiple products and fields of use. The percentage of revenue from Medtronic decreased in fiscal 2016 as our customer base was diversified with the acquisitions of Creagh Medical and NorMedix. No other customer provided more than 6% of our consolidated revenue in fiscal 2016. 

Competition 

Medical Device Segment

We believe that the intense competition within the medical device market creates opportunities for our technologies as medical device manufacturers seek to differentiate their products through new enhancements or to remain competitive with enhancements offered by other manufacturers. Following our recent acquisitions of Creagh Medical and NorMedix, we plan to market our whole-product solutions to medical device companies that will leverage their existing sales force. Our core balloon and catheter capabilities compete with larger original equipment manufacturer (OEM) suppliers, as well as some of our largest medical device partners that have in-house resources to produce balloons and catheters. We seek to provide differentiated whole-product solutions that integrate our surface modification, catheter, balloon and other proprietary technologies. 

Because a significant portion of our revenue depends on the receipt of royalties based on sales of medical devices incorporating our technologies, we are also affected by competition within the markets for such devices. As we typically seek to license our surface modification coating technologies on a non-exclusive basis, we benefit by offering our technologies to multiple competing manufacturers of a device. However, competition in the medical device market could also have an adverse effect on us. While we seek to license our products to established manufacturers, in certain cases, our surface modification licensees may compete directly with larger, dominant manufacturers with extensive product lines and greater sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. We also are unable to control other factors that may impact commercialization of our whole-product solutions and licensees with medical devices that utilize our surface modification coatings, such as regulatory approval, marketing and sales efforts of our customers and licensees or competitive pricing pressures within the particular market. There can be no assurance that products employing our technologies will be successfully commercialized by our licensees and whole-product solutions customers or that they will otherwise be able to compete effectively. Many of our existing and potential competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have.

The ability for surface modification and device drug delivery technologies to improve the performance of medical devices and drugs and to enable new product categories has resulted in increased competition in these markets. Some of our competitors offer device drug delivery technologies, while others specialize in lubricious or hemocompatible coating technology. Some of these companies target cardiovascular, peripheral or other medical device applications. In addition, because of the many product possibilities afforded by surface modification technologies, many of the large medical device manufacturers have developed, or are engaged in efforts to develop, internal competency in the area of surface modification and device drug delivery. 

We attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by providing what we believe is a high value-added approach to drug delivery and surface modification technology. We believe that the primary factors customers consider in choosing a particular technology include performance (e.g., flexibility, ability to fine tune drug elution profiles, biocompatibility, etc.), ease of manufacturing, time-to-market, intellectual property protection, ability to produce multiple products from a single process, compliance with manufacturing regulations, ability to manufacture clinical and commercial products, customer service and total cost of goods (including manufacturing process labor). We believe our technologies deliver exceptional performance in these areas, allowing us to compete favorably with respect to these factors. We believe that the cost and time required to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals significantly reduces the likelihood of a customer changing the manufacturing process it uses once a device or drug has been approved for sale.

In Vitro Diagnostics Segment

Competition in the diagnostics market is highly fragmented. In the product lines in which we compete (protein stabilization reagents, substrates, recombinant autoimmune antigens and surface chemistry technologies), we face an array of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers that offer a limited selection of products. Some of our competitors have substantially more capital resources, marketing experience, R&#38;D resources and production facilities than we do. We believe that our products compete on performance, stability (shelf life), sensitivity (lower levels detected, faster results), consistency and price. We believe that our continued competitive success will depend on our ability to gain market share, to develop or acquire new proprietary products, obtain patent or other protection for our products and successfully market our products directly or through partners.

Manufacturing

We manufacture our surface modification and drug delivery reagents, and our IVD products in our Eden Prairie, Minnesota facility. In certain limited circumstances, we also provide contract manufacturing services for our customers, including, for example, coating their medical devices that are intended for pre-clinical and clinical development (including human clinical trials), and products 

that are sold for commercial use by our customers. Our state-of-the -art facility in Ballinasloe, Ireland is fully equipped for value-driven design and manufacture of high-quality balloon catheters and offers a suite of capabilities, including balloon forming, extrusion, coating and top assembly. In the first quarter of fi scal 2017, we completed an expansion of R&#38;D and manufacturing clean rooms as well as analytical labs to support our whole-product solutions strategy. The facility was purposefully built and equipped for medical device R&#38;D and manufacturing with space for f uture growth. 

We attempt to maintain multiple sources of supply for the key raw materials used to manufacture our products. We do, however, purchase some raw materials from single sources, but we believe that additional sources of supply are readily available. Further, to the extent additional sources of supply are not readily available, we believe that we could manufacture such raw materials.

We follow quality management procedures in accordance with applicable regulations and guidance for the development and manufacture of materials and device, biotechnology or combination products that support clinical trials and commercialization. In an effort to better meet our customers&#8217; needs in this area, our Eden Prairie, Minnesota facility is certified to ISO 13485 and ISO 9001. Our facility in Ballinasloe, Ireland is certified to ISO 13485. Each of these facilities is registered with the U.S. FDA as a &#8220;Contract Manufacturer.&#8221; 

Government Regulation

The medical devices, IVD and biotechnology products incorporating our technologies are required to undergo long, expensive and uncertain regulatory review processes that are governed by the U.S. FDA and other international regulatory authorities. New medical devices utilizing our surface modification coating technologies can only be marketed in the U.S. after a 510(k) application has been cleared or a pre-market approval application (&#8220;PMA&#8221;) has been approved by the FDA. This process can take anywhere from several months (e.g., for medical device products seeking regulatory approval under the 510(k) approval process) to several years (e.g., for medical device products seeking regulatory approval under the PMA approval process). With respect to our customers&#8217; products that incorporate our technologies, the burden of securing regulatory approval typically rests with our customers as the medical device manufacturers. During fiscal 2016 and 2015, Surmodics had multiple customers obtain regulatory clearance on medical devices incorporating our Serene coating platform. With respect to our whole-product solutions, including the SurVeil DCB, the burden of securing regulatory approval will rest on us unless we partner with other organizations to pursue such approval. 

In support of our customers&#8217; regulatory filings, we maintain various confidential Device Master Files with the FDA and provide technical information to other regulatory agencies outside the U.S. regarding the nature, chemical structure and biocompatibility of our reagents. Our licensees generally do not have direct access to these files. However, they may, with our permission, reference these files in their various regulatory submissions to these agencies. This approach allows regulatory agencies to understand in confidence the details of our technologies without us having to share this highly confidential information with our customers.

U.S. legislation allows companies, prior to obtaining FDA clearance or approval to market a medical product in the U.S., to manufacture medical products in the U.S. and export them for sale in international markets. This generally allows us to realize earned royalties sooner. However, sales of medical products outside the U.S. are subject to international requirements that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approval for sale internationally may be longer or shorter than that required by the FDA.

Employees

As of November, 2016, we had 219 employees. Of these employees we employ 72 outside the U.S., primarily in R&#38;D and manufacturing operations functions. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements.

We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, management and marketing personnel. We are committed to developing and providing our employees opportunities to contribute to our growth and success.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

As of December 2, 2016, the names, ages and positions of the Company&#8217;s executive officers are as follows:

&#160;

Name

&#160;

Age

&#160;

Position

Gary R. Maharaj

&#160;

&#160;

President and Chief Executive Officer

Timothy J. Arens

&#160;

&#160;

Vice President of Corporate Development and Strategy

Thomas A. Greaney 

&#160;

&#160;

Executive Vice President of Medical Devices

Andrew D. C. LaFrence

&#160;

&#160;

Vice President of Finance and Information Systems and Chief Financial Officer

Charles W. Olson

&#160;

&#160;

Senior Vice President of Commercial and Business Development, Medical Devices

Bryan K. Phillips

&#160;

&#160;

Senior Vice President, Legal and Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary

Joseph J. Stich

&#160;

&#160;

Vice President and General Manager, In Vitro Diagnostics

Gregg S. Sutton

&#160;

&#160;

Vice President of Research and Development

&#160;

Gary R. Maharaj joined the Company in December 2010 as President and Chief Executive Officer and was also appointed to the Surmodics Board of Directors at such time. Prior to joining Surmodics, Mr. Maharaj served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Arizant Inc., a provider of patient temperature management systems in hospital operating rooms, from 2006 to 2010. Previously, Mr. Maharaj served in several senior level management positions for Augustine Medical, Inc. (predecessor to Arizant Inc.) from 1996 to 2006, including Vice President of Marketing, and Vice President of Research and Development. During his approximately 30 years in the medical device industry, Mr. Maharaj has also served in various management and research positions for the orthopedic implant and rehabilitation divisions of Smith &#38; Nephew, PLC. Mr. Maharaj holds an M.B.A. from the University of Minnesota&#8217;s Carlson School of Management, an M.S. in biomedical engineering from the University of Texas at Arlington and the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, and a B.Sc. in Physics from the University of the West Indies. 

Timothy J. Arens joined the Company in February 2007 as Director, Business Development and became Senior Director of Financial Planning and Analysis and General Manager, In Vitro Diagnostics in October 2010. He was promoted to Vice President of Finance and Interim Chief Financial Officer in August 2011 and in February 2013 became Vice President Corporate Development and Strategy. Prior to joining Surmodics, Mr. Arens was employed at St. Jude Medical, Inc., a medical technology company, from 2003 to 2007, in positions of increasing responsibility related to business development and strategic planning functions. Mr. Arens received a B.S. degree in Finance from the University of Wisconsin Eau Claire in 1989 and an M.B.A. degree from the University of Minnesota&#8217;s Carlson School of Management in 1996. 

Thomas A. Greaney joined the Company in November 2015 as Vice President of Operations and General Manager of Creagh Medical, after we acquired it. In August 2016 Mr. Greaney was promoted to Executive Vice President of Medical Devices. Prior to joining Surmodics he served as Chief Executive Officer for Creagh Medical, from September 2005 to November 2015. Prior to his tenure in Creagh Medical, Mr. Greaney served in a variety of roles with Boston Scientific for 10 years including the world-wide operations responsibility for the Taxus Stent commercialization. From 1989 to 1995 he worked for a number of Electronics companies in a variety of engineering and management roles. Mr. Greaney received a B.E in Industrial Engineering in 1988 and a post grad Diploma in Quality Assurance in 1989 both from the National University of Ireland Galway. 

Andrew D. C. LaFrence joined the Company in February 2013 as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer and was also named Vice President of Information Systems in August 2016. Prior to joining Surmodics, he served as Chief Financial Officer for CNS Therapeutics, which developed and marketed pharmaceuticals for site-specific drug delivery to the central nervous system, from January 2011 to January 2013. Prior to joining CNS, Mr. LaFrence served as interim Chief Financial Officer of International Green Power from July 2010 to January 2011. Mr. LaFrence has over 30 years of financial and management experience including 26 years at KPMG LLP where, from 1996 to 2010, he was an audit partner focusing on supporting venture-backed, high-growth medical technology, pharmaceutical, biotech and clean tech private and public companies. Mr. LaFrence is a certified public accountant and received a bachelor's degree in accounting and a minor in business administration from Illinois State University in 1984. 

Charles W. Olson joined the Company in July 2001 as Market Development Manager, was promoted in December 2002 to Director, Business Development, named General Manager of the Hydrophilic Technologies business unit in April 2004, and promoted to Vice President and General Manager, Hydrophilic Technologies in October 2004. In April 2005, the position of Vice President, Sales was added to his responsibilities. In November 2008, Mr. Olson was named Vice President of our Cardiovascular business unit, in October 2010, he was named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Medical Device, and in August 2016 he was named Senior 

Vice President of Commercial and Business Development, Medical Devices. Prior to joining Surmodics, Mr. Olson was employed as General Manager at Minnesota Extrusion from 1998 to 2001 and at Lake Region Manufacturing in project management and technical sales from 1993 to 1998. Mr. Olson received a B.S. degree in Marketing from Winona State University in 1987. 

Bryan K. Phillips joined the Company in July 2005 as Patent Counsel and Assistant General Counsel. In January 2006, Mr. Phillips was appointed Corporate Secretary, and he was promoted to Deputy General Counsel in October 2007. He was promoted to Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in September 2008 and was promoted to Senior Vice President in October 2010. In August 2011, he became Senior Vice President, Legal and Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining Surmodics, Mr. Phillips served as patent counsel at Guidant Corporation&#8217;s Cardiac Rhythm Management Group where he was responsible for developing and implementing intellectual property strategies and also for supporting the company&#8217;s business development function. He also practiced law at the Minneapolis-based law firm of Merchant &#38; Gould P.C. Mr. Phillips received a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Kansas in 1993 and a law degree from the University of Minnesota Law School in 1999. He is admitted to the Minnesota bar and is registered to practice before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. 

Joseph J. Stich joined the Company in March 2010 as Vice President of Marketing, Corporate Development and Strategy. In August 2011, he became Vice President, Business Operations and General Manager, In Vitro Diagnostics and in September 2013 his role was adjusted to Vice President and General Manager, In Vitro Diagnostics. Before joining Surmodics, Mr. Stich was Vice President of Corporate Development for Abraxis BioScience, LLC, a biotechnology company focused on oncology therapeutics, from 2009 to 2010. Prior to joining Abraxis, he was a Vice President for MGI Pharma, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, from 2005 to 2009. Mr. Stich&#8217;s prior experience also includes serving as President/COO of Pharmaceutical Corp. of America (a subsidiary of Publicis Healthcare Specialty Group), and positions of increasing responsibility in sales and marketing at Sanofi-Aventis Pharmaceuticals. He received a B.B.A. degree from the University of Wisconsin &#8212; Whitewater in 1988, and an M.B.A. degree from Rockhurst University in Kansas City, Missouri in 1996. 

Gregg S. Sutton joined the Company in January 2016 as Vice President of Research and Development. Prior to joining Surmodics, he served as President and CEO of NorMedix, Inc., which we acquired in fiscal 2016, since June 2009. Mr. Sutton is a veteran medical device designer and developer with over 25 years of engineering experience in the medical device industry. He co-founded and held executive positions at several highly successful, early-stage development device companies, including Atritech, Angioguard, Vascular Solutions, and Navarre Biomedical, leading teams in development and launch of high-profile, first-of-their-kind devices. With a degree in mechanical engineering and over 50 patents granted, he has substantial experience in all aspects of medical device development, including intellectual property, design, product development, and manufacturing. 

The executive officers of the Company are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. None of our executive officers are related to any other executive officer or any of our directors.

