 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Seritage Growth Properties (&#147;Seritage&#148;) (NYSE: SRG), a Maryland real estate investment trust formed on June 3, 2015, is a fully-integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (&#147;REIT&#148;) as defined under Section 856(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (the &#147;Code&#148;). Seritage&#146;s assets are held by and its operations are primarily conducted through, directly or indirectly, Seritage Growth Properties, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the &#147;Operating Partnership&#148;). Under the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, Seritage, as the sole general partner, has exclusive responsibility and discretion in the management and control of the Operating Partnership. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, the &#147;Company&#148;, &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; and &#147;our&#148; as used herein refer to Seritage, the Operating Partnership and its owned and controlled subsidiaries. 

Seritage is principally engaged in the acquisition, ownership, development, redevelopment, management and leasing of diversified retail real estate throughout the United States. As of December 31, 2015, our portfolio included approximately 42.4 million square feet of gross leasable area (&#147;GLA&#148;), consisting of 235 wholly owned properties totaling over 37.0 million square feet of GLA across 49 states and Puerto Rico, and interests in 31 joint venture properties totaling over 5.4 million square feet of GLA across 17 states. 

On June 11, 2015 Sears Holdings Corporation (&#147;Sears Holdings&#148;) effected a rights offering (the &#147;Rights Offering&#148;) to Sears Holdings stockholders to purchase common shares of Seritage in order to fund, in part, the $2.7 billion acquisition of 234 of Sears Holdings&#146; owned properties and one of its ground leased properties (the &#147;Wholly Owned Properties&#148;), and its 50% interests in three joint ventures (the &#147;JV Interests&#148;) that collectively own 28 properties, ground lease one property and lease two properties (collectively, the &#147;JV Properties&#148;) (collectively, the &#147;Transaction&#148;). The Rights Offering ended on July 2, 2015, and the Company&#146;s Class A common shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange on July 6, 2015. 

On July 7, 2015, the Company completed the Transaction with Sears Holdings and commenced operations. The Company&#146;s only operations prior to the completion of the Rights Offering and Transaction were those incidental to the completion of such activities. 

As of December 31, 2015, we leased a substantial majority of the space in our portfolio at all but 11 of the Wholly Owned Properties (such 11 properties, the &#147;Third-Party Properties&#148;) to Sears Holdings under a master lease agreement (the &#147;Master Lease&#148;), with the remainder of such space leased to third-party tenants. The Third-Party Properties, which do not contain a Sears Holdings store or have any space leased to Sears Holdings, are leased solely to third-party tenants. A substantial majority of the space at the JV Properties is also leased to Sears Holdings by, as applicable, GS Portfolio Holdings LLC (the &#147;GGP JV&#148;), a joint venture between a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership and a subsidiary of General Growth Properties, Inc. (together with its other subsidiaries, &#147;GGP&#148;), SPS Portfolio Holdings LLC (the &#147;Simon JV&#148;), a joint venture between a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership and a subsidiary of Simon Property Group, Inc. (together with its other subsidiaries, &#147;Simon&#148;), or MS Portfolio LLC (the &#147;Macerich JV&#148; and, together with the GGP JV and the Simon JV, each, a &#147;JV&#148; and collectively, the &#147;JVs&#148;), a joint venture between a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership and a subsidiary of The Macerich Company (together with its subsidiaries, &#147;Macerich&#148;), in each case under a separate master lease with each JV (the &#147;JV Master Leases&#148;). 

The Master Lease and the JV Master Leases provide the Company and the JVs with the right to recapture certain space from Sears Holdings at each property for retenanting or redevelopment purposes. 

Business Strategies 

Our primary objective is to create value for our shareholders through the re-leasing and redevelopment of the majority of our Wholly Owned Properties and JV Properties. In doing so, we expect to meaningfully grow net operating income (&#147;NOI&#148;) by re-leasing space to third-party retailers at materially higher rents while also substantially diversifying our tenant base. In order to achieve our objective, we intend to execute the following strategies: 

&#160;

&#149; &#160; Convert single-tenant buildings into multi-tenant properties at meaningfully higher rents. We intend to increase NOI and diversify our portfolio by actively recapturing space at our properties and re-leasing such space to third-party retailers for higher rents than are payable under the Master Lease by Sears Holdings. We seek to optimize the mix of tenants at, and maximize the value of, our properties by focusing on growing national retailers and taking into account customer demographics and the competitive environment of each property&#146;s market 

&#160;

- 1 - 

area. We believe that the superior real estate locations, diversity of property types and national footprint that characterize our portfolio, combined with the unique recapture features of the Master Lease, make us well-positioned to meet the store growth needs of retailers across a variety of sectors and concepts. As we lease space to such retailers, we aim to create multi-tenant shopping centers that command superior rents and valuations due to their prime locations, synergies with adjoining retailers and proximity to productive malls and shopping centers. 

&#160;

&#149; &#160; Maximize value of vast land holdings through retail and mixed-use densification. &#160; Our portfolio includes over 3,000 acres of land, or approximately 13 acres per site for our Wholly Owned Properties, and our most significant geographic concentrations are in higher growth markets in California, Florida, Texas and the Northeast. We believe these land holdings will provide meaningful opportunities for additional retail and mixed-use development. In addition to the right to recapture up to approximately 50% of the space occupied by Sears Holdings at substantially all of our Wholly Owned Properties, the Master Lease provides us with the right to recapture (i) 100% of the stores located at 21 identified properties; (ii) all of any automotive care centers which are free-standing or attached as &#147;appendages&#148; to the stores; and (iii) outparcels or outlots, as well as certain portions of parking areas and common areas. 

The 21 identified properties for which we have 100% recapture rights include over 3.9 million square feet of entitled commercial space on over 350 acres of land and our portfolio of automotive care centers encompasses approximately 3.5 million square feet of scarce real estate typically located on the most visible and highly-trafficked site at a property. Given our fee ownership of these properties and control over parking lots and outparcels, we believe that many of these sites, as well as others throughout the portfolio, will provide attractive and value-enhancing development, redevelopment and densification opportunities. 

&#160;

&#149; &#160; Leverage existing and future joint venture relationships with leading real estate and financial partners. We currently own 50% interests in 31 JV Properties with leading regional mall REITs each of which, we believe, is focused on driving value creation at the JV Properties through recapturing and re-leasing space pursuant to the JV Master Leases. We participate in 50% of all net value created at the JV Properties and expect to benefit from the leasing and redevelopment platforms of our JV partners, as well as stores that are, generally, located at high-productivity malls within their respective portfolios. 

We may participate in future joint ventures to leverage our human and capital resources and pursue additional value-creating projects. We will generally seek partners that provide incremental expertise or, as a result of circumstances, allow us to create more value together than we believe we could create on our own.

&#160;

&#149; &#160; Maintain a flexible capital structure to support value creation activities. The capital structure resulting from the Transaction provides us with sufficient financial flexibility and capacity to fund our current capital needs and redevelopment opportunities. We believe we have access to multiple forms of capital, including internally generated cash from operations, that can provide us with additional funding to invest in value-creating projects. Significant Tenants 

Substantially all of the Company&#146;s real estate properties are leased to Sears Holdings, and the majority of our rental revenues are derived from the Master Lease. 

The Master Lease provides Seritage the right to recapture up to approximately 50% of the space occupied by Sears Holdings at each of the Wholly Owned Properties included in the Master Lease (subject to certain exceptions). In addition, Seritage has the right to recapture any automotive care centers which are freestanding or attached as &#147;appendages&#148; to the stores, and all outparcels or outlots, as well as certain portions of parking areas and common areas. We also have the right to recapture 100% of the space occupied by Sears Holdings at each of 21 identified Wholly Owned Properties by making a specified lease termination payment to Sears Holdings. While we will be permitted to exercise our recapture rights all at once or in stages as to any particular property, we will not be permitted to recapture all or substantially all of the space subject to the recapture right at more than 50 Wholly Owned Properties during any lease year. 

The Master Lease also provides for certain rights to Sears Holdings to terminate the Master Lease with respect to Wholly Owned Properties that cease to be profitable for operation by Sears Holdings. In order to terminate the Master Lease with respect to a certain property, Sears Holdings must make a payment to us of an amount equal to one year of rent (together with taxes and other expenses) with respect to such property. Such termination right, however, will be limited so that it will not have the effect of reducing the fixed rent under the Master Lease by more than 20% per annum. Further, no such termination rights can be exercised prior to August 1, 2016. 

&#160;

- 2 - 

A substantial majority of the space at the JV Properties is leased to Sears Holdings under the JV Master Leases which include recapture rights and termination rights with similar terms as the Master Lease. 

Sears Holdings is a publicly traded company and is subject to the informational filing requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is required to file periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;); refer to www.sec.gov for Sears Holdings Corporation&#146;s publicly available financial information. We make no representation as to the accuracy or completeness of the information regarding Sears Holdings that is available through the SEC&#146;s website or otherwise made available by Sears Holdings or any third party, and none of such information is incorporated by reference herein. 

Competition 

We compete for investment opportunities and prospective tenants with other REITs, real estate partnerships or other real estate companies, private individuals, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, pension funds, insurance companies, lenders and other investors. In addition, revenues from our properties are dependent on the ability of our tenants and operators to compete with other retail operators. 

Some of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we have. Increased competition will make it more challenging to identify and successfully capitalize on investment opportunities that meet our objectives. Our ability to compete is also impacted by national and local economic trends, availability of investment alternatives, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, existing laws and regulations, new legislation and population trends. 

As a landlord, we compete in the real estate market with numerous developers and owners of properties, including the shopping centers in which our properties are located. Some of our competitors have greater economies of scale, relationships with national tenants at multiple properties which are owned or operated by such competitors, access to more resources and greater name recognition than we do. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below the current market rates or below the rentals we currently charge, or on terms and conditions which include locations at multiple properties, we may lose our existing and/or potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates or to offer substantial rent abatements, tenant improvement allowances, early termination rights or below-market renewal options in order to win new tenants and retain tenants when our leases expire. 

Environmental Matters 

Our properties are subject to environmental laws regulating, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges and the handling and disposal of wastes. Certain of the properties were built during the time that asbestos-containing building materials were routinely installed in residential and commercial structures. In addition, a substantial portion of the properties we acquired from Sears Holdings currently include, or previously included, automotive care center facilities and retail fueling facilities, and are or were subject to laws and regulations governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances contained in some of the products or materials used or sold in the automotive care center facilities (such as motor oil, fluid in hydraulic lifts, antifreeze and solvents and lubricants), the recycling/disposal of batteries and tires, air emissions, wastewater discharges and waste management. In addition to these products or materials, the equipment in use or previously used at such properties, such as service equipment, car lifts, oil/water separators, and storage tanks, has been subject to increasing environmental regulation relating to, among other things, the storage, handling, use, disposal, and transportation of hazardous materials. The Master Lease obligates Sears Holdings to comply with applicable environmental laws and to indemnify us if their noncompliance results in losses or claims against us, and to remove all automotive care center equipment and facilities upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Master Lease. We expect that any future leases will include similar provisions for other operators of their respective spaces with respect to environmental matters first arising during their occupancy. An operator&#146;s failure to comply could result in fines and penalties or the requirement to undertake corrective actions which may result in significant costs to the operator and thus adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. 

Pursuant to U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be required to investigate, remove and/or remediate a release of hazardous substances or other regulated materials at, or emanating from, such property. Further, under certain circumstances, such owners or operators of real property may be held liable for property damage, personal injury and/or natural resource damage resulting from or arising in 

&#160;

- 3 - 

connection with such releases. Certain of these laws have been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of responsibility. We also may be liable under certain of these laws for damage that occurred prior to our ownership of a property or at a site where we sent wastes for disposal. The failure to properly remediate a property may also adversely affect our ability to lease, sell or rent the property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. 

Under the Master Lease, Sears Holdings is required to indemnify us from certain environmental liabilities at the Wholly Owned Properties before or during the period in which each Wholly Owned Property is leased to Sears Holdings, including removal and remediation of all affected facilities and equipment constituting the automotive care center facilities (and each JV Master Lease includes a similar requirement of Sears Holdings). In addition, pursuant to the terms our debt financing agreements, an escrow account for environment remediation was funded at the closing of the Transaction in the amount of approximately $12.0 million. 

In connection with the ownership of our current or past properties and any properties that we may acquire in the future, we could be legally responsible for environmental liabilities or costs relating to a release of hazardous substances or other regulated materials at or emanating from such property. We are not aware of any environmental issues that are expected to have a material impact on the operations of our properties. 

Insurance 

We have comprehensive liability, property and rental loss insurance with respect to our portfolio of properties. We believe that such insurance provides adequate coverage. 

REIT Qualification 

We plan to elect to be treated as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our initial taxable year ended December 31, 2015 and expect to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT. So long as we qualify as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on net taxable income that we distribute annually to our shareholders. In order to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, including, but not limited to, the real estate qualification of sources of our income, the composition and values of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the diversity of ownership of our stock. In order to comply with REIT requirements, we may need to forego otherwise attractive opportunities and limit our expansion opportunities and the manner in which we conduct our operations. See &#147;Risk Factors&#151;Risks Related to Status as a REIT.&#148; 

Financial Information about Industry Segments 

We currently operate in a single reportable segment, which includes the acquisition, ownership, development, redevelopment, management and leasing of retail properties. We review operating and financial information for each property on an individual basis and therefore, each property represents an individual operating segment. We do not distinguish or group our consolidated operations based on geography, size, or type. We aggregate all of our properties into one reportable segment due to their similarities with regard to the nature and economics of the properties, tenants and operational process. 

Employees 

As of March 4, 2016, we had 21 full-time employees. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our employee relations to be satisfactory. 

Available Information 

Our principal offices are located at 489 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10017 and our telephone number is (212) 355-7800. Our website address is www.seritage.com. Our reports electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act can be accessed through this site, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such reports. These filings are also available on the SEC&#146;s website at www.sec.gov. Our website also contains copies of our corporate governance guidelines and code of business conduct and ethics as well as the charters of our audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees. The information on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

&#160;

- 4 - 

