 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Corporate Background 

The Company was originally incorporated on December 8, 2006, under the laws of the State of Nevada as Elan Development, Inc. On April 25, 2008, the name of the company was changed to Star Gold Corp. Star Gold Corp. is an exploration stage company engaged in the acquisition and exploration of precious metal deposit properties and advancing them toward production. The Company is engaged in the business of exploring, evaluating and acquiring mineral prospects with the potential for economic deposits of precious and base metals.

&#160;

Star Gold Corp. currently leases with an option to acquire unpatented mining claims located in the State of Nevada which in part make up what we refer to as the Longstreet Property. The Longstreet Property in its entirety comprises 125 mineral claims (75 original optioned claims, of which 70 are unpatented staked claims and five claims leased from local ranchers, as well as 50 recently staked claims by Star Gold, covering a total area of approximately 2,500 acres (1,012 ha). The Longstreet property is at an intermediate stage of exploration.

The Company has no patents, licenses, franchises or concessions which are considered by the Company to be of importance. The business is not of a seasonal nature. Since the potential products are traded in the open market, the Company has no control over the competitive conditions in the industry. 

Overview of Mineral Exploration and Current Operations 

Star Gold Corp. is an exploration stage mineral company with no producing mines. Mineral exploration is essentially a research activity that does not produce a product. As such the Company acquires properties which it believes have potential to host economic concentrations of minerals, particularly gold and silver. These acquisitions have and may take the form of unpatented mining claims on federal land, or leasing claims, or private property owned by others. An unpatented mining claim is an interest that can be acquired to the mineral rights on open lands of the federal owned public domain. Claims are staked in accordance with the Mining Law of 1872, recorded with the federal government pursuant to laws and regulations established by the Bureau of Land Management. The Company intends to remain in the business of exploring for mining properties that have the potential to produce gold, silver, base metals and other commodities.

The Company will perform basic geological work to identify specific drill targets on the properties, and then collect subsurface samples by drilling to confirm the presence of mineralization (the presence of economic minerals in a specific area or geological formation). The Company may enter into joint venture agreements with other companies to fund further exploration and/or development work. It is the Company&#146;s plan to focus on assembling a high quality group of mid-stage mineral (primarily gold and silver) exploration prospects, using the experience and contacts of the management group. By such prospects, the Company means properties that have been previously identified by third parties, (including prior owners and/or exploration companies), as mineral prospects with potential for economic mineralization. Often these properties have been sampled, mapped and sometimes drilled, usually with indefinite results. Accordingly, such acquired projects will have either prior exploration history or will have strong similarity to a recognized geologic ore deposit model. Geographic emphasis will be place on the western United States.

The geologic potential and ore deposit models have been defined and specific drill targets identified the Company&#146;s sole remaining property. The Company&#146;s property evaluation process involves using basic geologic fieldwork to perform an initial evaluation of a property. If the evaluation is positive, the Company seeks to acquire, either by staking unpatented mining claims on open public domain, or by leasing the property from the owner of private property or the owner of unpatented claims. Once acquired, the Company then typically makes a more detailed evaluation of the property. This detailed evaluation involves expenditures for exploration work which may include rock and soil sampling, geologic mapping, geophysics, trenching, drilling or other means to determine if economic mineralization is present on a property.

Page 4 of 58 

Portions of the Company&#146;s mining properties are owned by third parties and leased to Star Gold as outlined in the following table:

&#160;

Property Name 

Third Party 

Number of Claims 

&#160;

Acres 

&#160;

Agreements/Royalties 

&#160;

Longstreet

Minquest

&#160;

2,500

&#160;

3% Net Smelter Royalty (&#147;NSR&#148;)

Annual lease payments totaling $247,000, annual exploration expenditures totaling $1.75m, and 185,000 shares due through 2020. Annual advance royalty payment of $12,000. 

Compliance with Government Regulations 

Continuing to acquire and explore mineral properties in the State of Nevada will be require the Company to comply with all regulations, rules and directives of governmental authorities and agencies applicable to the exploration of minerals in the State of Nevada and the United States Federal agencies.

United States 

Mining in the State of Nevada is subject to federal, state and local law. Three types of laws are of particular importance to the Company&#146;s U.S. mineral properties: those affecting land ownership and mining rights; those regulating mining operations; and those dealing with the environment.

Land Ownership and Mining Rights. 

On Federal Lands, mining rights are governed by the General Mining Law of 1872 (General Mining Law) as amended, 30 U.S.C. &#167;&#167; 21-161 (various sections), which allows the location of mining claims on certain Federal Lands upon the discovery of a valuable mineral deposit and proper compliance with claim location requirements. A valid mining claim provides the holder with the right to conduct mining operations for the removal of locatable minerals, subject to compliance with the General Mining Law and Nevada state law governing the staking and registration of mining claims, as well as compliance with various federal, state and local operating and environmental laws, regulations and ordinances. As the owner or lessee of the unpatented mining claims, the Company has the right to conduct mining operations on the lands subject to the prior procurement of required operating permits and approvals, compliance with the terms and conditions of any applicable mining lease, and compliance with applicable federal, state, and local laws, regulations and ordinances.

Mining Operations 

The exploration of mining properties and development and operation of mines is governed by both federal and state laws. 

The State of Nevada likewise requires various permits and approvals before mining operations can begin, although the state and federal regulatory agencies usually cooperate to minimize duplication of permitting efforts. Among other things, a detailed reclamation plan must be prepared and approved, with bonding in the amount of projected reclamation costs. The bond is used to ensure that proper reclamation takes place, and the bond will not be released until that time. The Nevada Department of Environmental Protection, which is referred to as the NDEP, is the state agency that administers the reclamation permits, mine permits and related closure plans on the Nevada property. Local jurisdictions (such as Eureka County) may also impose permitting requirements (such as conditional use permits or zoning approvals).

Environmental Law 

The development, operation, closure, and reclamation of mining projects in the United States requires numerous notifications, permits, authorizations, and public agency decisions. Compliance with environmental and related laws and regulations requires us to obtain permits issued by regulatory agencies, and to file various reports and keep records of the Company&#146;s operations. Certain of these permits require periodic renewal or review of their conditions and may be subject to a public review process during which opposition to the Company&#146;s proposed operations may be encountered. The Company is currently operating under various permits for activities connected to mineral exploration, reclamation, and environmental considerations. Unless and until a mineral resource is proved, it is 

Page 5 of 58 

unlikely Star Gold Corp. operations will move beyond the exploration stage. If in the future the Company decides to proceed beyond exploration, there will be numerous notifications, permit applications, and other decisions to be addressed at that time. 

Competition 

Star Gold Corp. competes with other mineral resource exploration and development companies for financing and for the acquisition of new mineral properties and also for equipment and labor related to exploration and development of mineral properties. Many of the mineral resource exploration and development companies with whom the Company competes have greater financial and technical resources. Accordingly, competitors may be able to spend greater amounts on acquisitions of mineral properties of merit, on exploration of their mineral properties and on development of their mineral properties. In addition, they may be able to afford greater geological expertise in the targeting and exploration of mineral properties. This competition could result in competitors having mineral properties of greater quality and interest to prospective investors who may finance additional exploration and development. This competition could adversely impact Star Gold Corp.&#146;s ability to finance further exploration and to achieve the financing necessary for the Company to develop its mineral properties.

The Company provides no assurance it will be able to compete in any of its business areas effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures faced by the Company will not have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and operating results. 

Office and Other Facilities 

Star Gold Corp. currently maintains its administrative offices at 611 E. Sherman Avenue, Coeur d'Alene, ID 83814. The telephone number is (208) 664-5066. Star Gold Corp. does not currently own title to any real property. 

Employees 

The Company has no employees other than its executive officers as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Star Gold Corp. conducts business largely through independent contractor agreements with consultants. 

Research and Development Expenditures 

The Company has not incurred any research expenditures since incorporation.

Reports to Security Holders 

The Registrant does not issue annual or quarterly reports to security holders other than the annual Form 10-K and quarterly Forms 10-Q as electronically filed with the SEC. Electronically filed reports may be accessed at www.sec.gov . Interested parties also may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street NW, Washington, DC 20549. Information may be obtained on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330.

&#160; 