 Item 1. Business. Overview 

We are a clinical-stage oncology company led by a world-class senior management team of proven oncology drug developers. Our vision is to be a leader in developing and commercializing a broad and diverse portfolio of cancer therapies that deliver therapeutic outcomes that dramatically change patients&#146; lives. In addition to advancing our lead product candidate, PNT2258, we are seeking to expand the number of products we have under clinical development to leverage the full potential of our team. 

Our lead product candidate, PNT2258, is based on our proprietary DNA interference (DNAi) technology platform. PNT2258 is designed to target BCL2, a widely overexpressed oncogene that is an important gatekeeper of the programmed cell death process known as apoptosis and has been linked to many forms of cancer. In a recent single-agent Phase 2 trial of 13 patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin&#146;s lymphoma (NHL), PNT2258 demonstrated evidence of anti-tumor activity, with 11 patients achieving a complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD). Furthermore, all four of the diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) patients treated in this trial experienced a clinical response, including three CRs and one PR, with reported durations on study in the range of nine to more than 28 months. Although not statistically powered for a formal efficacy analysis, we believe the preliminary evidence of efficacy observed in this trial, coupled with safety and tolerability data collected to date, suggest that PNT2258 has potential in the treatment of a variety of oncology indications. 

Our lead product candidate, PNT2258, is a proprietary formulation of our single-stranded 24-base DNAi oligonucleotide, known as PNT100, encapsulated in the SMARTICLES Lipid Nanoparticle (LNP). PNT100 DNAi is designed to target a genetic regulatory region associated with BCL2, an important and validated oncogene known to be dysregulated in many types of cancer. This dysregulation, which is manifested in the excess production of BCL2 protein, is believed to provide certain cancer cells with the ability to resist naturally occurring apoptosis, which is a primary mechanism for the removal of aged, damaged or unnecessary cells. Since we estimate that BCL2 is expressed in more than 60% of all new cases across the top 10 most commonly diagnosed cancers in the United States, we believe there is the potential to develop PNT2258 across a variety of oncology indications. 

We are pursuing a multi-faceted clinical development strategy that is designed to achieve regulatory approval and maximize the commercial opportunity of PNT2258. We have conducted two clinical trials with PNT2258 to date: a Phase 1 safety trial in patients with relapsed or refractory solid tumors and a Phase 2 trial in patients with relapsed or refractory NHL. Having observed preliminary evidence of efficacy and tolerability, we plan to pursue a broad registration-oriented clinical development program, initially in hematologic malignancies, that we anticipate will provide the foundation of a global registration strategy for PNT2258. 

In December 2014, we initiated &#147;Wolverine,&#148; an open-label 60 patient Phase 2 trial evaluating PNT2258 for the treatment of third-line relapsed or refractory DLBCL. Initial interim data from this trial is expected to be reported in June 2016. DLBCL is the most prevalent form of NHL, comprising approximately 30% of the annual NHL diagnoses in the United States according to a 2013 report by the Leukemia &#38; Lymphoma Society. In October 2015, we initiated &#147;Brighton,&#148; an open-label 50 patient Phase 2 trial evaluating PNT2258 for the treatment of Richter&#146;s transformed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Richter&#146;s CLL). Initial interim data from this trial is expected to be reported in December 2016. Richter&#146;s CLL is a rare and aggressive form of NHL with no currently approved therapies. 

We are also designing a number of additional Phase 2 trials that could support the registration and commercialization strategies for PNT2258. We are carefully considering the timing of these additional trials with a view to maximizing PNT2258&#146;s potential while deploying our capital prudently. Based on our current 

&#160;

development strategy, we are planning to initiate two Phase 2 trials, &#147;Cypress&#148; and &#147;Granite&#148;, with PNT2258 for the treatment of second-line DLBCL in combination with other treatment regimens: in combination with R-ICE (Rituximab, Ifosfamide, Carboplatin, Etoposide) in the &#147;transplant eligible&#148; patient population; and in combination with BR (Bendamustine, Rituximab) in the &#147;transplant ineligible&#148; patient population. We may also evaluate PNT2258&#146;s potential in DLBCL in combination with a targeted anti-cancer drug, and we may also evaluate PNT2258 in other hematological malignancies. If the efficacy data obtained in some or all of these trials are highly compelling, we plan to discuss accelerated registration paths and other regulatory designations with regulatory agencies. As appropriate, we may apply for orphan drug, breakthrough therapy, fast track or other regulatory designations. 

Our Strategy 

Key elements of our business strategy are to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Expedite the Clinical Development and Regulatory Approval of PNT2258 . We plan to advance our lead product candidate, PNT2258, for the treatment of several hematologic malignancies, initially focusing on indications where we believe PNT2258 has demonstrated anti-tumor activity and where there are significant unmet medical needs. The first two indications we plan to pursue are in DLBCL and Richter&#146;s CLL. In December 2014, we initiated Wolverine, a Phase 2 trial for the treatment of third-line relapsed or refractory DLBCL, and in October 2015, we initiated Brighton, a Phase 2 trial for the treatment of Richter&#146;s CLL. We are also designing a number of additional Phase 2 trials that could support the registration and commercialization strategies for PNT2258. If the data obtained in any of these trials are highly compelling, we plan to discuss accelerated registration paths and other regulatory designations with regulatory agencies. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Pursue a Multi-Faceted Development Strategy for PNT2258 Across Many Oncology Indications . In addition to developing PNT2258 for DLBCL and Richter&#146;s CLL, we intend to expand the commercial market opportunity for PNT2258 by developing it for the treatment of a wide variety of BCL2-driven tumors, such as leukemias or solid tumors, as monotherapy and in combination with other therapeutic agents or treatment regimens. BCL2 overexpression has also been implicated as a driver of a wide variety of solid tumors, including breast, prostate and lung, which could provide additional future development opportunities for PNT2258. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Maximize the Global Commercial Value of our Product Candidates . As we further develop our products, we plan to build a commercial infrastructure with the capability to directly market our product candidates to oncologists in North America, and possibly other major geographies that are core to our commercial strategy. We plan to enter into collaborations for the development, marketing and commercialization of our product candidates in additional geographies at an appropriate time. We also plan to invest in scaling our manufacturing capacity to support our global commercial strategy. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Continue to Invest in our Proprietary DNAi Technology Platform and Evaluate its Potential to Yield Additional Pipeline Products . We plan to continue to conduct research in the field of DNAi to further our understanding of the anti-cancer mechanism of action of this technology. We believe DNAi technology may be applicable to additional high value genetic targets beyond BCL2 that are also challenging to effectively drug by conventional means. We plan to evaluate the potential of our DNAi technology platform to yield additional pipeline product candidates by targeting the genetic regulatory regions of oncogenes known to be involved in cancer. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Broaden our Proprietary Pipeline by Acquiring Product Candidates. We are actively seeking to acquire additional oncology product candidates through in-licensing or other strategic opportunities in order to leverage the full potential of our team. We are primarily seeking to acquire oncology drug candidates that could be advanced into human clinical trials within the next 12 to18 months and that potentially could be complementary to our lead drug when administered in combination. &#160;

Background on DNA and its Role in Cancer 

Cancer is a leading cause of death in the developed world and the second leading cause of death in the United States, with 596,000 deaths and 1.7 million new cases estimated to occur in the United States in 2016, according to the American Cancer Society (ACS). The International Agency for Research on Cancer projects that in 2030, 21.7 million people will be diagnosed with cancer and 13 million will die of cancer in that year worldwide. 

Cancer typically develops when DNA in normal cells begins to fail and genes that regulate the cell become disrupted, leading to uncontrolled growth and survival. These cancer-causing oncogenes may be triggered by external factors, such as chemicals, radiation and viruses, or internal factors, such as hormones, immune conditions and inherited mutations. 

The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and drug therapy. A cancer patient often receives treatment with a combination of these methods. Surgery and radiation therapy are particularly effective for patients in whom the disease is localized. Physicians generally use systemic drug therapies in situations where the cancer has spread beyond the primary site or cannot otherwise be treated through surgery or radiation. The goal of drug therapy is to kill cancer cells or to damage cellular components required for the rapid growth and survival of cancer cells. In many cases, drug therapy entails the administration of several different drugs in combination. Over the past several decades, drug therapy has evolved from non-specific drugs that kill both healthy and cancerous cells, to drugs that target specific molecular pathways to selectively kill only cancer cells. While heightened vigilance, new diagnostic tests, combination regimens and targeted therapies have resulted in improvements in overall survival for some cancer patients, we believe that there is still a necessity for continued innovation in the treatment of cancer. 

Much of cancer drug discovery has focused on therapeutic intervention at the protein level through conventional approaches, including small molecules and antibodies. However, many proteins are not &#147;druggable&#148; by small molecules or antibodies. Small molecule drugs can target proteins inside the cell, but are often limited to proteins with accessible functional domains. Antibodies are limited to targeting circulating proteins or those expressed on the cell surface. More recently, there has been broad interest in potentially drugging mRNA as a way of impacting oncology targets that were otherwise intractable to small molecules or antibodies, but development has been challenged by issues of delivery, toxicity and potency. We believe that there is substantial opportunity for the next-generation of cancer treatments to target DNA itself, directly interfering with the oncogenes responsible for cancer. This difference may allow our DNAi to have a more profound impact on oncogenic targets that may be difficult to drug effectively with these other approaches, and, therefore, potentially result in enhanced efficacy, durability and safety outcomes. In addition, we believe that our unique mechanism could also potentially amplify and be complementary to other therapeutic modalities. 

With the vast trove of data about human DNA generated by the Human Genome Project and other genomic research, scientists and clinicians have more powerful tools to study the role that genetic factors play in complex diseases such as cancer. By leveraging this robust dataset, we can deploy our DNAi technology platform to identify oncogenes suitable for interference. We identified the BCL2 oncogene as a compelling oncogenic target for developing our first DNAi-based therapeutic. 

Our Initial Target Oncogene &#150; BCL2, a Key Regulator of Apoptosis 

Apoptosis, or naturally occurring programmed cell death, is a primary mechanism for the removal of aged, damaged and unnecessary cells. BCL2 was the first apoptotic regulator identified. The discovery that the BCL2 protein was found to inhibit cell death supported the notion that cancer is not only enabled by unlimited proliferation, but also by impaired apoptosis. 

In cancer patients, higher levels of BCL2 expression are generally correlated with poor prognoses and resistance to chemotherapies. By promoting cancer cell survival, BCL2 overexpression contributes to tumor formation and 

&#160;

growth, as well as the subsequent development of chemo-resistance as observed in a broad variety of tumors. Given its central role in cancer cell survival, BCL2 is an important and validated oncogenic target for therapeutic development. 

Aberrant BCL2 control mechanisms are a defining characteristic of a variety of cancers. BCL2 overexpression is found not only in NHL, but also in other hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. We estimate that BCL2 is expressed in more than 60% of all new cases across the top 10 most commonly diagnosed cancers in the United States. 

Our Approach &#150; DNAi 

Our DNAi technology platform is based on the breakthrough discovery at Wayne State University and Karmanos Cancer Institute that single-stranded DNA oligonucleotides can interact with genomic DNA in order to interfere with oncogenes. We acquired this technology and subsequently developed an algorithm for identifying DNAi product candidates using bioinformatics and our understanding of gene regulatory regions. In particular, understanding which specific sequences of DNA are involved in regulating genes, as well as identifying which regions reside in an accessible open DNA conformation, are important components of our know-how in designing DNAi oligonucleotides. 

The ability to leverage DNAi as a broadly applicable therapeutic modality requires an effective delivery vehicle. Our approach uses pH-responsive LNPs designed to protect our DNAi oligonucleotides and deliver them to cancer cells, enabling broad systemic distribution after intravenous infusion. Specifically, our LNPs are composed of a proprietary liposomal formulation of four lipids selected to impart stability, enhance pharmacokinetics and facilitate systemic exposure of the drug payload. In particular, our LNPs have been engineered to avoid sequestration in the liver, and, unlike other technologies, our LNPs can dynamically change their surface electrical charge. They are negatively charged at physiological pH levels, and do not employ PEG stabilizers and therefore do not interact with the patient&#146;s immune system and other biological factors that can result in toxicities. Within the acidic environment found in tumors, our LNPs become positively charged and therefore more amenable to cellular uptake and cytoplasmic release of their payloads. 

In general, the effective systemic delivery of oligonucleotides has been a profound challenge to their deployment as therapeutics. We believe the favorable properties of our LNPs may offer advantages over certain other nanoparticle delivery systems, underscoring our decision to exclusively license the SMARTICLES LNP technology for the field of DNAi. 

In order to maintain our competitive position in the field of DNAi, we plan to continue conducting research to further our understanding of this technology. We believe that DNAi technology may be applicable to additional high value genetic targets beyond BCL2 that are also challenging to drug by conventional means. 

Our Lead Product Candidate &#150; PNT2258 

Overview 

Our lead DNAi product candidate, PNT2258, is a proprietary formulation of our single-stranded 24-base DNAi oligonucleotide, known as PNT100, encapsulated in our LNP. After intravenous infusion, PNT2258 achieves broad systemic distribution and is taken up by cancer cells, where PNT100 DNAi oligonucleotides traffic to the nuclei of cells, and is designed to target a genetic regulatory region involved in the transcription of BCL2. 

Design of PNT2258 

The design of PNT2258 comprises two components, which are depicted below: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; PNT100 DNAi Oligonucleotide . The active ingredient of PNT2258 is our PNT100 DNAi, a single-stranded 24-base oligonucleotide. PNT100 DNAi oligonucleotides are designed to target a specific regulatory region of the BCL2 oncogene. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; LNP Delivery Technology . In PNT2258, protective amphoteric liposomes encapsulate PNT100 DNAi, providing enhanced serum stability and optimized pharmacokinetic properties to facilitate their broad systemic distribution after intravenous infusion. Within the acidic environment found in tumors, our LNPs become positively charged and therefore more amenable to cellular uptake and cytoplasmic release of their payloads. The Design of PNT2258 Comprises Two Components 

&#160;

Our Initial Focus in Lymphoma and Leukemia 

Lymphoma is the most common blood cancer, with an estimated 81,000 new cases of lymphoma expected to be diagnosed in 2016, according to the ACS. Lymphoma occurs when cells of the immune system, or lymphocytes, grow and multiply uncontrollably. The two main types of lymphocytes that can develop into lymphomas are B-lymphocytes (B-cells) and T-lymphocytes (T-cells). Lymphoma is further classified as either Hodgkin&#146;s or non-Hodgkin&#146;s. NHL, a type of B-cell lymphoma, describes a diverse group of blood cancers that arise from the damaged DNA of a lymphocyte parent cell. NHL, which comprises more than 60 subtypes, is the most common form of lymphoma and is expected to account for approximately 73,000 new cases in the United States in 2016, according to the ACS. NHL carries a much poorer prognosis than Hodgkin&#146;s lymphoma, and is expected to account for approximately 20,800 of 21,000 total annual deaths caused by lymphoma in the United States in 2016, according to the ACS. Additionally, while incidence rates for Hodgkin&#146;s lymphoma have recently remained stable, the incidence of NHL has increased over time. 

One NHL subtype where BCL2 overexpression is thought to be a key driver of disease is DLBCL. This aggressive form of cancer is the most prevalent form of NHL, comprising approximately 30% of the annual NHL diagnoses in the United States according to a 2013 report by the Leukemia &#38; Lymphoma Society. DLBCL affects mostly middle aged and older adults and is aggressive but potentially curable. First-line treatment of intensive combination chemotherapy involving rituximab may cure approximately 67% of patients. If this fails, second-line treatment is typically platinum-based chemotherapy along with continued rituximab. In the event that a response is achieved with second-line treatment, patients may be given a hematopoietic stem cell transplant. If second-line treatment or the transplant fails, patients are left with few options and little hope of a curative therapy. The median survival for third-line DLBCL patients is approximately six months. 

Leukemia is cancer of the body&#146;s blood-forming tissues, including the bone marrow and the lymphatic system. According to the ACS, an estimated 60,000 new cases of leukemia are expected to be diagnosed in 2016. One of the main types of leukemia is chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a type of blood cancer that begins in the bone marrow. According to the ACS, approximately 19,000 individuals in the United States are expected to be diagnosed with CLL in 2016. High level BCL2 expression is seen in most patients with CLL. Though typically 

&#160;

classified as a low-grade lymphoproliferative disorder, 3% to 11% of CLL patients will experience transformation to Richter&#146;s CLL, a fast-growing variant of DLBCL, during the course of their disease. Richter&#146;s CLL is a highly proliferative, rapidly progressing disease affecting mostly older adults with a median survival of approximately one year, and represents a significant unmet medical need with no currently approved therapies. 

Status of Our Clinical Development Program 

In February 2008, we submitted an investigational new drug (IND) application for PNT2258 as an anticancer agent. The IND is currently active and all completed and currently planned clinical trials for PNT2258 have been or are being conducted under this IND. 

We have conducted two clinical trials with single-agent PNT2258 to date: a Phase 1 safety trial in 22 patients with relapsed or refractory solid tumors and a Phase 2 trial in 13 patients with relapsed or refractory NHL. 

In December 2014, we initiated Wolverine, an open-label 60 patient Phase 2 trial evaluating single-agent PNT2258 for the treatment of third-line relapsed or refractory DLBCL. In October 2015, we initiated Brighton, an open-label 50 patient Phase 2 trial evaluating single-agent PNT2258 for the treatment of Richter&#146;s CLL. 

We are also designing a number of additional Phase 2 trials that could support the registration and commercialization strategies for PNT2258. This includes two Phase 2 trials with PNT2258 for the treatment of second-line DLBCL in combination with other treatment regimens, in the &#147;transplant eligible&#148; and &#147;transplant ineligible&#148; patient populations. We also may evaluate PNT2258&#146;s potential in DLBCL in combination with a targeted anti-cancer drug and may evaluate PNT2258 in other hematological malignancies. We are carefully considering the timing of these additional trials with a view to maximizing PNT2258&#146;s potential while deploying our capital prudently. 

In order to obtain regulatory approval and potentially commercialize PNT2258, we will need to complete the Phase 2 clinical trials described above and possibly Phase 3 registration-oriented clinical trials in order to properly evaluate the safety and efficacy of PNT2258. If the efficacy data obtained in some or all of the Phase 2 trials are highly compelling, we plan to discuss accelerated registration paths and other regulatory designations with regulatory agencies. In order to obtain marketing approval to commercialize PNT2258, a new drug application (NDA) must be filed with, and approved by, the FDA. Additionally during this time, we will need to complete manufacturing validation runs and commercial manufacturing facility readiness for prior approval inspections in preparation for the NDA and product launch. 

The amount and timing of our expenditures on these trials will depend upon numerous factors, including the ongoing status and results. Although it is difficult to predict additional capital requirements, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to allow us to achieve clinical data read-outs for the Wolverine and Brighton trials. We anticipate that we will need additional funding to complete these and our other planned clinical trials. 

PNT2258-01: Phase 1 Trial in Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumor Malignancies 

Trial Overview 

We initiated our Phase 1 dose escalation clinical trial with PNT2258 in 2010 to determine the safety and tolerability of PNT2258 administered by intravenous infusion. This Phase 1 trial involved 22 patients with relapsed or refractory solid tumor malignancies, including patients diagnosed with non-small cell lung cancer, squamous cell cancer of the head and neck, colorectal cancer, breast cancer, endometrial cancer, liver cancer, pancreatic cancer and prostate cancer. As this trial was safety oriented, patients were not chosen for participation on the basis of their BCL2 status and, thus, overt evidence of anti-tumor effect was not expected. Data from the trial were also used to determine an appropriate dose and schedule for subsequent trials and to evaluate any preliminary anti-cancer activity of PNT2258. 

&#160;

Safety Results 

PNT2258 was administered on days one through five of a 21-day schedule at doses ranging from 1 to 150 mg/m 2 over a two to four hour intravenous infusion. At all dose levels, patients received a range of zero to eight cycles with a median of two cycles. Of the 310 planned doses of PNT2258, 299 were administered as scheduled. No subjects were dose-reduced for toxicity. 

Across all dose levels, and regardless of attribution, a total of 82 treatment emergent adverse events (AEs), and six serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported. The most common AEs were fatigue (eight events in seven patients; 7/22 patients, 31.8%; grade range 1-2) and infusion reaction manifesting as back or flank pain (eight events in five patients; 5/22 patients, 22.7%; grade range 2-3.) An increase in aspartate aminotransferase at the 150 mg/m 2 dose level was observed in a patient with metastatic disease to the liver and resolved spontaneously within 48 hours, and one patient developed a grade 4 thrombocytopenia within 30 days of study participation at the 150 mg/m 2 dose level. The most common reasons for study discontinuation were progressive disease or symptomatic deterioration (13 patients, 62%) or lack of clinical benefit (5 patients, 24%). Two patients (9%) discontinued therapy due to an adverse event and one patient (4%) withdrew informed. One patient died as a result of disease progression within 30 days of trial participation. 

PNT2258 was considered to be well tolerated at all doses by the investigators in this trial. In addition, there was no evidence of a systemic immune response to the LNP or PNT100; no significant changes in immune-stimulatory cytokines or clinical signs of anaphylaxis following dosing of PNT2258 were observed, which supports the lack of a non-specific immune response. 

Efficacy Results 

Patients were not enrolled in this trial on the basis of their BCL2 expression status; thus, overt evidence of anti-tumor effect was not expected. Of the 22 patients participating in the Phase 1 trial, six had SD at the time of the end-of-cycle two CT scan and none achieved a CR or PR. Four patients remained in the trial for greater than four cycles (range 5-8 cycles). 

PNT2258-02: Phase 2 Trial in Relapsed or Refractory NHL 

Trial Overview 

In December 2012, we initiated a single arm, open-label Phase 2 trial in patients with relapsed or refractory NHL, defined as patients who are no longer or were never responsive to treatment with approved or experimental therapies. The primary objective was to determine PNT2258&#146;s anti-tumor activity across several hematological malignancies and to collect safety data. 

The trial enrolled 13 patients with a median age of 63 who had been previously treated with one to four prior regimens; six of these patients were refractory to prior treatment. Of these 13 patients, four patients were diagnosed with DLBCL, five with follicular non-Hodgkin&#146;s lymphoma (FL), two with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) and two with CLL/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). 

Phase 2 Trial Dosing Regimen in Relapsed or Refractory NHL 

&#160;

&#160;

As shown in the figure above, in the induction phase, patients received 120 mg/m 2 of PNT2258 over a three to five hour intravenous infusion on days one through five of a 21-day cycle for six to eight cycles. In the continuation phase, patients who achieved stable disease or better received 100 mg/m 2 over a two hour intravenous infusion on days one and two of a 28-day cycle, until disease progression. 

Efficacy Results 

In November 2014, we reported that 11 of the 13 (85%) patients achieved CR, PR or SD. In accordance with the International Working Group response criteria for each indication, potential responses include: CR, which for CLL means complete remission and for the other indications listed means complete response; PR, which for CLL means partial remission and for the other indications listed means partial response; SD which means stable disease for all indications listed; and PD, which means progressive disease for all indications listed. 

Of the four DLBCL patients, three achieved CRs and one achieved a PR, with reported durations on study ranging from nine to more than 28 months. Of the five FL patients, one achieved a CR, one achieved a PR and three responded with SDs, with reported durations on study ranging from four months to more than 34 months. Of the two patients with CLL, one responded with SD and the other responded with PD. Of the two MCL patients, one responded with SD and other responded with PD. The table below summarizes the duration on study in the 13 patients as of each patient&#146;s last reported scan: 

Duration on Study with PNT2258 in Phase 2 Trial 

&#160;

A notable durable CR was achieved in a 79-year-old male with Richter&#146;s CLL. The patient presented with aggressive disease at baseline and was refractory to two prior chemotherapy-containing regimens for Richter&#146;s CLL. After six cycles of treatment with single-agent PNT2258, the patient experienced a complete metabolic response that was defined as a CR. The patient remained on study for 10 months before progressing. 

&#160;

Safety Results 

Patients were scheduled to receive PNT2258 at a dose of 120 mg/m2 IV over two to four hours, on days one through five of a 21-day cycle for six to eight cycles. All patients received PNT2258 per the aforementioned dose and schedule, with the exception of 4 patients who received reduced doses of PNT2258. 

The most commonly reported drug-related AEs (in two or more patients) were nausea and chills, occurring in 12 and 8 patients respectively, as well as diarrhea, fatigue and vomiting (each in eight patients). The majority of drug-related AEs were assessed as grade 1 or 2 in severity. Most frequently reported grade 3 drug-related AEs were diarrhea (in three patients), as well as nausea, neutropenia, hyperphosphataemia and back and groin pain (each in two patients). Two related SAEs were reported; one grade 3 event of dehydration and one grade 2 event of altered mental status. There were no occurrences of grade 4 AEs and no drug-related discontinuations or deaths. No occurrences of tumor lysis syndrome, hyperkalemia, or hypocalcemia were noted. 

For patients that experienced infusion-related events such as back or groin pain, chills and nausea, supportive care measures were usually sufficient to allow administration of the full dose of PNT2258 and adherence to the administration schedule. 

These data demonstrate that PNT2258 administered to patients with recurrent or treatment refractory NHL was generally well tolerated and without evidence of significant metabolic abnormality or major organ toxicity. 

Clinical Development Strategy 

Having observed preliminary evidence of efficacy and tolerability in clinical trials to date, and given our belief that PNT2258 has the potential to be efficacious across a wide range of oncology indications, we plan to pursue a broad registration-oriented clinical development program, initially in hematologic malignancies, that may provide the foundation of a global registration strategy for PNT2258. In particular, in December 2014, we initiated Wolverine, a Phase 2 trial for the treatment of third-line relapsed or refractory DLBCL, and in October 2015, we initiated Brighton, a Phase 2 trial evaluating PNT2258 for the treatment of Richter&#146;s CLL. 

Given that BCL2 overexpression has been implicated as a fundamental driver in a wide variety of cancers, a primary goal of our clinical development strategy is to exploit the full commercial potential of PNT2258 by developing the product candidate in earlier lines of therapy in DLBCL and additional indications, either as monotherapy or in combination with other therapeutic agents or treatment regimens. Specifically, we believe that PNT2258 could also potentially amplify and be complementary to other therapeutic modalities. 

We plan to initiate additional Phase 2 trials with PNT2258 in combination with other therapeutic agents or treatment regiments and we may also evaluate PNT2258&#146;s potential in other hematological malignancies. If the efficacy data obtained in some or all of these trials are highly compelling, we plan to discuss accelerated registration paths and other regulatory designations with regulatory agencies. As appropriate, we may apply for orphan drug, breakthrough therapy, fast track or other regulatory designations. 

PNT2258-03 Wolverine Trial in Relapsed or Refractory DLBCL 

In December 2014, the first patient was enrolled in our Phase 2 Wolverine trial in third-line relapsed or refractory DLBCL. Wolverine is a multi-center, open-label Phase 2 trial of single-agent PNT2258 that will characterize anti-tumor activity and collect safety data on approximately 60 patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL. Initial interim data from this trial is expected to be reported in June 2016. 

The primary endpoint is overall response rate (defined as the proportion of patients achieving CR or PR) and secondary endpoints include duration of response, disease control rate, progression-free survival, overall survival and exploratory predictors of outcome based on biomarker assessments as described below. We expect that the 

&#160;

results of this trial may ultimately be used to design a subsequent registration trial. However, if the data obtained are highly compelling, we plan to discuss accelerated registration paths and other regulatory designations with regulatory agencies. 

The Wolverine trial employs a two-phase dosing regimen. In the induction phase, patients will receive 120 mg/m 2 of PNT2258 intravenously on days one through five of a 21-day cycle. Treatment in the induction phase may continue for a total of eight cycles, unless there is disease progression or the occurrence of unacceptable toxicity. In the continuation phase, patients who achieve stable disease or better will receive 100 mg/m 2 intravenously on days one through four of a 28-day cycle, until disease progression. 

Biomarker Assessments 

The Wolverine trial has been designed to identify and characterize patients who respond to PNT2258 on the basis of their genetics and disease characteristics. In particular, BCL2 protein levels can be measured from tumor biopsies, and we plan to correlate clinical responses with BCL2 overexpression in these patients. 

Other exploratory predictors of outcome will be assessed by biomarker sample analysis. In particular, the &#147;double hit&#148; lymphoma population, representing approximately 30% of the total DLBCL population, has higher risk disease with a poorer prognosis than other DLBCL patients, and do not respond as well to standard treatment. These patients can be identified because they overexpress proteins from both the BCL2 and CMYC oncogenes. If PNT2258 shows efficacy in this population, it may represent an opportunity for future development in an area of high unmet medical need. 

Wolverine has also been designed to identify patient responders according to the genetics of their DLBCL cancer cells, specifically the cell-of-origin sub-type (germinal center B-cell (GCB) vs. activated B-cell (ABC)), as these patients tend to differ in their prognoses and response to medical treatment. Since BCL2 is overexpressed in both sub-types, PNT2258 may be active in both types of disease, which could potentially differentiate our drug versus certain other therapeutics in common use or in development that only demonstrate activity in one sub-type. 

PNT2258-04 Brighton Trial in Richter&#146;s CLL 

In October 2015, we initiated a Phase 2 trial for PNT2258 for the treatment of Richter&#146;s CLL. Brighton is a multi-center, open-label, Phase 2 investigation of single-agent PNT2258 to characterize anti-tumor activity and collect safety data on approximately 50 patients with Richter&#146;s CLL. 

The primary endpoint is overall response rate (defined as the proportion of patients achieving CR or PR) and secondary endpoints include duration of response, disease control rate, progression-free survival, overall survival and exploratory predictors of outcome. If the data obtained in this trial are highly compelling, we plan to discuss accelerated registration paths and other regulatory designations with regulatory agencies. 

The Brighton trial employs a two-phase dosing regimen. In the induction phase, patients will receive 120 mg/m 2 of PNT2258 intravenously on days one through five of a 21-day cycle. Treatment in the induction phase may continue for a total of eight cycles, unless disease progression or the occurrence of unacceptable toxicity. In the continuation phase, patients who achieve stable disease or better will receive 100 mg/m 2 intravenously on days one through four of a 28-day cycle, until disease progression. 

PNT2258-05 Cypress Combination Trial in Transplant Eligible Second line BCL 

The BCL2 oncogene is upregulated as a cancer cell survival mechanism following chemotherapy, and is therefore an important contributor to the development of chemo-resistance. We believe that targeting BCL2 through DNA interference may potentially sensitize cancer cells to chemotherapy. 

&#160;

This multi-center, open-label, Phase 2 trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of PNT2258 combined with the standard of care chemotherapy regimen (R-ICE) in patients with second-line recurrent or refractory BCL who are likely to undergo stem cell transplant. 

PNT2258-06 Granite Combination Trial in Transplant Ineligible Second line DLBCL 

This multi-center, open-label, Phase 2 trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of PNT2258 combined with a standard of care chemotherapy regimen (BR: Bendamustine, Rituximab) in patients with recurrent or refractory DLBCL who are unfit for stem cell transplant. 

Additional PNT2258 Combination and Monotherapy Phase 2 Trials 

Recent literature provides the scientific rationale for PNT2258 in combination with a number of targeted cancer therapeutics that modulate critical signaling pathways, such as CD20, BTK and PI3K, that invoke the apoptotic process and cause death of cancer cells. Since BCL2 resides at a key node of the apoptotic pathway, there is a scientific rationale to enhance the apoptotic signal with the addition of PNT2258 to these targeted therapies. We believe there is a strong scientific rationale to suggest that targeting BCL2 could be clinically beneficial in combination with a targeted therapy and may initiate a Phase 2 combination trial of PNT2258 in combination with a targeted therapy. 

Since we estimate that BCL2 is expressed in more than 60% of all new cases across the top 10 most commonly diagnosed cancers in the United States, we are also interested in developing PNT2258 for indications beyond DLBCL. Specifically, BCL2 is highly overexpressed in various other hematologic malignancies. We may initiate a trial to test the potential efficacy of PNT2258 as a single agent in the treatment of one or more other hematological malignancies. If initial results are promising, this trial may provide a basis for subsequent clinical development, facilitating PNT2258&#146;s entry into additional cancer indications to further broaden its commercial potential. BCL2 overexpression has also been implicated as a driver of a wide variety of solid tumors, including breast, prostate and lung, which could provide additional future development opportunities for PNT2258. 

License and Payment Agreements 

Marina License Agreement 

In March 2007, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with Novosom AG (Novosom) to use certain patented LNP delivery technology (SMARTICLES) for any of our DNAi drug candidates that target a region of the BCL2 gene. In July 2010, the original Novosom license agreement was acquired by Marina, but Novosom retained the right to receive all payments due from us under the original Novosom license agreement. 

In March 2012, we and Marina entered into another exclusive license agreement, which we refer to as the Marina license agreement, for the use of certain of Marina&#146;s patented delivery technology, including LNP technology, for any of our current or future DNAi product candidates that target any gene. In exchange for this exclusive right, we paid Marina an upfront payment of $0.3 million in 2012. We will also be required to pay Marina milestone payments of up to an aggregate of $14.5 million for each DNAi product candidate other than PNT2258 upon successful completion of certain clinical and regulatory milestone events relating to each DNAi product candidate. In addition, for DNAi product candidates other than PNT2258, we are required to pay Marina a low single-digit royalty on net sales of all licensed products by us, our affiliates or sublicensees. 

The Marina license agreement expires, on a licensed product-by-licensed product and country-by-country basis, on the earlier of (i) the end of the calendar quarter in which sales in such country of generic products for the licensed product exceed 25% of the sales of such licensed product in such country; or (ii) the later of (A) the date of expiration of the last to expire patent having a valid claim relating to such licensed product in a particular county or (B) 10 years after the first commercial sale of a licensed product in such country. Either party may 

&#160;

terminate the Marina license agreement in the event of a material breach that remains uncured following the date that is up to 120 days, depending on the type of breach, from the date that the breaching party is provided with written notice by the non-breaching party, or upon certain insolvency events relating to the other party. We may terminate the Marina license agreement at our sole discretion at any time upon 90 days written notice to Marina. 

Novosom Payment Agreement 

In connection with an amendment to the Marina license agreement in April 2014, the rights from Marina under the Marina license agreement were amended to expressly include PNT2258, and we terminated the prior license agreements with Novosom and entered into a license payment agreement with Novosom to restructure the payments owing for PNT2258. Pursuant to the license payment agreement, by making a one-time payment to Novosom of $11.0 million in April 2014, we terminated the other payment obligations owing to Novosom for PNT2258 except for one remaining $3.0 million milestone equivalent payment due upon regulatory authority approval of PNT2258, and a low single-digit royalty payment to Novosom on net sales of PNT2258. 

The license payment agreement expires on a country-by-country basis on the later of (i) the expiry, invalidation or abandonment of the last valid claim of a licensed patent right relating to the licensed product in such country; (ii) the licensed product becomes uncompetitive or unprofitable in such country or (iii) the expiration or termination of our remaining payment obligations to Novosom. In the license payment agreement, we and Marina further agreed not to terminate the Marina license agreement with respect to the use of the LNP delivery technology for PNT2258 or otherwise amend the agreement in a manner that would reduce or be likely to reduce the payments due to Novosom under the license payment agreement, without the prior consent of Novosom. 

Research and Development 

Since commencing operations, we have dedicated a significant portion of our resources to research and development activities, including the clinical development of our product candidate. We incurred research and development expenses of $26.4 million, $19.1 million and $2.8 million, during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We anticipate that a significant portion of our operating expenses will continue to be related to research and development as we continue to advance PNT2258. 

Intellectual Property 

Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary or intellectual property protection for PNT2258 and future product candidates, our DNAi technology and other know-how, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary or intellectual property rights. Our strategy is to seek to protect our proprietary position and intellectual property position by, among other methods, filing patent applications related to our proprietary technology and product candidates in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our proprietary and intellectual property position. 

We have filed and will continue to file patent applications directed to the compositions of matter and methods of use related to various aspects of PNT2258 and our DNAi technology. As of December 31, 2015, we were the owner of seven U.S. patents, expiring between 2017 and 2028, absent any adjustments or extensions, comprising claims directed to the compositions of PNT2258, PNT100, oligonucleotides directed against the oncogenes CMYC and RAS, and methods of use of pharmaceutical compositions comprising PNT2258 and rituximab. As of December 31, 2015, we also owned five pending U.S. patent applications, related to PNT2258 for the treatment of cancer indications as a single agent, or in combination with chemotherapeutics and/or rituximab and DNA oligonucleotides directed against various oncogenes, including RAS. Any patents issuing from these U.S. utility applications are expected to expire between 2024 and 2034, absent any adjustments or extensions. As of December 31, 2015, we also owned 39 issued foreign patents and 26 pending foreign patent applications in 23 foreign jurisdictions, including Australia, Canada, China, Europe and Japan. These foreign patents, and any 

&#160;

patents issuing from these pending foreign patent applications, are expected to expire between 2025 and 2034, absent any adjustments or extensions. These foreign patents and patent applications comprise claims that relate to the compositions of PNT2258, PNT100, oligonucleotides directed against the oncogenes CMYC, CHARAS, CKIRAS, HER2 and TGFBeta and methods of use of PNT2258 for cancer indications as a single agent or in combination with chemotherapeutics and/or rituximab. 

The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term for patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries, including the United States, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest filing date of a non-provisional patent application. In the United States, a patent&#146;s term may be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the USPTO in examining and granting a patent, or may be shortened if a patent is terminally disclaimed over an earlier filed patent. The term of a patent that covers a drug may also be eligible for patent term extension when FDA approval is granted, provided statutory and regulatory requirements are met. In the future, if and when our product candidates receive approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on issued patents covering those drugs, depending upon the length of the clinical trials for each product candidate and other factors. There can be no assurance that any of our pending patent applications will issue or that we will benefit from any patent term extension or favorable adjustment to the term of any of our patents. 

As with other oncology companies, our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary and intellectual property position for our product candidates and technologies will depend on our success in obtaining effective patent claims and enforcing those claims if granted. However, patent applications that we may file or license from third parties may not result in the issuance of patents. We also cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents. Our issued patents and any issued patents that we may receive in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. For example, we cannot be certain of the priority of inventions covered by pending third-party patent applications. If third parties prepare and file patent applications that also claim technology or therapeutics to which we have rights, we may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial costs to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. In addition, because of the extensive time required for clinical development and regulatory review of a product candidate we may develop, it is possible that, before PNT2258 or any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of any such patent. 

In addition to patents, we rely upon unpatented trade secrets and know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our proprietary information, in part, using confidentiality agreements with our scientific advisors and consultants, and invention assignment agreements with our employees. The confidentiality agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information and, in the case of agreements or clauses requiring invention assignment, to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed through our relationship with a third party. 

With respect to our DNAi technology platform, we consider trade secrets and know-how to be our primary intellectual property. Trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. We anticipate that with respect to this DNAi technology platform, these trade secrets and know-how may over time be disseminated within the industry through independent development, the publication of journal articles describing the methodology, and the movement of personnel skilled in the art from academic to industry scientific positions. 

Competition 

The oncology industry is characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. The key competitive factors affecting the success of all of our product candidates, if approved, are likely to be their efficacy, safety, convenience, price, the level of generic competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payors. While we believe that our technology, knowledge, experience and scientific resources provide us with competitive advantages, we face 

&#160;

potential competition from many different sources, including major pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future. To our knowledge, no other company has a DNAi-based product candidate in clinical development at the present time. 

If PNT2258 is approved for DLBCL or Richter&#146;s CLL, as the case may be, it will compete with existing therapies and currently marketed drugs, including the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; DLBCL . Therapy for DLBCL typically consists of multi-agent cytotoxic drugs in combination with the monoclonal antibody rituximab. In patients with DLBCL who are not elderly and who have good organ function, high dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplantation is often used. Newer targeted agents such as the BTK inhibitor ibrutinib and the immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide have shown activity in the ABC subtype of DLBCL. There are also a number of other widely used anti-cancer agents that have broad labels that include NHL, and some of these are being evaluated alone or in combination for the treatment of patients with DLBCL that have relapsed after several different types of chemotherapy. Certain monoclonal antibodies similar to rituximab are also being evaluated in relapsed DLBCL. Other oncology companies that have developed or are currently developing treatment for patients with DLBCL include Abbvie Inc., Bellicum Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Celgene Corporation, Epizyme, Inc., Juno Therapeutics, Inc., Karyopharm Therapeutics Inc., Kite Pharma, Inc., Novartis AG and Pharmacyclics, Inc. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Richter&#146;s CLL. Although there are no specific therapies approved to treat Richter&#146;s CLL, multi-agent cytotoxic drugs in combination with rituximab is typically used as a first-line treatment. To our knowledge, Karyopharm Therapeutics Inc. is the only other company with an active trial focused specifically on Richter&#146;s CLL. Many of the companies against which we are competing or against which we may compete in the future have significantly greater financial and other resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the oncology industry may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or that may be necessary for, our programs. 

Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize drugs that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any drugs that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their product candidates more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third-party payors seeking to encourage the use of generic drugs. 

Manufacturing 

We do not have any manufacturing facilities. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the manufacture of PNT2258 and other potential product candidates for preclinical and clinical testing, as well as for commercial manufacture if our product candidates receive marketing approval. We have engaged third-party manufacturers to manufacture PNT100 and to obtain lipids and other raw materials and consumables necessary for the manufacture of PNT2258. In addition, we continue to invest in process development and scale up activities relating to PNT100 and PNT2258 with a view to establishing robust, commercial scale manufacturing processes for both. 

&#160;

We do not currently have arrangements in place for redundant supply. We believe that our manufacturers have sufficient capacity to meet our current demand and, in the event they fail to meet our demand, adequate alternative sources for such materials exist. However, there is a risk that if supplies are interrupted or result in poor yield or quality, it would materially harm our business. We will continue to evaluate product demand requirements and qualify alternate sources for PNT100 and PNT2258 on an as-needed basis. 

Manufacturing is subject to extensive regulations that impose various procedural and documentation requirements, which govern record keeping, manufacturing processes and controls, personnel, quality control and quality assurance, among others. Our contract manufacturing organizations are required to comply with current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) regulations, which are regulatory requirements for the production of pharmaceuticals that will be used in humans. 

Government Regulation 

FDA Approval Process 

In the United States, pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act) and other federal and state statutes and regulations, govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, recordkeeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling, and import and export of pharmaceutical products. Failure to comply with applicable U.S. requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve pending NDAs, warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecution. 

Pharmaceutical product development for a new product or certain changes to an approved product in the United States typically involves preclinical laboratory and animal tests, the submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before clinical testing may commence, and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of the drug for each indication for which FDA approval is sought. Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements typically takes many years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. 

Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, formulation and toxicity, as well as animal trials to assess the characteristics and potential safety and efficacy of the product. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements, including good laboratory practices. The results of preclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND along with other information, including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls, and a proposed clinical trial protocol. Long term preclinical tests, such as animal tests of reproductive toxicity and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted. 

A 30-day waiting period after the submission of each IND is required prior to the commencement of clinical testing in humans. If the FDA has neither commented on nor questioned the IND within this 30-day period, the clinical trial proposed in the IND may begin. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted (i) in compliance with federal regulations; (ii) in compliance with good clinical practice (GCP), an international standard meant to protect the rights and health of patients and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, administrators and monitors; and (iii) under protocols detailing the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol involving testing on U.S. patients and subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. 

&#160;

The FDA may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time, or impose other sanctions, if it believes that the clinical trial either is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. The trial protocol and informed consent information for patients in clinical trials must also be submitted to an institutional review board (IRB) for approval. An IRB may also require the clinical trial at the site to be halted, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB&#146;s requirements, or may impose other conditions. 

Clinical trials to support NDAs for marketing approval are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. In Phase 1, the initial introduction of the drug into healthy patients, the drug is tested to assess metabolism, pharmacokinetics, pharmacological actions, side effects associated with increasing doses and, if possible, early evidence on effectiveness. Phase 2 usually involves trials in a limited patient population to determine the effectiveness of the drug for a particular indication, dosage tolerance and optimum dosage, and to identify common adverse effects and safety risks. If a compound demonstrates evidence of effectiveness and an acceptable safety profile in Phase 2 evaluations, Phase 3 trials are undertaken to obtain the additional information about clinical efficacy and safety in a larger number of patients, typically at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, to permit FDA to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the drug. In most cases FDA requires two adequate and well-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy of the drug. A single Phase 3 trial with other confirmatory evidence may be sufficient in rare instances where the trial is a large multicenter trial demonstrating internal consistency and a statistically very persuasive finding of a clinically meaningful effect on mortality, irreversible morbidity or prevention of a disease with a potentially serious outcome and confirmation of the result in a second trial would be practically or ethically impossible. 

After completion of the required clinical testing, an NDA is prepared and submitted to the FDA. FDA approval of the NDA is required before marketing of the product may begin in the United States. The NDA must include the results of all preclinical, clinical and other testing and a compilation of data relating to the product&#146;s pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture and controls. The cost of preparing and submitting an NDA is substantial. The submission of most NDAs is additionally subject to a substantial application user fee, and the applicant under an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees. These fees are typically increased annually. 

The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of an NDA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency&#146;s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA has agreed to certain performance goals in the review of NDAs. Most such applications for standard review drug products are reviewed within ten to twelve months; most applications for priority review drugs are reviewed in six to eight months. Priority review can be applied to drugs that the FDA determines offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. For biologics, priority review is further limited only for drugs intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease relative to the currently approved products. The review process for both standard and priority review may be extended by FDA for three additional months to consider certain late-submitted information, or information intended to clarify information already provided in the submission. 

The FDA may also refer applications for novel drug products, or drug products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy, to an advisory committee&#151;typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts&#151;for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. Additionally, the FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured. FDA will not approve the product unless compliance with cGMPs is satisfactory and the NDA contains data that provide substantial evidence that the drug is safe and effective in the indication studied. 

&#160;

After FDA evaluates the NDA and the manufacturing facilities, it issues either an approval letter or a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If, or when, those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. 

An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. As a condition of NDA approval, the FDA may require Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) to help ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the potential risks. REMS can include medication guides, communication plans for healthcare professionals and elements to assure safe use (ETASU). ETASU can include, but are not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring and the use of patient registries. The requirement for REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the drug. Moreover, product approval may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug&#146;s safety or efficacy. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing. 

Changes to some of the conditions established in an approved application, including changes in indications, labeling or manufacturing processes or facilities, require submission and FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement before the change can be implemented. An NDA supplement for a new indication typically requires clinical data similar to that in the original application, and the FDA uses the same procedures and actions in reviewing NDA supplements as it does in reviewing NDAs. 

Pediatric Information 

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA), NDAs or supplements to NDAs must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the drug is safe and effective. The FDA may grant full or partial waivers, or deferrals, for submission of data. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any drug for an indication for which orphan designation has been granted. The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA) provides NDA holders a six-month extension of any exclusivity&#151;patent or non-patent&#151;for a drug if certain conditions are met. Conditions for exclusivity include the FDA&#146;s determination that information relating to the use of a new drug in the pediatric population may produce health benefits in that population, FDA making a written request for pediatric studies, and the applicant agreeing to perform, and reporting on, the requested studies within the statutory timeframe. Applications under the BPCA are treated as priority applications, with all of the benefits that designation confers. 

Orphan Drugs 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition&#151;generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the drug and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. The first NDA applicant to receive FDA approval for a particular active ingredient to treat a particular disease with FDA orphan drug designation is entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the United States for that product, for that indication. During the seven-year exclusivity period, the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same disease, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent FDA from approving a different drug for the same disease or condition, or the same drug for a different disease or condition. Among the other benefits of orphan drug designation are tax credits for certain research and a waiver of the NDA application user fee. 

&#160;

Fast Track Designation and Accelerated Approval 

FDA is required to facilitate the development, and expedite the review, of drugs that are intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition for which there is no effective treatment and which demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Under the fast track program, the sponsor of a new drug candidate may request that FDA designate the drug candidate for a specific indication as a fast track drug concurrent with, or after, the filing of the IND for the drug candidate. FDA must determine if the drug candidate qualifies for fast track designation within 60 days of receipt of the sponsor&#146;s request. 

Under the fast track program and FDA&#146;s accelerated approval regulations, FDA may approve a drug for a serious or life-threatening illness that provides meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments based upon a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. 

In clinical trials, a surrogate endpoint is a measurement of laboratory or clinical signs of a disease or condition that substitutes for a direct measurement of how a patient feels, functions or survives. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. A drug candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials to confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to conduct required post-approval studies, or confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies, will allow FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for drug candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by FDA. 

In addition to other benefits such as the ability to use surrogate endpoints and engage in more frequent interactions with FDA, FDA may initiate review of sections of a fast track drug&#146;s NDA before the application is complete. This rolling review is available if the applicant provides, and FDA approves, a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the applicant pays applicable user fees. However, FDA&#146;s time period goal for reviewing an application does not begin until the last section of the NDA is submitted. Additionally, the fast track designation may be withdrawn by FDA if FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process. 

Breakthrough Therapy Designation 

FDA is also required to expedite the development and review of the application for approval of drugs that are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. Under the breakthrough therapy program, the sponsor of a new drug candidate may request that FDA designate the drug candidate for a specific indication as a breakthrough therapy concurrent with, or after, the filing of the IND for the drug candidate. FDA must determine if the drug candidate qualifies for breakthrough therapy designation within 60 days of receipt of the sponsor&#146;s request. 

Disclosure of Clinical Trial Information 

Sponsors of clinical trials of FDA-regulated products, including drugs, are required to register and disclose certain clinical trial information. Information related to the product, patient population, phase of investigation, trial sites and investigators, and other aspects of the clinical trial is then made public as part of the registration. Sponsors are also obligated to discuss the results of their clinical trials after completion. Disclosure of the results of these trials can be delayed until the new product or new indication being studied has been approved. Competitors may use this publicly-available information to gain knowledge regarding the progress of development programs. 

&#160;

Post-Approval Requirements 

Once an NDA is approved, a product will be subject to certain post-approval requirements. For instance, FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs, including standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. Drugs may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. 

AE reporting and submission of periodic reports is required following FDA approval of an NDA. The FDA also may require post-marketing testing, known as Phase 4 testing, REMS and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product, or the FDA may place conditions on an approval that could restrict the distribution or use of the product. In addition, quality-control, drug manufacture, packaging and labeling procedures must continue to conform to cGMPs after approval. Drug manufacturers and certain of their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with FDA and certain state agencies. Registration with the FDA subjects entities to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, during which the agency inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality-control to maintain compliance with cGMPs. Regulatory authorities may withdraw product approvals or request product recalls if a company fails to comply with regulatory standards, if it encounters problems following initial marketing, or if previously unrecognized problems are subsequently discovered. 

The Hatch-Waxman Act 

Orange Book Listing 

In seeking approval for a drug through an NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA each patent whose claims cover the applicant&#146;s product. Upon approval of a drug, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in the FDA&#146;s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Drugs listed in the Orange Book can, in turn, be cited by potential generic competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA). An ANDA provides for marketing of a drug product that has the same active ingredients in the same strengths and dosage form as the listed drug and has been shown through bioequivalence testing to be therapeutically equivalent to the listed drug. Other than the requirement for bioequivalence testing, ANDA applicants are not required to conduct, or submit results of, pre-clinical or clinical tests to prove the safety or effectiveness of their drug product. Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as &#147;generic equivalents&#148; to the listed drug, and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the original listed drug. 

The ANDA applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA&#146;s Orange Book. Specifically, the applicant must certify that (i) the required patent information has not been filed; (ii) the listed patent has expired; (iii) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (iv) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the new product. The ANDA applicant may also elect to submit a section viii statement certifying that its proposed ANDA label does not contain (or carves out) any language regarding the patented method-of-use rather than certify to a listed method-of-use patent. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents, the ANDA application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product&#146;s listed patents, or that such patents are invalid, is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the ANDA applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the ANDA has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA until the earlier of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit, or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant. 

&#160;

The ANDA application also will not be approved until any applicable non-patent exclusivity listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired. 

Exclusivity 

Upon NDA approval of a new chemical entity or NCE, which is a drug that contains no active moiety that has been approved by FDA in any other NDA, that drug receives five years of marketing exclusivity during which FDA cannot receive any ANDA seeking approval of a generic version of that drug. Certain changes to a drug, such as the addition of a new indication to the package insert, are associated with a three-year period of exclusivity during which FDA cannot approval an ANDA for a generic drug that includes the change. An ANDA may be submitted one year before NCE exclusivity expires if a Paragraph IV certification is filed. If there is no listed patent in the Orange Book, there may not be a Paragraph IV certification, and, thus, no ANDA may be filed before the expiration of the exclusivity period. 

Patent Term Extension 

After NDA approval, owners of relevant drug patents may apply for up to a five year patent extension. The allowable patent term extension is calculated as half of the drug&#146;s testing phase (the time between IND application and NDA submission) and all of the review phase (the time between NDA submission and approval up to a maximum of five years). The time can be shortened if FDA determines that the applicant did not pursue approval with due diligence. The total patent term after the extension may not exceed 14 years. For patents that might expire during the application phase, the patent owner may request an interim patent extension. An interim patent extension increases the patent term by one year and may be renewed up to four times. For each interim patent extension granted, the post-approval patent extension is reduced by one year. The director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office must determine that approval of the drug covered by the patent for which a patent extension is being sought is likely. Interim patent extensions are not available for a drug for which an NDA has not been submitted. 

Anti-Kickback, False Claims Laws 

In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain general business and marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback statutes, false claims statutes and other statutes pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally financed healthcare programs. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (PPACA) amended the intent element of the federal statute so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to commit a violation. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. 

Federal false claims laws, including the federal civil False Claims Act, prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. This includes claims made to programs where the federal government reimburses, such as Medicaid, as well as programs where the federal government is a direct purchaser, such as when it purchases off the Federal Supply Schedule. Recently, several 

&#160;

pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn were used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. Additionally, PPACA amended the federal Anti-Kickback Statute such that a violation of that statute can serve as a basis for liability under the federal False Claims Act. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and False Claims Act, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. 

Other federal statutes pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse include the civil monetary penalties statute, which prohibits the offer or payment of remuneration to a Medicaid or Medicare beneficiary that the offerer or payor knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary to order a receive a reimbursable item or service from a particular supplier, and the additional federal criminal statutes created by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits knowingly and willfully executing or attempting to execute a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or obtain by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises any money or property owned by or under the control of any healthcare benefit program in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. 

Other Federal and State Regulatory Requirements 

Pursuant to PPACA, the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services (CMS) has issued a final rule that requires manufacturers of prescription drugs to collect and report information on certain payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. The first reports were due in 2014 and must be submitted on an annual basis. The reported data were posted in searchable form on a public website on September 30, 2014, and will be posted on an annual basis. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties. 

In addition, several states now require prescription drug companies to report certain expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of drug products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in these states. Other states prohibit various other marketing-related activities. Still other states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies and their outcomes. In addition, California, Connecticut, Nevada, and Massachusetts require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. Several additional states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with these laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that do not comply with these state laws face civil penalties. 

We may also be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), and their respective implementing regulations, including the Final Omnibus Rule published on January 25, 2013, imposes specified requirements on certain types of people and entities relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA&#146;s security standards directly applicable to &#147;business associates,&#148; defined as independent contractors or agents of covered entities that create, receive, maintain or transmit protected health information in connection with providing a service for or on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney&#146;s fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, many state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect. 

If our operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including, without limitation, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, exclusion from participation in federal and state 

&#160;

healthcare programs and imprisonment, contractual damages, reputation harm, and diminished profits or future earnings, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. 

Also, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees, future distributors, partners, collaborators or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could result in fines, penalties or prosecution and have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and reputation. 

Coverage and Reimbursement 

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval. Sales of pharmaceutical products depend significantly on the availability of third-party coverage and reimbursement. Third-party payors include government health administrative authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. Although we currently believe that third-party payors will provide coverage and reimbursement for our product candidates, if approved, these third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. We may need to conduct expensive clinical studies to demonstrate the comparative cost-effectiveness of our products. The product candidates that we develop may not be considered cost-effective. It is time consuming and expensive for us to seek coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors. Moreover, a payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. 

The marketability of any product candidates for which we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and we expect will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

Healthcare Reform 

The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. 

By way of example, in March 2010, the PPACA was signed into law, which intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Among the provisions of the PPACA of importance to our potential drug candidates are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13.0% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for a manufacturer&#146;s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; extension of a manufacturer&#146;s Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer&#146;s Medicaid rebate liability; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. There have been judicial and Congressional challenges and amendments to certain aspects of the PPACA, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the PPACA in the future. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. These changes include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013, which will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on customers for our product candidates, if approved, and, accordingly, our financial operations. 

We expect that the PPACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and lower reimbursement, and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government-funded programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our drugs. 

Foreign Regulation 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products to the extent we choose to develop or sell any products outside of the United States. The approval process varies from country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required to obtain FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. 

In the European Union (EU), member states require both regulatory clearances by the national competent authority and a favorable ethics committee opinion prior to the commencement of a clinical trial. Under the EU regulatory systems, marketing authorization applications may be submitted under either a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that 

&#160;

is valid for all EU member states. It is compulsory for medicines produced by certain biotechnological processes. Because our products are produced in that way, we would be subject to the centralized process. Under the centralized procedure, pharmaceutical companies submit a single marketing authorization application to the European Medicines Agency. Once granted by the European Commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all EU member states, as well as the EEA countries Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. By law, a company can only start to market a medicine once it has received a marketing authorization. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 52 employees, of which 12 had M.D. or Ph.D. degrees and 33 were engaged in research and development activities. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Financial Information 

We manage our operations and allocate resources as a single reporting segment. Financial information regarding our operations, assets and liabilities, including our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 and our total assets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, is included in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware in May 2003 as Phenome Systems, Inc. and changed our name to ProNAi Therapeutics, Inc. in April 2004. Shortly thereafter, we merged with SenseGene Therapeutics Inc., a Michigan corporation, with ProNAi Therapeutics, Inc. being the surviving corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 2150 &#150; 885 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6C 3E8, and our telephone number is (604) 558-6536. Our website address is www.pronai.com. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, and you should not consider information on our website to be part of this Annual Report. 

Available Information 

We file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our filings with the SEC are available free of charge on the SEC&#146;s website at www.sec.gov and on our website under the &#147;Investors&#148; tab as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may also read and copy, at SEC prescribed rates, any document we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. You can call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 to obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. 

&#160;

