 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

BUSINESS

General

Staffing 360 Solutions, Inc. (&#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;Staffing 360,&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;) was incorporated in the State of Nevada on December 22, 2009, as Golden Fork Corporation (&#8220;Golden Fork&#8221;), which changed its name to Staffing 360 Solutions, Inc., ticker symbol &#8220;STAF&#8221;, on March 16, 2012. As a rapidly growing public company in the international staffing sector, our high-growth business model is based on finding and acquiring, suitable, mature, profitable, operating, domestic and international staffing companies. Our targeted consolidation model is focused specifically on the accounting and finance, information technology (&#8220;IT&#8221;), engineering, administration and light industrial disciplines.

All amounts in this Annual Report are expressed in thousands, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated.

Business Model and Acquisitions

We are a high-growth international staffing company engaged in the acquisition of United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;) and United Kingdom (&#8220;U.K.&#8221;) based staffing companies. As part of our consolidation model, we pursue a broad spectrum of staffing companies supporting primarily the accounting and finance, IT, engineering, administration and light industrial disciplines. Our typical acquisition model is based on paying consideration in the form of cash, stock, earn-outs and/or promissory notes. In furthering our business model, the Company is regularly in discussions and negotiations with various suitable, mature acquisition targets. To date, we have completed six acquisitions that are more fully described in &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221;

Operating History

The Company has been successful in growing and expanding through multiple acquisitions and organic revenue growth. Our business plan for continued growth through acquisitions is subject to certain inherent risks, including accessing capital resources, potential cost overruns and possible rejection of our business model and/or sales methods. Therefore, we provide no assurance that the Company will be successful in carrying out our business plan. We continue to pursue additional debt and equity financing to fund our business plan. We have no assurance that future financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.

Industry Background

The staffing industry is divided into three major segments: temporary help services, professional employer organizations (&#8220;PEOs&#8221;) and placement agencies. Temporary help services provide workers for limited periods, often to substitute for absent permanent workers or to help during periods of peak demand. These workers, who are employees of the temporary help agency, will generally fill clerical, technical, or industrial positions. PEOs, sometimes referred to as employee leasing agencies, contract to provide workers to customers for specific functions, often related to human resource management. In many cases, customers&#8217; employees are hired by a PEO and then contracted back to the customer. Placement agencies, sometimes referred to as executive recruiters or headhunters, find workers to fill permanent positions at customer companies. These agencies may specialize in placing senior managers, mid-level managers, technical workers, or clerical and other support workers.

The Company considers itself a temporary staffing company within the broader staffing industry. However, the Company provides permanent placements at the request of existing clients and consulting services such as risk audits, due diligence for mergers and acquisition targets, and internal audit assessments.

Staffing companies identify potential candidates through online advertising and referrals, and interview, test and counsel workers before sending them to the customer for approval. Pre-employment screening can include skills assessment, drug tests and criminal background checks. The personnel staffing industry has been radically changed by the internet. Many employers list available positions with one or several internet personnel sites like www.monster.com or www.careerbuilder.com, and on their own sites. Personnel agencies operate their own sites and often still work as intermediaries by helping employers accurately describe job openings and by screening candidates who submit applications.

Job growth drives demand for the personnel staffing industry. The profitability of individual companies depends on good marketing and availability of qualified employees. Large companies enjoy economies of scale in marketing and back-office operations. Small companies can compete successfully by specializing in an industry or a job function.

To a great extent, clients follow the seasonal retail cycles but precede them by two to three months. There are two distinct &#8220;peak&#8221; seasons: August to October, preceding the Holiday season; April to June, preceding the summer season. Both provide extended spikes to the baseline revenue ave rage of companies in the staffing sector. 

Major end-use customers include businesses from a wide range of industries. Marketing involves direct sales presentations, referrals from existing clients and advertising. Agencies compete both for customers and workers. Depending on market supply and demand at any given time, agencies may allocate more resources either to finding potential employers or potential workers. Permanent placement agencies work either on a retainer or a contingency basis. Clients may retain an agency for a specific job search or on contract for a specific period. Temporary help services charge customers a fixed price per hour or a standard markup on prevailing hourly rates.

For many staffing companies, demand is lower late in the fourth calendar quarter and early in the first calendar quarter, partly because of holidays, and higher during the rest of the year. Staffing companies may have high receivables from customers. Temp agencies and PEOs must manage a high cash flow because they funnel payroll payments from employers. Cash flow imbalances also occur because agencies must pay workers even though they haven't been paid by customers.

The revenue of personnel agencies depends on the number of jobs they fill, which in turn depends on economic growth. During economic slowdowns, many client companies stop hiring altogether. Internet employment sites expand a company&#8217;s ability to find workers without the help of traditional agencies. Personnel agencies often work as intermediaries, helping employers accurately describe job openings and screen candidates. Increasing the use of sophisticated, automated job description and candidate screening tools could make many traditional functions of personnel agencies obsolete. Free social networking sites such as LinkedIn and Facebook are also becoming a common way for recruiters and employees to connect without the assistance of a staffing agency.

To avoid large placement agency fees, big companies may use in-house personnel staff, current employee referrals, or human resources consulting companies to find and hire new personnel. Because placement agencies typically charge a fee based on a percentage of the first year's salary of a new worker, companies with many jobs to fill have a large financial incentive to avoid agencies.

Many personnel agencies are small and may depend heavily on a few big customers for a large portion of revenue. Large customers may lead to increased revenue, but also expose agencies to higher risks. When major accounts experience financial hardships, and have less need for temporary employment services, agencies stand to lose large portions of revenue.

The loss of a staff member who handles a large volume of business may result in a large loss of revenue for an agency. Individual staff members, rather than the agency itself, usually develop strong relationships with customers. Staff members who move to another agency are often able to move customers with them.

Some of the best opportunities for temporary employment are in industries traditionally active in seasonal cycles, such as manufacturing, construction, wholesale and retail. However, seasonal demand for workers creates cash flow fluctuations throughout the year. 

Staffing companies are regulated by the U.S. Department of Labor (&#8220;DOL&#8221;) and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (&#8220;EEOC&#8221;), and often by state authorities. At issue is the relationship between the agency and the temporary employees, or employee candidates. Many federal anti-discrimination rules regulate the type of information that employment firms can request from candidates or provide to customers about candidates. PEOs are often considered co-employers along with the client, but the PEO is responsible for employee wages, taxes and benefits. State regulation aims to ensure that PEOs provide the benefits they promise to workers.

Trends in the Staffing Business

Start-up costs for a personnel agency are very low. Individual offices can be profitable, but consolidation is driven mainly by the opportunity for large agencies to develop national relationships with big customers. Some agencies expand by starting new offices in promising markets, but most prefer to buy existing independent offices with proven staff and an existing customer roster.

Temporary workers are becoming such a large factor at some companies that personnel agency staff sometimes work at the customer's site to recruit, train, and manage. The Company has a number of on-sight relationships with its customers. Agencies try to match the best qualified employees for the customer's needs, but often provide additional training specific to that company, such as instruction in the use of proprietary software.

Some personnel consulting firms and human resource departments are increasingly using psychological tests to evaluate potential job candidates. Psychological, or liability, testing has gained popularity due to fraud scandals. In addition to stiffer background checks, headhunters check the credit of prospective employees.

We believe the trends of outsourcing entire departments and dependence on temporary and leased workers will expand opportunities for personnel agencies. Taking advantage of their expertise in assessing worker capabilities, some agencies manage clients&#8217; entire human resource functions. Human resources outsourcing (&#8220;HRO&#8221;) may include management of payroll, tax filings, and benefit administration services. HRO may also include recruitment process outsourcing (&#8220;RPO&#8221;), whereby an agency manages all recruitment activities for a client. 

New online technology is improving staffing efficiency. For example, some online applications coordinate workflow for staffing agencies, their clients and temporary workers, and allow agencies and customers to share work order requests, submit and track candidates, approve timesheets and expenses, and run reports. Interaction between candidates and potential employers is increasingly being handled online.

Initially viewed as rivals, some Internet job-search companies and traditional employment agencies are now collaborating. While some Internet sites do not allow agencies to use their services to post jobs or look through resumes, others find that agencies are their biggest customers, earning the sites a large percentage of their revenue. Some staffing companies contract to help client employers find workers online.

Competition

The Company&#8217;s staffing divisions face competition in attracting clients as well as temporary candidates. The staffing industry is highly competitive, with a number of firms offering services similar to those provided by the Company, on a national, regional or local basis. In many areas, the local companies are the strongest competitors. The most significant competitive factors in the staffing business are price and reliability of service. The Company believes its competitive advantage is from its experience in niche markets, and commitment to the specialized employment market, along with its growing global presence.

The staffing industry is characterized by a large number of competing companies in a fragmented sector. Major competitors also exist across the sector, but as the industry affords low barriers to entry, new entrants are constantly introduced to the marketplace.

The top layer of competitors includes large corporate staffing and employment companies which have yearly revenue of $75 million or more. The next (middle) layer of the competition consists of medium-sized entities with yearly revenue of $10 million or more. The largest portion of the marketplace is the bottom rung of this competitive landscape consisting of small individual-sized or family-run operations. As barriers to entry are low, sole proprietors, partnerships and small entities routinely enter the industry.

Employees

The Company employs approximately 180 employees as part of our internal operations. Additionally, the Company employs more than 4,000 individuals that are placed directly with our clients through our various operating subsidiaries.

