 Item 1. BUSINESS 

General 

&#160; S&#38;T Bancorp, Inc., or S&#38;T (also referred to below as &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;), including, on a consolidated basis with our subsidiaries where appropriate, was incorporated on March 17, 1983 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a bank holding company and has three wholly owned subsidiaries, S&#38;T Bank, 9th Street Holdings, Inc. and STBA Capital Trust I. We also own a 50 percent interest in Commonwealth Trust Credit Life Insurance Company, or CTCLIC. We are registered as a financial holding company with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Reserve Board, under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the BHCA. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $6.3 billion in assets, $5.1 billion in loans, $4.9 billion in deposits and $792.2 million in shareholders&#8217; equity. 

S&#38;T Bank is a full service bank with its main office at 800 Philadelphia Street, Indiana, Pennsylvania, providing services to its customers through locations in Pennsylvania, Ohio and New York. On October 29, 2014 we entered into an agreement to acquire Integrity Bancshares, Inc., and the transaction was completed on March 4, 2015. The transaction was valued at 

$172.0 million and added total assets of $980.8 million, including $788.7 million in loans, $115.9 million in goodwill, and $722.3 million in deposits. Integrity Bank was subsequently merged into S&#38;T Bank on May 8, 2015. S&#38;T Bank operates under the name "Integrity Bank - A division of S&#38;T Bank" in south-central Pennsylvania. S&#38;T Bank deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, to the maximum extent provided by law. 

S&#38;T Bank has three wholly owned operating subsidiaries: S&#38;T Insurance Group, LLC, S&#38;T Bancholdings, Inc. and Stewart Capital Advisors, LLC. S&#38;T Insurance Group, LLC, through its subsidiaries, offers a variety of insurance products. S&#38;T Bancholdings, Inc. is an investment company. Stewart Capital Advisors, LLC, is a registered investment advisor that manages private investment accounts for individuals and institutions and advises the Stewart Capital Mid Cap Fund. 

We have three reportable operating segments including Community Banking, Wealth Management and Insurance. Our Community Banking segment offers services which include accepting time and demand deposits and originating commercial and consumer loans. The Wealth Management segment offers brokerage services, serves as executor and trustee under wills and deeds, guardian and custodian of employee benefits and other trust services, as well as is a registered investment advisor that manages private investment accounts for individuals and institutions. Total Wealth Management assets under management and administration were $2.1 billion at December 31, 2015. The Insurance segment includes a full-service insurance agency offering commercial property and casualty insurance, group life and health coverage, employee benefit solutions and personal insurance lines. 

Refer to the financial statements and Part II, Item 8, Note 25 of this Form 10-K for further details pertaining to our operating segments. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 1,067 full-time equivalent employees. 

Access to United States Securities and Exchange Commission Filings 

All of our reports filed electronically with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, or the Report, our prior annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and our annual proxy statements, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible at no cost on our website at www.stbancorp.com under Financial Information, SEC Filings. These filings are also accessible on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Benefits Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Complaints Regarding Accounting, Internal Accounting Controls or Auditing Matters Policy, or the Whistleblower Policy, the Code of Conduct for the CEO and CFO, the General Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Shareholder Communications Policy are also available at www.stbancorp.com under Corporate Governance. 

Supervision and Regulation 

General 

S&#38;T and S&#38;T Bank are each extensively regulated under federal and state law. The following describes certain aspects of that regulation and does not purport to be a complete description of all regulations that affect S&#38;T and S&#38;T Bank or all aspects of any regulation discussed here. 

Item 1. BUSINESS -- continued 

To the extent statutory or regulatory provisions are described, the description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the banking industry are frequently raised in Congress, in state legislatures and before the various bank regulatory agencies. The likelihood and timing of any changes and the impact such changes might have on S&#38;T or S&#38;T Bank is impossible to determine with any certainty. 

Any change in applicable laws or regulations, or in the way such laws or regulations are interpreted by regulatory agencies or courts, may have a material impact on our business, operations and earnings. 

S&#38;T 

We are a bank holding company subject to regulation under the BHCA and the examination and reporting requirements of the Federal Reserve Board. Under the BHCA, a bank holding company may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than five percent of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any additional bank, or merge or consolidate with another bank holding company, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. We have maintained a passive ownership position in Allegheny Valley Bancorp, Inc. (14.2 percent) pursuant to approval from the Federal Reserve Board. 

As a bank holding company, we are expected under statutory and regulatory provisions to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to our subsidiary bank. A bank holding company is also expected to commit resources, including capital and other funds, to support its subsidiary bank. 

We elected to become a financial holding company under the BHCA in 2001 and thereby engage in a broader range of financial activities than are permissible for traditional bank holding companies. In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, we must remain &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well-managed&#8221; and the depository institutions controlled by us must remain &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;well-managed&#8221; (as defined in federal law) and have at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; Community Reinvestment Act, or CRA, rating. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 24 Regulatory Matters, of this Report for information concerning the current capital ratios of S&#38;T and S&#38;T Bank. No prior regulatory approval is required for a financial holding company with total consolidated assets less than $50 billion to acquire a company, other than a bank or savings association, engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve Board, unless the total consolidated assets to be acquired exceed $10 billion. The BHCA identifies several activities as &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; including, among others, securities underwriting; dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and sales agency; investment advisory activities; merchant banking activities and activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be closely related to banking. Banks may also engage in, subject to limitations on investment, activities that are financial in nature, other than insurance underwriting, insurance company portfolio investment, real estate development and real estate investment, through a financial subsidiary of the bank, if the bank is &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;well-managed&#8221; and has at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; CRA rating. 

If S&#38;T or S&#38;T Bank ceases to be &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well-managed,&#8221; we will not be in compliance with the requirements of the BHCA regarding financial holding companies or requirements regarding the operation of financial subsidiaries by insured banks. 

If a financial holding company is notified by the Federal Reserve Board of such a change in the ratings of any of its subsidiary banks, it must take certain corrective actions within specified time frames. Furthermore, if S&#38;T Bank was to receive a CRA rating of less than &#8220;satisfactory,&#8221; then we would be prohibited from engaging in certain new activities or acquiring companies engaged in certain financial activities until the rating is raised to &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; or better. 

We are presently engaged in nonbanking activities through the following five entities: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

9th Street Holdings, Inc. was formed in June 1988 to hold and manage a group of investments previously owned by S&#38;T Bank and to give us additional latitude to purchase other investments. 

&#8226; 

S&#38;T Bancholdings, Inc. was formed in August 2002 to hold and manage a group of investments previously owned by S&#38;T Bank and to give us additional latitude to purchase other investments. 

&#8226; 

CTCLIC is a joint venture with another financial institution, acting as a reinsurer of credit life, accident and health insurance policies sold by S&#38;T Bank and the other institution. S&#38;T Bank and the other institution each have ownership interests of 50 percent in CTCLIC. 

&#8226; 

S&#38;T Insurance Group, LLC distributes life insurance and long-term disability income insurance products. During 2001, S&#38;T Insurance Group, LLC and Attorneys Abstract Company, Inc. entered into an agreement to form S&#38;T Settlement Services, LLC, or STSS, with respective ownership interests of 55 percent and 45 percent. STSS is a title insurance agency servicing commercial customers. During 2002, S&#38;T Insurance Group, LLC expanded into the property and casualty insurance business with the acquisition of S&#38;T-Evergreen Insurance, LLC. 

&#8226; 

Stewart Capital Advisors, LLC was formed in August 2005 and is a registered investment advisor that manages private investment accounts for individuals and institutions and advises the Stewart Capital Mid Cap Fund. 

Item 1. BUSINESS -- continued 

S&#38;T Bank 

As a Pennsylvania-chartered, FDIC-insured commercial bank, S&#38;T Bank is subject to the supervision and regulation of the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities, or PADBS, and the FDIC. We are also subject to various requirements and restrictions under federal and state law, including requirements to maintain reserves against deposits, restrictions on the types, amount and terms and conditions of loans that may be granted and limits on the types of other activities in which S&#38;T Bank may engage and the investments it may make. 

In addition, S&#38;T Bank is subject to affiliate transaction rules in Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act as implemented by the Federal Reserve's Regulation W, that limit the amount of transactions between itself and S&#38;T or S&#38;T&#8217;s nonbank subsidiaries. Under these provisions, transactions between a bank and its parent company or any single nonbank affiliate generally are limited to 10 percent of the bank subsidiary&#8217;s capital and surplus, and with respect to all transactions with affiliates, are limited to 20 percent of the bank subsidiary&#8217;s capital and surplus. Loans and extensions of credit from a bank to an affiliate generally are required to be secured by eligible collateral in specified amounts. The Dodd-Frank Act Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, expands the affiliate transaction rules to broaden the definition of affiliate and to apply to securities borrowing or lending, repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements and derivatives activities that we may have with an affiliate, as well as to strengthen collateral requirements and limit Federal Reserve exemptive authority. Also, the definition of &#8220;extension of credit&#8221; for transactions with executive officers, directors and principal shareholders was expanded to include credit exposure arising from a derivative transaction, a repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement and a securities lending or borrowing transaction. These expansions became effective July 21, 2012. These provisions have not had a material effect on S&#38;T or S&#38;T Bank. 

Insurance of Accounts; Depositor Preference 

The deposits of S&#38;T Bank are insured up to applicable limits per insured depositor by the FDIC. The Dodd-Frank Act codified FDIC deposit insurance coverage per separately insured depositor for all account types at $250,000. 

As an FDIC-insured bank, S&#38;T Bank is subject to FDIC insurance assessments, which are imposed based upon the risk the institution poses to the Deposit Insurance Fund, or DIF. Under this assessment system, risk is defined and measured using an institution&#8217;s supervisory ratings with other risk measures, including financial ratios. The current total base assessment rates on an annualized basis range from 2.5 basis points for certain &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;well-managed&#8221; banks, with the highest ratings, to 45 basis points for institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. The FDIC may raise or lower these assessment rates on a quarterly basis based on various factors to achieve a reserve ratio, which the Dodd-Frank Act has mandated to be no less than 1.35 percent of insured deposits. 

In February 2011, the FDIC Board of Directors adopted a final rule, Deposit Insurance Assessment Base, Assessment Rate Adjustments, Dividends, Assessment Rates and Large Bank Pricing Methodology. This final rule redefined the deposit insurance assessment base to equal average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, altered assessment rates, implemented the Dodd-Frank Act&#8217;s DIF dividend provisions and revised the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions (those with at least $10.0 billion in total assets). Many of the changes were made as a result of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that were intended to shift more of the cost of raising the reserve ratio from institutions with less than $10.0 billion in assets (such as S&#38;T Bank) to the larger banks. Except for the future assessment rate schedules, all changes went into effect April 1, 2011 and has resulted in lower FDIC expense. In addition to DIF assessments, the FDIC makes a special assessment to fund the repayment of debt obligations of the Financing Corporation, or FICO. FICO is a government-sponsored entity that was formed to borrow the money necessary to carry out the closing and ultimate disposition of failed thrift institutions by the Resolution Trust Corporation in the 1990s. The FICO assessment rate for the first quarter of 2016 is 0.580 basis points on an annualized basis. 

Under federal law, deposits and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against insured depository institutions are afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including federal funds and letters of credit, in the liquidation or other resolution of such an institution by a receiver. Such priority creditors would include the FDIC. 

Capital 

The Federal Reserve Board and FDIC have issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital rules applicable to banking organizations they supervise. At December 31, 2015, both S&#38;T and S&#38;T Bank met the applicable regulatory capital requirements. S&#38;T&#8217;s leverage ratio was 8.96 percent, common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital was 9.77 percent, Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 10.15 percent and total risk-based capital ratio was 11.60 percent. S&#38;T Bank&#8217;s leverage ratio was 8.43 percent, common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital was 9.55 percent, Tier 1 risk-based capital was 9.55 percent and total risk-based capital was 11.00 percent. 

Item 1. BUSINESS -- continued 

In July 2013 the federal banking agencies issued a final rule to implement Basel III (which were agreements reached in July 2010 by the international oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to require more and higher-quality capital) as well as the minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule establishes a comprehensive capital framework, and went into effect on January 1, 2015, for smaller banking organizations such as S&#38;T and S&#38;T Bank. It introduces a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio requirement of 4.50 percent, increases the minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio to 6.00 percent, and requires a leverage ratio of 4.00 percent for all banks. Common equity Tier 1 capital consists of common stock instruments that meet the eligibility criteria in the rule, retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income and common equity Tier 1 minority interest. The rule also requires a banking organization to maintain a capital conservation buffer composed of common equity Tier 1 capital in an amount greater than 2.50 percent of total risk-weighted assets beginning in 2019. The capital conservation buffer will be phased in beginning in 2016, at 25 percent, increasing to 50 percent in 2017, 75 percent in 2018 and 100 percent in 2019 and beyond. As a result, starting in 2019, a banking organization must maintain a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio greater than 7.00 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio greater than 8.50 percent and a Total risk-based capital ratio greater than 10.50 percent; otherwise, it will be subject to restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. By 2019, when the new rule is fully phased in, the minimum capital requirements plus the capital conservation buffer will exceed the regulatory capital ratios required for an insured depository institution to be well-capitalized under prompt corrective action law, described below. 

The new regulatory capital rule also revises the calculation of risk-weighted assets. It includes a new framework under which the risk weight will increase for most credit exposures that are 90 days or more past due or on nonaccrual, high-volatility commercial real estate loans and certain equity exposures. It also includes changes to the credit conversion factors of off-balance sheet items, such as the unused portion of a loan commitment. 

Federal regulators periodically propose amendments to the regulatory capital rules and the related regulatory framework and consider changes to the capital standards that could significantly increase the amount of capital needed to meet applicable standards. The timing of adoption, ultimate form and effect of any such proposed amendments cannot be predicted. 

Payment of Dividends 

S&#38;T is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. A substantial portion of our revenues consist of dividend payments we receive from S&#38;T Bank. S&#38;T Bank, in turn, is subject to federal and state laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends it can pay to S&#38;T. In addition, both S&#38;T and S&#38;T Bank are subject to various general regulatory policies relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only if (i) the organization&#8217;s net income available to common shareholders over the past year has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and (ii) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Thus, under certain circumstances based upon our financial condition, our ability to declare and pay quarterly dividends may require consultation with the Federal Reserve Board and may be prohibited by applicable Federal Reserve Board guidance. 

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations 

There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on bank holding companies such as us and our depository institution subsidiary by federal law and regulatory policy. These obligations and restrictions are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to the FDIC&#8217;s deposit insurance fund in the event an insured depository institution becomes in danger of default or is in default. Under current federal law, for example, the federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take prompt corrective action to resolve problems of insured depository institutions. The extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in question is &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized,&#8221; as defined by the law. As of December 31, 2015, S&#38;T Bank was classified as &#8220;well-capitalized.&#8221; New definitions of these categories, as set forth in the federal banking agencies&#8217; final rule to implement Basel III and the minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, became effective as of January 1, 2015. To be well-capitalized, an insured depository institution must have a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.50 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.00 percent, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.00 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 5.00 percent. To be adequately capitalized, an insured depository institution must have a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4.50 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.00 percent, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.00 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 4.00 percent. The classification of depository institutions is primarily for the purpose of applying the federal banking agencies&#8217; prompt corrective action provisions and is not intended to be and should not be interpreted as a representation of overall financial condition or prospects of any financial institution. 

The federal banking agencies&#8217; prompt corrective action powers (which increase depending upon the degree to which an institution is undercapitalized) can include, among other things, requiring an insured depository institution to adopt a capital 

Item 1. BUSINESS -- continued 

restoration plan which cannot be approved unless guaranteed by the institution&#8217;s parent company; placing limits on asset growth and restrictions on activities, including restrictions on transactions with affiliates; restricting the interest rates the institution may pay on deposits; prohibiting the payment of principal or interest on subordinated debt; prohibiting the holding company from making capital distributions without prior regulatory approval; and, ultimately, appointing a receiver for the institution. For example, only a &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. 

The federal banking agencies have also adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, fees and compensation and benefits. In general, the guidelines require appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage specified risks and exposures. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and characterize compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. In addition, the agencies have adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not in compliance with any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; institution is subject under the prompt corrective action provisions described above. 

Regulatory Enforcement Authority 

The enforcement powers available to federal banking agencies are substantial and include, among other things and in addition to other powers described herein, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banks and bank holding companies and &#8220;institution affiliated parties,&#8221; as defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations, as well as engagement in unsafe or unsound practices. Other actions or inactions may provide the basis for enforcement action, including misleading or untimely reports filed with regulatory authorities. 

At the state level, the PADBS also has broad enforcement powers over S&#38;T Bank, including the power to impose fines and other penalties and to appoint a conservator or receiver. 

Interstate Banking and Branching 

The BHCA currently permits bank holding companies from any state to acquire banks and bank holding companies located in any other state, subject to certain conditions, including certain nationwide and state-imposed deposit concentration limits. In addition, because of changes to law made by the Dodd-Frank Act, S&#38;T Bank may now establish de novo branches in any state to the same extent that a bank chartered in that state could establish a branch. 

Community Reinvestment, Fair Lending and Consumer Protection Laws 

In connection with its lending activities, S&#38;T Bank is subject to a number of state and federal laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. The federal laws include, among others, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the CRA. In addition, rules of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, pursuant to federal law require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent the disclosure of certain personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. 

The CRA requires the appropriate federal banking agency, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess the bank&#8217;s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. Furthermore, such assessment is required of any bank that has applied, among other things, to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an insured depository institution, or to open or relocate a branch office. In the case of a bank holding company (including a financial holding company) applying for approval to acquire a bank or bank holding company, the Federal Reserve Board will assess the record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant bank holding company in considering the application. Under the CRA, institutions are assigned a rating of &#8220;outstanding,&#8221; &#8220;satisfactory,&#8221; &#8220;needs to improve&#8221; or &#8220;unsatisfactory.&#8221; S&#38;T Bank was rated &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent CRA evaluation. 

Fair lending laws prohibit discrimination in the provision of banking services, and the enforcement of these laws has been a focus for bank regulators. Fair lending laws included the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, which outlaw discrimination in credit transactions and residential real estate on the basis of prohibited factors including, among others, race, color, national origin, sex and religion. A lender may be liable for policies that result in a disparate treatment of or have a disparate impact on a protected class of applicants or borrowers. If a pattern or practice of lending discrimination is alleged by a regulator, then that agency may refer the matter to the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, for investigation. In December of 2012, the DOJ and CFPB entered into a Memorandum of Understanding under which the agencies have agreed to share 

Item 1. BUSINESS -- continued 

information, coordinate investigations and have generally committed to strengthen their coordination efforts. S&#38;T Bank is required to have a fair lending program that is of sufficient scope to monitor the inherent fair lending risk of the institution and that appropriately remediates issues which are identified. 

Anti-Money Laundering Rules 

S&#38;T Bank is subject to the Bank Secrecy Act, its implementing regulations and other anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the USA Patriot Act of 2001. Among other things, these laws and regulations require S&#38;T Bank to take steps to prevent the bank from being used to facilitate the flow of illegal or illicit money, to report large currency transactions and to file suspicious activity reports. S&#38;T Bank is also required to develop and implement a comprehensive anti-money laundering compliance program. Banks must also have in place appropriate &#8220;know your customer&#8221; policies and procedures. Violations of these requirements can result in substantial civil and criminal sanctions. In addition, provisions of the USA Patriot Act of 2001 require the federal financial institution regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution&#8217;s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and bank holding company acquisitions. 

Government Actions and Legislation 

The Dodd-Frank Act is significantly changing the current bank regulatory structure and affecting the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies, including S&#38;T and S&#38;T Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act contains a number of provisions intended to strengthen capital. Refer to Capital within Part I, Item 1 for additional information. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Act depend on the actions of regulatory agencies. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions that expand the insurance assessment base and increase the scope of deposit insurance coverage. 

Among other provisions, the SEC has enacted rules, required by the Dodd-Frank Act, giving stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called &#8220;golden parachute&#8221; payments and allowing certain stockholders to nominate their own candidates for election as directors using a company&#8217;s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the federal financial institution regulatory agencies to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation being paid to financial institution executives. In addition, in December of 2013, federal regulators adopted final regulations regarding the so-called Volcker Rule established in the Dodd-Frank Act. The Volcker Rule generally prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring certain unregistered investment companies (generally covering hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to certain exemptions). The rules are complex and the conformance date for most of the prohibitions was July 21, 2015. However, S&#38;T does not currently anticipate that they will have a material effect on S&#38;T Bank or its affiliates, because we do not engage in the prohibited activities. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also created the CFPB, that took over rulemaking responsibility on July 21, 2011 for the principal federal consumer financial protection laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, or RESPA, and the Truth in Savings Act, among others. Institutions that have assets of $10.0 billion or less, such as S&#38;T Bank, will continue to be supervised in this area by their state and primary federal regulators (in the case of S&#38;T Bank, the FDIC). The Act also gives the CFPB expanded data collection powers for fair lending purposes for both small business and mortgage loans, as well as expanded authority to prevent unfair, deceptive and abusive practices. The consumer complaint function also has been consolidated into the CFPB with respect to the institutions it supervises. The CFPB established an Office of Community Banks and Credit Unions, with a mission to ensure that the CFPB incorporates the perspectives of small depository institutions into the policy-making process, communicates relevant policy initiatives to community banks and credit unions, and works with community banks and credit unions to identify potential areas for regulatory simplification. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act required the Federal Reserve Board to adopt a rule addressing interchange fees applicable to debit card transactions. This rule, Regulation II, effective October 1, 2011, does not apply to a bank that, together with its affiliates, has less than $10.0 billion in assets. 

In January 2013, the CFPB issued a series of final rules related to mortgage loan origination and mortgage loan servicing. In particular, on January 10, 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule implementing the ability-to-repay and qualified mortgage (QM) provisions of the Truth in Lending Act, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act (the &#8220;QM Rule&#8221;). The ability-to-repay provision requires creditors to make reasonable, good-faith determinations that borrowers are able to repay their mortgage loans before extending the credit based on a number of factors and consideration of financial information about the borrower from reasonably reliable third-party documents. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and the QM Rule, loans meeting the definition of &#8220;qualified mortgage&#8221; are entitled to a presumption that the lender satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. The presumption is a conclusive presumption/safe harbor for prime loans meeting the QM requirements, and a rebuttable presumption for higher-priced/subprime loans meeting the QM requirements. The definition of a &#8220;qualified mortgage&#8221; incorporates the statutory 

Item 1. BUSINESS -- continued 

requirements, such as not allowing negative amortization or terms longer than 30 years. The QM Rule also adds an explicit maximum 43 percent debt-to-income ratio for borrowers if the loan is to meet the QM definition, though some mortgages that meet government-sponsored enterprise, or GSE, Federal Housing Administration, or FHA, and Veterans Affairs, or VA, underwriting guidelines may, for a period not to exceed seven years, meet the QM definition without being subject to the 43 percent debt-to-income limits. The QM Rule became effective on January 10, 2014. These rules did not have a material impact on our mortgage business. 

In November 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule implementing the Dodd-Frank Act requirement to establish integrated disclosures in connection with mortgage origination, which incorporates disclosure requirements under RESPA and TILA. The requirements of the final rule apply to all covered mortgage transactions for which S&#38;T Bank receives a consumer application on or after October 3, 2015. CFPB issued a final rule regarding the integrated disclosures in December 2013, and the disclosure requirement became effective in October 2015. These rules did not have a material impact on our mortgage business. 

The federal agencies responsible for implementing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have issued a substantial number of rules. More rules will be issued. Not all of the Dodd-Frank Act provisions and their implementing regulations apply to banks the size of S&#38;T Bank. Federal and state regulatory agencies consistently propose and adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot assess the ultimate impact of the Act on S&#38;T or S&#38;T Bank at this time, including the extent to which it could increase costs or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Nor can we predict the impact or substance of other future legislation or regulation. However, it is expected that they, at a minimum, will increase our operating and compliance costs. 

&#32;We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation, or the application thereof, although enactment of any proposed legislation could affect how S&#38;T and S&#38;T Bank operate and could significantly increase costs, impede the efficiency of internal business processes, or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Competition 

S&#38;T Bank competes with other local, regional and national financial services providers, such as other financial holding companies, commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, finance companies and brokerage and insurance firms, including competitors that provide their products and services online. Some of our competitors are not subject to the same level of regulation and oversight that is required of banks and bank holding companies, and are thus able to operate under lower cost structures. 

Changes in bank regulation, such as changes in the products and services banks can offer and permitted involvement in non-banking activities by bank holding companies, as well as bank mergers and acquisitions, can affect our ability to compete with other financial services providers. Our ability to do so will depend upon how successfully we can respond to the evolving competitive, regulatory, technological and demographic developments affecting our operations. 

Our market area includes Pennsylvania and the contiguous states of Ohio, West Virginia, New York and Maryland. The majority of our commercial and consumer loans are made to businesses and individuals in this market area resulting in a geographic concentration. Our market area has a high density of financial institutions, some of which are significantly larger institutions with greater financial resources than us, and many of which are our competitors to varying degrees. Our competition for loans comes principally from commercial banks, savings associations, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and other financial service companies. Our most direct competition for deposits has historically come from commercial banks, savings banks and credit unions. We face additional competition for deposits from non-depository competitors such as the mutual fund industry, securities and brokerage firms and insurance companies. Because larger competitors have advantages in attracting business from larger corporations, we do not generally attempt to compete for that business. Instead, we concentrate our efforts on attracting the business of individuals, and small and medium-size businesses. We consider our competitive advantages to be customer service and responsiveness to customer needs, the convenience of banking offices and hours, access to electronic banking services and the availability and pricing of our products and services. We emphasize personalized banking and the advantage of local decision-making in our banking business. 

The financial services industry is likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services on a more efficient and convenient basis. Technological innovations have lowered traditional barriers to entry and enabled many companies to compete in financial services markets. Many customers now expect a choice of banking options for the delivery of services, including traditional banking offices, telephone, internet, mobile, ATMs, self-service branches, and/or in-store branches. These delivery channels are offered by traditional banks and savings associations, as well as credit unions, brokerage firms, asset management groups, finance and insurance companies, internet-based companies, and mortgage banking firms. 

