 ITEM 1.&#151; BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

ModusLink Global Solutions, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, &#147;ModusLink Global Solutions&#148; or the &#147;Company&#148; or &#147;Registrant&#148;), through its wholly owned subsidiaries, ModusLink Corporation (&#147;ModusLink&#148;) and ModusLink PTS, Inc. (&#147;ModusLink PTS&#148;), provides comprehensive supply chain and logistics services (the &#147;Supply Chain Business&#148;) that are designed to improve clients&#146; revenue, cost, sustainability and customer experience. ModusLink Global Solutions provides services to leading companies in the consumer electronics, communications, computing, software, storage and retail industries. The Company&#146;s operations are supported by a global footprint, which includes more than 20 sites across North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. 

The Company previously operated under the names CMGI, Inc. and CMG Information Services, Inc. and was incorporated in Delaware in 1986. The Company&#146;s address is 1601 Trapelo Road, Suite 170, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451. 

Services 

The Supply Chain Business operation&#146;s revenue primarily comes from the sale of supply chain management solutions to its clients. ModusLink&#146;s core solutions are material planning and factory supply; value-added warehousing and distribution; aftermarket services including product returns management and product repair and recovery; and e-Business including e-commerce, contact center, entitlement management and financial management. In addition, ModusLink is a Microsoft Authorized Replicator, further enhancing its position as a valued supply chain services provider to leading technology hardware original equipment manufacturers (&#147;OEMs&#148;). 

The Supply Chain Business operation&#146;s core solutions include: 

Material Planning and Factory Supply &#151;ModusLink sources inbound materials, delivers on-time and maintains high quality standards based on its local supplier relationships. ModusLink performs kitting and assembly of packaging materials and accessories while managing logistics and delivery schedules into multiple manufacturing sites or partners for just-in-time manufacturing. Solutions are designed to reduce the complexity, lead times and costs of inbound materials, supply chain procurement, and factory feed processes. 

Value-Added Warehousing and Distribution &#151;ModusLink&#146;s capabilities are designed for flexibility, reliability and speed, to support clients&#146; distribution, retail and end user fulfillment. Services include order management, pick, pack, and ship, retail connectivity, demand planning and integrated transportation management services, which are supported by a global technology infrastructure. 

ModusLink&#146;s postponement and configuration solutions are based on a technology-driven planning and execution process. By analyzing operating variables and supply chain costs, ModusLink can defer product configuration and packaging of a client&#146;s product until the optimal time and at the most strategic location. Client programs can leverage any combination of ModusLink&#146;s fulfillment sites around the globe, including those near manufacturing sites or close to the consumer. 

ModusLink provides a complete solution for the physical programming of digital content &#150; such as software, firmware, upgrades or promotional material &#150; onto numerous types of flash media, including SD and MicroSD cards, USB drives, navigation systems, smartphones and tablets. 

&#160; 

Aftermarket Services 

Product Returns Management&#151; ModusLink simplifies the returns process for retailers and manufacturers that want to improve service parts management and the value of returned assets. ModusLink manages the end-to-end process including receipt of goods, managing the Returns Management Authorization (RMA) process, sorting, triage, credit processing and ultimate disposition of the returned product. 

Product Repair and Recovery&#151; ModusLink helps clients maximize the value of returned and excess inventory. ModusLink provides clients with a post-sale solution that integrates the Company&#146;s product remanufacturing and value recovery experience with its returns management and contact center capabilities. 

E-Business 

E-Commerce&#151; ModusLink&#146;s e-Commerce platform addresses the complexities and risk of a global web store, optimizing for each stage of the online buying experience so that products can be quickly and easily purchased, serviced and delivered anywhere in the world. ModusLink&#146;s end-to-end solution is fully integrated with global payment, CRM and fulfillment systems, helping clients quickly and easily expand into a new region and country. 

Contact Center&#151; ModusLink&#146;s contact center solution is designed to improve the customer brand experience by increasing the quality of customer interaction across multiple channels. Professional agents have in-depth knowledge of the client, brand and products and the experience to manage both consumer and business-to-business contacts. 

Entitlement Management&#151; ModusLink&#146;s entitlement management solution uses a platform, which gives software publishers, channel providers and end-users a single, centralized portal for the control and use of intellectual property. The platform manages access to digital and multimedia products, content, features and services that can be configured to a client&#146;s needs. 

Financial Management&#151; ModusLink provides clients with a single payment platform for e-commerce, based on a proven technology infrastructure and business processes. Through these services, clients can access new markets, reduce cart abandonment, maximize conversion rate and increase revenue, protect the business and customers from fraud, and maintain customer visibility and ownership, while optimizing behind-the-scenes financial operations. 

The Supply Chain Business solutions seamlessly integrate with other supply chain service providers such as contract manufacturing companies and transportation providers. 

Operating Segments 

The Company has four operating segments: Americas; Asia; Europe; and e-Business. Based on the information provided to the Company&#146;s chief operating decision-maker (&#147;CODM&#148;) for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance and quantitative thresholds, the Company has determined that it has four reportable segments: Americas, Asia, Europe and e-Business. The Company also has Corporate-level activity, which consists primarily of costs associated with certain corporate administrative functions such as legal and finance, which are not allocated to the Company&#146;s reportable segments. The Corporate-level balance sheet information includes cash and cash equivalents, trading securities, investments in affiliates, notes payables and other assets and liabilities which are not identifiable to the operations of the Company&#146;s operating segments. Certain reportable segment information, including revenue, profit and asset information, is set forth in Note 20 of the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 below and in &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#148; included in Item 7 below. 

Technology Infrastructure 

The Company&#146;s information technology systems and infrastructure serves as the backbone of a client&#146;s fully integrated global supply chain program and manages the flow and use of physical assets and information. The Company offers a secure and redundant operating environment to ensure the integrity and privacy of its clients&#146; data. The Company works with clients to integrate data, tools and applications to deliver an optimized solution that meets its clients&#146; business needs and improves management of the global supply chain. 

The Company&#146;s Enterprise Resource Planning (&#147;ERP&#148;) system is designed to provide the visibility and control needed for better decision making, rapid response to global market dynamics and effective asset utilization across services and geographies. The Company has recently embarked on an ERP upgrade further improving its data collection and reporting tools and systems across its geographic footprint. 

&#160; 

Facilities 

The Company&#146;s global footprint consists of an integrated network of strategically located facilities, including sites throughout North America, Europe and Asia. The Company&#146;s regionally optimized and highly scalable solution centers are designed to provide the flexibility to manage supply chain requirements, deliver and configure products in-region, close to the point of consumption or close to the point of manufacturing in low-cost regions, such as Asia Pacific, Eastern Europe and Mexico for maximum efficiency and cost-effectiveness. 

Sales and Marketing 

The Company&#146;s sales and marketing staff is strategically and globally aligned to support the development, marketing and sale of its supply chain management services and solutions worldwide. 

The Company&#146;s marketing efforts are focused on developing greater awareness and brand recognition among its target client base, with an emphasis on companies within its key markets of computing, software, storage, consumer electronics, communications and retail. The Company markets its services and solutions through its website, other online channels, public relations, advertising and tradeshow campaigns, and has developed collateral materials and sales tools to support these efforts. The Company sells its services and solutions on a global scale, through a direct sales channel. The Company&#146;s strategically aligned, global sales staff identifies new opportunities and cultivates leads in all of its key regions throughout North America, Europe and Asia as well as within its target markets around the world. The Company&#146;s sales staff is focused on winning new programs with existing clients, while developing new relationships to further diversify its client base. 

Competition 

The market for the supply chain management service offerings provided by the Company is highly competitive. As an end-to- end solutions provider with service offerings covering a range of supply chain operations and activities across the globe, the Company competes with different companies depending on the type of service it is providing or the geographic area in which an activity is taking place. 

For the supply chain solutions, the Company faces competition from Electronics Manufacturing Services/Contract Manufacturers (EMS/CM), third party logistics (3PL) providers, Supply Chain Management (SCM) companies, and regional specialty companies. For the aftermarket services, the Company competes against independent repair vendors, EMS/CM companies, 3PL providers, and SCM companies. For the e-business solutions, the Company&#146;s competition includes global outsource providers, software as service providers and technology providers. For the entitlement management solutions the Company competes against computer software providers offering content and document management solutions. As a provider of an outsourcing solution, the Company&#146;s competition also includes current and prospective clients, who evaluate the Company&#146;s capabilities in light of their own capabilities and cost structures. 

The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in its market are quality and range of services, technological capabilities, costs, location of facilities, and responsiveness and flexibility. With the Company&#146;s end-to-end supply chain solution, global footprint, strong client service acumen, and its integrated global supply chain e-Commerce services, the Company believes that it is positioned well to compete in each of the markets it serves. 

Clients 

A limited number of clients account for a significant percentage of the Company&#146;s consolidated net revenue. For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, the Company&#146;s 10 largest clients accounted for approximately 71%, 76% and 80% of consolidated net revenue, respectively. Sales to GoPro, Inc. (&#147;GoPro&#148;) accounted for approximately 13%, 19%, and 11% of the Company&#146;s consolidated net revenue for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Sales to Philips International B.V. and Philips Consumer Lifestyle B.V. (together &#147;Philips&#148;) accounted for approximately 13%, 10%, and 8% of the Company&#146;s consolidated net revenue for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. All four reportable segments report revenues associated with GoPro. The Europe reportable segment reports revenue associated with Philips. In general, the Company does not have any agreements which obligate any client to buy a minimum amount of services from the Company, or which designate the Company as its sole supplier of any particular services. The loss of a significant amount of business or program with any key client could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company believes that it will continue to derive the vast majority of its consolidated operating revenue from sales to a small number of clients. There can be no assurance that revenue from key clients will not decline in future periods. 

&#160; 

The Company sells its services to its clients primarily on a purchase order basis rather than pursuant to contracts with minimum purchase requirements. Consequently, sales are subject to demand variability by such clients. The Company purchases and maintains adequate levels of inventory in order to meet client needs rapidly and on a timely basis. The Company has no guaranteed price, quantity or delivery agreements with its suppliers other than the purchase obligations noted in Note 10. Because of the diversity of its services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of its facilities, the Company uses numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for its operations. The Company is not and does not expect to be adversely affected by an inability to obtain materials. 

International Operations 

The Company currently conducts business in many countries including China, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Ireland, and Singapore, among others, in addition to its North America operations. In fiscal year 2016, approximately 77% of the Company&#146;s consolidated net revenue was generated internationally. Refer to Note 20 of the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 below. 

The Company&#146;s international operations increase its exposure to U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, and labor practices, which are often complex and subject to variation and unexpected changes, and with which the Company must comply. A substantial portion of our international business is conducted in China, where we face (i) the challenge of navigating a complex set of licensing and tax requirements and restrictions affecting the conduct of business in China by foreign companies, (ii) potential limitations on the repatriation of cash, (iii) foreign currency fluctuation and (iv) evolving tax laws. 

Seasonality 

The demand of our clients&#146; products is subject to seasonal consumer buying patterns. As a result, the services we provide to our clients are also subject to seasonality, with higher revenue and operating income typically being realized from handling our clients&#146; products during the first half of our fiscal year, which includes the holiday selling season. 

Intellectual Property 

The Company relies upon a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. From time to time, we develop new trade secrets and other intellectual property or obtain intellectual property through acquisition activities. Our business is not substantially dependent on any single or group of patents, trademarks, copyrights or licenses. 

Employees 

At July 31, 2016, we employed approximately 2,200 persons on a full-time basis, 360 in the Americas, 1,100 in Asia and 840 in Europe. Our subsidiaries in Mexico are parties to several collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 53 employees. Our subsidiary in France is party to collective bargaining agreements covering its employees. Approximately 113 of the employees of our Ireland operation are members of labor unions. As of August 2016, approximately 140 of the employees at one of our China operations are members of labor unions. Unionizing activities are anticipated at another one of our Asia facilities at which approximately 104 individuals are employed. We consider our employee relations to be good. From time to time we hire project-based, temporary workers based on our client needs and seasonality of our business, and at times the number of these workers may approximate the number of our full-time employees. 

Our Corporate Information 

We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports available through our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our internet address is http://www.moduslink.com. The contents of our website are not part of this annual report on Form 10-K, and our internet address is included in this document as an inactive textual reference only. 

&#160; 

