 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Our Company 

Steel Dynamics, Inc. (the company) is one of the largest steel producers and one of the largest metals recyclers in the United States based on a current estimated annual steelmaking and coating capability of approximately 11 million tons, and actual recycling volumes. We reported net sales of $7.6 billion, $8.8 billion, and $7.4 billion during 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. The primary sources of our revenues are from the manufacture and sale of steel products, processing and sale of recycled ferrous and nonferrous metals, and the fabrication and sale of steel joist and deck products. 

Competitive Strengths / Business Strategies 

We believe our financial strength and flexibility, coupled with our competitive advantages of maintaining a low, highly variable cost structure, producing a diversified value-added product offering, controlling a secure supply of recycled ferrous metals, fostering an entity-wide entrepreneurial culture and having an experienced senior management team and work force, positions us well to continue to strengthen our leadership position and execute our growth strategy. 

One of the Lowest Cost Steel Producers in the United States; State-of-the-Art Facilities / Continue to Maintain Low Production Costs 

We are focused on continuing to maintain and enhance one of the lowest operating cost structures in the North American steel industry. Our low operating costs are primarily a result of our efficient plant designs and operations, our high productivity rate, such as our productivity rate of approximately 0.3 man hours per hot band ton produced at our Butler Flat Roll Division, low ongoing maintenance cost requirements and strategic locations near our customers and sources of our primary raw material, ferrous scrap. 

We will continue to strive to optimize the use of our equipment, enhance our productivity and explore new technologies to further improve our unit costs of production at each of our facilities. As one of the lowest cost producers in each of our three primary operating segments, we are able to better manage through cyclical and non-cyclical downturns, and to consistently maximize our profitability. We continuously seek to maximize the variability of our cost structure and to reduce per unit and fixed costs. Our incentive compensation plans at all employee levels are based on both divisional and consolidated company performance. Performance-based incentive compensation is designed to reward high productivity and efficient use of physical resources and capital employed. Additionally, leveraging existing facilities through capital effective organic growth and diversified product offerings allows us to maximize utilization of current cost structures. 

Secure Supply of High Quality, Just-in-time Ferrous Raw Materials 

We maintain a secure supply of ferrous raw material resources through the benefit of our metals recycling operations and Iron Dynamics. Ferrous materials represent the single largest raw material component of our steel operations' manufacturing costs, excluding The Techs, representing 55% and 65% of such costs in 2015 and 2014, respectively. During 2015 and 2014, our metals recycling operations (OmniSource) provided our steel operations with 37% and 44%, respectively, of its ferrous scrap requirements based on volume. This represented 54% and 48% of OmniSource's total ferrous scrap shipments during 2015 and 2014, respectively. During 2015 and 2014, our steel operations consumed 8.8 and 7.6 million tons, respectively, of metallic materials, of which iron units, other than scrap, represented approximately 12% and 9% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Iron Dynamics supplies 100% of its production to the Butler Flat Roll Division, representing 66% and 62% of their iron units in 2015 and 2014, respectively, through the transfer of liquid pig iron and hot briquetted iron, which are higher-quality, energy-saving ferrous raw materials. We believe our metals recycling operations and 

Iron Dynamics provide us with a high quality, cost effective, and secure raw material platform for effective working capital management. 

Diversified Product Mix / Expand Product Offerings 

We are one of the most diversified steel companies in the United States, with very broad product offerings. We currently offer a broad range of steel products (see Steel Operations Products and Sales by End Market table following), including: 

Sheet Products. Hot roll, cold roll and coated steel, including a wide variety of specialty products, such as light gauge hot roll, galvanized, galvanneal, Galvalume&#174;, Galfan, and painted products. 

Long Products. Structural steel beams, pilings, and standard and premium grade rail; engineered special-bar-quality of numerous sizes and chemistries; various merchant-bar products including rounds, angles, flats, channels, and reinforcing bar; and channels and specialty steel sections. 

Steel Finishing and Fabrication Services. Turning, polishing, straightening, chamfering, precision saw-cutting and heat-treating of bar products; and cutting to length, additional straightening, hole punching, shot blasting, welding and coating of beams, channels and specialty steel sections. 

Metals Recycling. An array of both ferrous and nonferrous scrap processing, scrap management, transportation, and brokerage products and services. 

Steel Fabrication. Steel joists and steel deck material, including specialty deck. 

This diversified mix of products enables us to access a broad range of end-user markets, serve a broad customer base, and help mitigate our market exposure to any one product or end-user market. In addition, our value-added product offerings help to balance our exposure to commodity grade products supplied by other domestic steel and to a larger extent in 2015 and 2014, foreign manufacturers. 

We will continue to seek additional opportunities and collaborate with our customers to anticipate future needs to further expand our range of products, such as the recent expansions at our Engineered Bar Products Division into high-quality smaller-diameter SBQ bars, and at our Structural and Rail Division into premium grade rails. We also utilize greenfield projects and acquisitions, such as the September 14, 2015 purchase of steel deck facilities from Consolidated Systems, Inc. (CSi), and the September 16, 2014, acquisition of Columbus Flat Roll Division, for avenues of further diversification. Columbus Flat Roll Division is in the process of expanding its offering of value-added flat roll steel products through the addition of painting and Galvalume&#174; capabilities, which is expected to begin operations in the first quarter of 2017. 

Strategic Geographic Locations / Enter New Geographic Markets 

The majority of our steelmaking facilities are in locations near sources of scrap materials and near our customer base, allowing us to realize freight savings for inbound scrap as well as for outbound steel products destined for our customers. This also allows us to provide consistent on-time delivery to our customer base with relatively short lead times, further enhancing our customer relationships. Our coated sheet steel products are cost effectively available through our locations in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Jeffersonville, Indiana due to river access, as are all of our Columbus Flat Roll Division sheet steel products. Recycled ferrous scrap and iron units represent the most significant component of our cost of steel manufacturing. Our metals recycling facilities are located in the Upper Midwest and Southeastern U.S., and thus further expand our geographic service area. We believe these regions account for a majority of the total ferrous scrap produced in the United States. Our steel fabrication operations have a national footprint allowing us to serve the entire joist and deck domestic market and national accounts. 

We may seek to enter new markets in strategic geographic locations that offer attractive growth opportunities. 

Experienced Management Team and Unique Corporate Culture / Foster Entrepreneurial Culture 

Our senior management team is highly experienced and has a proven track record in the steel, metals recycling, and steel fabrication industries. Management's objectives are closely aligned with our stockholders through meaningful stock ownership positions and performance-based compensation programs that are correlated to the company's profitability and operational performance in relationship to its steel manufacturing peers. Our entrepreneurial culture resonates throughout each of our operating segments. We emphasize decentralized decision making, with corporate risk oversight, and have established incentive compensation programs specifically designed to reward employee teams for their efforts toward identifying ways to enhance productivity, improve profitability, and control costs. 

We intend to continue to foster our entrepreneurial culture and emphasize decentralized operational decision making and responsibility, while maintaining corporate risk oversight. We will reward teamwork, innovation, and operating efficiency. We will also continue to focus on maintaining the effectiveness of our incentive-based bonus plans that are designed to maximize overall productivity and align the interests of our management and employees with our stockholders. 

Industry Segments 

We have three reporting segments: steel operations, metals recycling operations, and steel fabrication operations. Please refer to Notes 1 and 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional segment information, including changes to our reporting segments that were effective beginning with the third quarter 2015 results. 

Steel Operations Segment 

Steel operations consist of our six electric arc furnace steel mills, producing steel from ferrous scrap and scrap substitutes, utilizing continuous casting, automated rolling mills, and ten downstream steel coating lines, and Iron Dynamics (IDI), our liquid pig iron production facility that supplies solely the Butler Flat Roll Division. Our steel operations sell directly to end users, steel fabricators, and service centers. These products are used in numerous industry sectors, including the automotive, construction, manufacturing, transportation, heavy and agriculture equipment, and pipe and tube (including OCTG) markets. The most significant portion of our products is tied to the automotive, construction and other manufacturing sectors. Our steel operations accounted for 69%, 63%, and 61% of our consolidated net sales in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. We are predominantly a domestic steel company, with only 5% and 4% of our revenues generated from exported sales during 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Our steel operations consist primarily of steelmaking and coating operations. The following chart summarizes the locations and the current estimated production capacities of our facilities: 

Steel Production Capacity (tons) 

&#160; Casting &#160; Rolling/Billet &#160; Sheet Products: &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Butler Flat Roll Division&#151;Butler, Indiana &#160; &#160; 3,050,000 &#160; &#160; 3,000,000 &#160; Columbus Flat Roll Division&#151;Columbus, Mississippi &#160; &#160; 3,400,000 &#160; &#160; 3,200,000 &#160; Long Products: &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Structural and Rail Division&#151;Columbia City, Indiana &#160; &#160; 2,200,000 &#160; &#160; 1,800,000 &#160; Engineered Bar Products Division&#151;Pittsboro, Indiana &#160; &#160; 780,000 &#160; &#160; 950,000 &#160; Roanoke Bar Division &#151; Roanoke, Virginia &#160; &#160; 650,000 &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; Merchant Bars &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; 500,000 &#160; Billets &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; 150,000 &#160; Steel of West Virginia&#151;Huntington, West Virginia &#160; &#160; 290,000 &#160; &#160; 355,000 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#160; &#160; 10,370,000 &#160; &#160; 9,955,000 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

&#160; 

Steel Coating Capacity (tons) 

&#160; Galvanizing &#160; Painting &#160; Sheet Products: &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Butler Flat Roll Division (3 lines)&#151;Butler, Indiana &#160; &#160; 785,000 &#160; &#160; 240,000 &#160; Butler Flat Roll Division (2 lines)&#151;Jeffersonville, Indiana &#160; &#160; 370,000 &#160; &#160; 190,000 &#160; Columbus Flat Roll Division (2 lines)&#151;Columbus, Mississippi &#160; &#160; 1,100,000 &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; The Techs (3 lines)&#151;Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania &#160; &#160; 1,005,000 &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#160; &#160; 3,260,000 &#160; &#160; 430,000 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

Note: Capacities represent manufacturing capabilities based on mill configuration and related employee support. These capacities do not represent expected volumes in a given year. In addition, estimates of mill capacity, particularly rolling capacity, are highly dependent on the specific product mix manufactured. Each of our mills can and do roll many different types and sizes of products; therefore, our capacity estimates assume a typical product mix. 

The following chart summarizes our steel operations products and the percentage of sales tons by end market: 

SHEET PRODUCTS 

Our sheet steel products, consisting of hot roll, cold roll and coated steel products are produced by Butler and Columbus Flat Roll Divisions, and our ten downstream coating lines. Our sheet operations represented 65%, 59%, and 57% of steel operations net sales in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. We produced the following sheet steel at these facilities (tons): 

&#160; &#160; 2015 &#160; 2014 &#160; Butler Flat Roll Division &#160; &#160; 2,695,000 &#160; &#160; 3,016,000 &#160; Columbus Flat Roll Division&#151;since September 15, 2014 acquisition &#160; &#160; 2,645,000 &#160; &#160; 815,000 &#160; The Techs &#160; &#160; 661,000 &#160; &#160; 712,000 &#160; 

The following chart summarizes the types of sheet products we sold during the respective years: 

Sheet Steel Product Mix 

Customers. Steel processors and service centers typically act as intermediaries between primary sheet steel producers and the many end-user manufacturers that require further processing of hot roll coils. The additional processing performed by the intermediate steel processors and service centers include pickling, galvanizing, cutting to length, slitting to size, leveling, blanking, shape correcting, edge rolling, shearing and stamping. We believe that our intermediate steel processor and service center customers will remain an integral part of our customer base. Columbus Flat Roll Division allows us to capitalize on the industrial markets in the Southern U.S. and Mexico, as well as expand our customer base into line and other pipe products. Galvanized flat roll products produced by Butler and Columbus Flat Roll Divisions, and The Techs are similar and are sold to a similar customer base. However, The Techs specializes in the galvanizing of specific types of flat roll steels in generally non-automotive applications, servicing a variety of customers in the heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), construction, agriculture and consumer goods markets. Our sheet steel operations also provide a significant portion of the sheet steel utilized in our steel fabrication operations. 

The following chart summarizes the types of customers who purchased our sheet steel products during the respective years: 

Sheet Steel Customers 

Competition. Our sheet steelmaking operations compete with domestic and foreign integrated and electric arc furnace based hot roll coil producers. Additionally, the global steel industry suffers from over-capacity, and that excess capacity in 2015 has resulted in steel manufacturers in certain countries exporting steel at prices that are lower than prevailing domestic prices, and at or below their cost of production. Steel imports throughout 2015 and 2014 have been at record levels of 29% and 28% of U.S. consumption, respectively. 

LONG PRODUCTS 

Our Structural and Rail Division is capable of producing a variety of parallel flange sections such as Wide Flange Beams, American Standard Beams, Manufactured Housing Beams, H Piling and Channel sections for the construction, transportation and industrial machinery markets. They also produce standard strength carbon, intermediate alloy hardness, and premium grade rails in 40 to 320 feet lengths for the railroad industry. Our state-of-the-art heat treating system allows us to produce high-quality premium rail, which has been certified by all but one Class I railroads. In addition, our rail-welding facility has the ability to weld rails to lengths of 1,600 feet, which offers substantial savings to the railroads both in terms of initial capital cost and through reduced maintenance. Our Structural and Rail Division produced 1.2 million tons and 1.3 million tons during 2015 and 2014, respectively, of which 269,000 tons and 225,000 tons, respectively, was rail production. 

Our Engineered Bar Products Division is capable of producing a broad array of engineered special-bar-quality (SBQ), merchant-bar-quality (MBQ), rounded-cornered squares, and smaller-diameter engineered round bars. The recently completed expansion of our smaller-diameter rolling mill increased the mill's product offering into high-quality smaller-diameter (1-inch to 3-inch) precision SBQ bars. Without this product diversification expansion, production tons at this mill could have been significantly less due to the weak heavy equipment and agriculture markets in 2015. We produced 516,000 tons and 670,000 tons during 2015 and 2014, respectively, at this facility. Adjacent to this mill, we have a bar finishing facility, with an annual capacity of 260,000 tons, which provides various downstream finishing operations for our SBQ steel bars. Processing operations include turning, polishing, straightening, chamfering, precision saw-cutting and heat-treating capabilities. In addition, 

non-destructive testing services are available, including eddy current, flux leakage and ultrasonic inspection. 

Our Roanoke Bar Division sells angles, merchant rounds, flats, channels, reinforcing bars and billets. During 2015 and 2014, respectively, Roanoke Bar Division produced 536,000 and 601,000 tons of billets and 389,000 tons and 432,000 tons of finished steel products. 

Steel of West Virginia primarily sells beams, channels and specialty steel sections. Unlike most other mills, Steel of West Virginia frequently performs fabrication and finishing operations on its products, such as cutting to length, additional straightening, hole punching, shot blasting, welding and coating. Through this additional finishing, we create custom finished products that are generally placed directly into our customers' assembly operations. We produced 295,000 tons and 294,000 tons of various merchant and structural steel products at Steel of West Virginia during 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Customers. The principal customers for our structural steel products are steel service centers, steel fabricators and various manufacturers. Service centers, though not the ultimate end-user, provide valuable mill distribution functions to the fabricators and manufacturers, including small quantity sales, repackaging, cutting, preliminary processing and warehousing. The steel rail marketplace in the United States, Canada and Mexico is specialized and defined, with seven Class I railroads and a large distribution network. We supply rail in 80 feet lengths and Continuous Welded Rail (CWR) in lengths up to 1,600 feet throughout North America. 

SBQ products are principally consumed by cold finishers, forgers, intermediate processors, OEM manufacturers, steel service centers, and distributors. Our MBQ products are sold primarily to steel service centers, as well as rebar distributors, joist producers, and OEMs. Some of the excess steel billet production at the Roanoke Bar Division is sold to mills without sufficient melting capacities, including our Steel of West Virginia facility. Our steel fabrication operations also purchase angles from Roanoke Bar Division. Steel of West Virginia's customers are primarily OEMs producing truck trailers, industrial lift trucks, merchant products, guardrail posts, manufactured housing, mining, and off-highway construction equipment. Steel of West Virginia's flexible manufacturing capabilities enable us to meet demand for a variety of custom-ordered and designed products. Many of these products are produced in small quantities for low volume end uses resulting in a wide variety of customers, the largest of which are in the truck trailer and industrial lift truck industries. 

Competition. Our structural steel products compete with various electric arc furnace structural steelmakers, some of which have cost structures and flexible management cultures similar to our own, and we compete with alternative structural and manufacturing materials. We also believe, however, that both geography and product choice play significant roles. There are currently no other structural mills located in the Midwest, one of the largest structural steel consuming regions in the U.S., and we provide customer service benefits to service centers, fabricators and manufacturers located in the region. We provide a broad product mix, focusing on the mid-range and larger sections served only by a few other competitors from locations more remote than our facility. Most of Canada's structural steel consumption is located in Canada's eastern provinces, closer to us than our two largest competitors. 

At present, the rail market is principally served by two other domestic producers who have the capability to produce either standard or premium rail. However, they are limited to producing rail in 80 feet lengths and do not own welding operations. We can produce rail in lengths up to 320 feet and weld to lengths of 1,600 feet, requiring far fewer welds for our rail customers. There are currently no rail producers in Canada or Mexico. Global competitors include high quality integrated and electric arc furnace steel producers in Europe and Asia. 

Our Engineered Bar Division competes with a number of other domestic producers of SBQ and MBQ. We are among the largest and most diversified suppliers of engineered SBQ in North America. Our customer service, centralized geographic location, just-in-time delivery and Vendor Management 

Inventory program further differentiates us from other suppliers. Roanoke Bar Division competes primarily with several domestic steel manufactures. Steel West Virginia competes in the specialty shape products market with other domestic and European operations by being able to provide small quantity niche products unique to our customer manufacturing capabilities. 

IRON DYNAMICS (IDI) 

IDI produces liquid pig iron and hot briquetted iron (HBI) that serves as a substitute for a portion of the metallic raw material mix that goes directly into our Butler Flat Roll Division electric arc furnaces to produce steel. Direct reduced iron (DRI) is a metallic product made from mill scale and other iron waste products that have been reduced in a rotary hearth furnace, using natural gas and coal. The reduction method employed by IDI uses coal as the reducing agent. The DRI is either compacted by briquetters to form HBI, or is processed further to produce liquid pig iron. HBI can be immediately used in our melting furnaces or stockpiled for later use. Liquid pig iron is tapped from IDI's submerged arc furnace and immediately transferred in ladles to the adjacent Butler Flat Roll Division mill, where it is combined with ferrous scrap in their electric arc furnaces. 

IDI's primary focus is to maximize liquid pig iron production, due to the inherent economic benefits achieved at the steel mill when the material is used in the steelmaking process, such as reduced energy cost, reduced materials cost, and quicker melting cycles. During 2015 and 2014, respectively, IDI produced 245,000 and 250,000 metric tons, of which 98% and 93%, was liquid pig iron. We have used and plan to continue to use all of the facility's output internally. 

Metals Recycling Operations Segment 

The metals recycling operations consists solely of OmniSource and includes both ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal processing, transportation, marketing, brokerage, and consulting services in approximately 75 locations, strategically located primarily in the Midwest and Southeast portion of the United States. In addition, OmniSource designs, installs, and manages customized scrap management programs for industrial manufacturing companies at over 600 locations throughout North America. Our metals recycling operations accounted for 19%, 25%, and 31% of our consolidated net sales in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Our steel mills utilize a portion of the ferrous scrap processed through OmniSource as raw material in our steelmaking operations, and the remainder is sold to other consumers, such as other steel manufacturers and foundries. This strategic symbiotic relationship with our own steelmaking operations provides valuable pull-through demand to OmniSource's ferrous scrap operations. In 2015, 2014, and 2013, OmniSource supplied our steel mills with approximately 37%, 44%, and 45%, respectively, of the tons of their ferrous raw material requirements, representing approximately 54%, 48%, and 44%, respectively, of OmniSource's 2015, 2014, and 2013, ferrous shipped tons. 

OmniSource sold approximately 5.1 million gross tons and 5.6 million gross tons of ferrous material, during 2015 and 2014, respectively, and approximately 1.1 billion pounds and 1.2 billion pounds of nonferrous material, during 2015 and 2014, respectively. During 2015 and 2014, approximately 8% and 7%, respectively, of OmniSource's revenue were from export sales primarily from nonferrous materials. 

We sell various grades of processed ferrous scrap primarily to steel mills and foundries. Ferrous scrap metal is the primary raw material for electric arc furnaces, such as our steel mills. In addition, we sell various grades of nonferrous metals such as copper, brass, aluminum and stainless steel, to aluminum, steel and ingot manufacturers, brass and bronze ingot makers, copper refineries and mills, smelters, specialty mills, alloy manufacturers, and other consumers. 

We purchase ferrous and nonferrous scrap metals, processed and unprocessed, in a variety of forms for our metals recycling facilities. 

Ferrous scrap comes from two primary sources: 

&#149; Manufacturers and industrial plants, metal fabrication plants, machine shops and factories, which generate ferrous scrap referred to as prompt or industrial scrap, and &#149; Scrap dealers, retail individuals, auto wreckers, demolition firms and others who generate steel and iron scrap, referred to as "obsolete" scrap. Obsolete scrap includes post-consumer waste, demolition of steel structures and automobiles, and represents a significant source of scrap generation. Nonferrous scrap comes from three primary sources: 

&#149; Manufacturers and other nonferrous scrap sources, which generate or sell scrap aluminum, copper, stainless steel, and other nonferrous metals, &#149; Producers of electric wire, telecommunication service providers, aerospace, defense and recycling companies that generate nonferrous scrap consisting primarily of copper wire, aluminum beverage cans, and various other metals and alloys, and &#149; Retail individuals who sell material directly to our facilities, which they collect from a variety of sources. We do not purchase a significant amount of scrap metal from a single source or from a limited number of major sources. Market demand, and the composition, quality, size, weight and location of the materials are the primary factors that determine prices. 

Products. Our metals recycling operations primarily involve the purchase, processing, and resale of ferrous and nonferrous scrap metals into reusable forms and grades. We process an array of ferrous products through a variety of methods, including sorting, shredding, shearing, cutting, torching, baling, briquetting, and breaking. Our major ferrous products include heavy melting steel, busheling, bundled scrap, shredded scrap and other scrap metal products, such as steel turnings and cast iron. These products vary in properties or attributes related to cleanness, size of individual pieces, and residual alloys. The necessary characteristics of the ferrous products are determined by the specific needs and requirements of the consumer and affect the individual product's relative value. In addition, we process various grades of nonferrous products, including aluminum, brass, copper, stainless steel, and other nonferrous metals. Additionally, we provide transportation logistics (truck, rail, and river barge), management services, marketing, brokerage, and consulting services related to the scrap industry. 

Customers. We sell various grades of processed ferrous scrap to end-users, such as electric arc furnace steel mills, integrated steelmakers, foundries, secondary smelters, and metal brokers, who aggregate materials for other large users. Ferrous scrap metal is the primary raw material for electric arc furnaces, such as our steel mills. Most of our ferrous scrap customers purchase processed scrap through negotiated spot sales contracts which establish a quantity purchase for the month. The price we charge for ferrous scrap depends upon market demand and pricing, transportation costs, as well as, the quality and grade of the scrap. We sell various grades of processed nonferrous scrap to end-users such as aluminum sheet and ingot manufacturers, brass and bronze ingot makers, copper refineries, mills, smelters, specialty steelmakers, alloy manufacturers, wire and cable producers, utilities, and telephone networks. The price we charge for nonferrous scrap depends upon market demand and pricing, transportation costs, as well as, the quality and grade of the scrap. 

Competition. Scrap is a global commodity influenced by conditions in a number of industrialized and emerging-markets throughout Asia, Europe and North America. The markets for scrap metals are highly competitive, both in the purchase of raw or unprocessed scrap, and the sale of processed scrap. 

With regard to the purchase of raw scrap, we compete with numerous independent recyclers, as well as smaller scrap companies engaged only in collecting obsolete scrap. In many cases we also purchase unprocessed scrap metal from smaller scrap dealers and other processors. Successful procurement of materials is determined primarily by the price offered by the purchaser for the raw scrap and the proximity of our processing facility to the source of the raw scrap. Both ferrous and nonferrous scrap sells as a commodity in both national and international markets, which are affected, sometimes significantly, by relative economic conditions, currency fluctuations, and the availability and cost of transportation. Competition for sales of processed scrap is based primarily on the price, quality, and location of the scrap metals, as well as the level of service provided in terms of reliability and timing of delivery. 

We also face potential competition for sales of processed scrap from other producers of steel products, such as electric arc furnace and integrated steel mills, some of which are also vertically integrated in the scrap metals recycling business. In addition, other steel mills may compete with us in attempting to secure scrap supply through direct purchasing from our scrap suppliers. Scrap metal processors also face competition from substitutes for prepared ferrous scrap, such as pre-reduced iron pellets, hot briquetted iron, pig iron, DRI, and other forms of processed iron. The availability and relative prices of substitutes for ferrous scrap could result in a decreased demand for processed ferrous scrap and could result in lower prices and/or lower demand for our scrap products. 

The industry is highly fragmented with many smaller family-owned companies, many regional scrap companies, along with a number of national and global companies, each of which has multiple locations in areas in which OmniSource also operates. No single scrap metals recycler has a significant market share in the domestic market. 

During the fourth quarter of 2015, we determined that the fair market value of OmniSource operations was less than its carrying value, due to the weak global scrap commodity outlook, and thus impaired. As a result, we recorded $428.5 million in pretax non-cash asset impairment charges related to goodwill, trade name, and other related assets. 

Steel Fabrication Operations Segment 

Our steel fabrication operations include eight New Millennium Building Systems plants that primarily serve the non-residential construction industry located in Butler, Indiana; Lake City, Florida; Salem, Virginia; Hope, Arkansas; Juarez, Mexico, and Fallon, Nevada; and Memphis, Tennessee and Phoenix, Arizona, which were acquired from CSi on September 14, 2015. We have established a national operating footprint that allows us to serve the entire U.S. construction market, as well as national accounts, such as large retail chains. 

Steel fabrication operations accounted for 9%, 7%, and 6% of our consolidated net sales during 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. We sold 493,000 tons and 481,000 tons of joist and deck products, during 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our steel operations supply a substantial portion (approximately 63% and 51% in 2015 and 2014, respectively) of the steel utilized in our steel fabrication operations, providing strategic pull-through demand. 

Products: Our steel fabrication operations produce steel building components, including steel joists, girders, trusses (six locations), and steel deck (six locations). Our joist products include bowstring, arched, scissor, double-pitched and single-pitched joists. Our deck products include a full range of steel roof, form, and composite floor deck, and with the 2015 addition of our Tennessee and Arizona plants our product offerings were further expanded to include specialty architectural deck, floor systems, and bridge deck. 

Customers. Our primary steel fabrication operations customers are non-residential steel fabricators. Other customers include metal building companies, general construction contractors, developers, brokers and governmental entities. Our customers are located throughout the United States, including national accounts. 

Markets. Our steel fabrication operations primarily serve the non-residential construction industry. The steel joist and deck market in the U.S. was approximately 1.7 million tons in 2015 and 2014, an increase from 1.5 million tons in 2013, based on trade association estimates. Based on this information, our steel fabrication operations' growth rate has outpaced the steel joist and deck market growth resulting in our increasing market share of approximately 31%, 30%, and 27%, in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We believe we are well positioned with our expanding national footprint to continue to grow as the non-residential construction market continues to be strong, and we have available capacity that can be deployed as needed. 

Competition. We compete with other North American joist and steel deck producers primarily on the basis of price, quality, customer service, and proximity to the customer. Our expanding national footprint allows us to service the entire U.S. non-residential construction market, as well as national accounts such as large retail chains, and certain specialty deck customers. 

Other Operations 

Other operations consists of subsidiary operations that are below the quantitative thresholds required for reportable segments and primarily consist of our Minnesota ironmaking operations, and several smaller joint ventures. Our Minnesota ironmaking operations consists of our iron nugget production facility, Mesabi Nugget, (owned 82% by us); our iron concentrating operations, Mesabi Mining; and, our iron tailings operations, Mining Resources (owned 81% by us). Also included in "Other" are certain unallocated corporate accounts, such as the company's senior secured credit facility, senior notes, certain other investments and certain profit sharing expenses. 

During the fourth quarter of 2014, our Minnesota ironmaking operations reached a steady operating state, indicating a consistency in the operation's production capability, processes and cost structure, including the ability to utilize certain lower-cost raw materials. Given this, we undertook an assessment of the recoverability of the carrying value of our Minnesota ironmaking operation's fixed assets. Given our outlook at that time regarding future operating costs and product pricing, we concluded that the carrying value of these fixed assets was no longer fully recoverable, and the fixed assets were in fact impaired. This assessment resulted in a $260.0 million pretax non-cash impairment charge, including amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests of $46.5 million. Please refer to Note 1 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information regarding the asset impairment charge. Given the significant and sustained decline in pig iron pricing, which resulted in the cost of iron nugget production to be meaningfully higher than product selling prices, management and the board of directors elected to indefinitely idle the Minnesota ironmaking operations in May 2015. Upon that decision, and the decision to monetize existing raw material inventory, we recorded an inventory lower-of-cost or market charge of $21.0 million (inclusive of noncontrolling interests of $3.6 million), in cost of goods sold in the second quarter 2015. Operating losses associated with our Minnesota ironmaking operations have been significantly curtailed post-idling. 

Sources, Availability, and Cost of Steel and Other Operations' Raw Materials 

Scrap Metals. The principal raw material of our steel operations is scrap metal derived from, among other sources "home scrap," generated internally at steel mills themselves; industrial scrap, generated as a by-product of manufacturing; and "obsolete" scrap recycled from end-of-life automobiles, appliances, railroad cars and railroad track materials, agricultural machinery and demolition scrap from obsolete structures, containers and machines. 

Ferrous scrap typically comprises more than 80% of the metallic melt mix in electric arc furnace steelmaking, in contrast to integrated mill steelmaking, where the proportion of scrap has traditionally been approximately 25% to 35%. Depending upon the scrap substitute material that may be available from time to time, and the relative cost of such material, the percentage of scrap used in our steelmaking operations could be increased or reduced in our metallic melt mix. 

Many variables can impact ferrous scrap prices, all of which reflect the pushes and pulls of the supply demand equation. These factors include the level of U.S. steel production (for high-quality, low-residual scrap is a by-product of steel manufacturing activity), the level of exports of scrap from the United States, and the amount of obsolete scrap production. Generally, as domestic steel demand increases, so does scrap demand and resulting scrap prices. The reverse is also normally, but not always, true with scrap prices following steel prices downward when supply exceeds demand. In 2015, domestic steel mill utilization and steel pricing was negatively impacted by record levels of steel imports resulting in lower demand for scrap, forcing ferrous pricing downward throughout the year. 

The price of ferrous scrap, as a commodity, has tended to be volatile, rising and falling with supply, and not always in lock step with or in proportion to the market price of steel. In addition, domestic ferrous scrap prices generally have a strong correlation and spread to global pig iron pricing. Scrap prices declined sharply in 2015 due to domestic scrap competition, the strong U.S. dollar tempering scrap exports, lower steel mill utilization rates resulting from excessive steel imports, and decreasing global pig iron prices. When scrap prices greatly accelerate, this challenges one of the principal elements of an electric arc furnace based steel mill's traditional lower cost structure&#151;the cost of its metallic raw material. 

The following table provides pricing per gross ton from American Metal Market (AMM) and Ryan's Notes (Pig Iron) estimates for ferrous materials used in steel production: 

Ferrous Material Pricing 

Iron Units. In addition to scrap, DRI, hot briquetted iron, pig iron, and iron nuggets are used in our electric arc furnace steel mill production. During 2015 and 2014, we consumed 8.8 million tons and 7.6 million tons, respectively, of metallic materials in our steelmaking furnaces, of which, iron units other than scrap, represented approximately 12% and 9% of the tons in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Of these iron substitute units consumed, our Iron Dynamics operations supplies 100% of its production to the Butler Flat Roll Division mill, representing 66% and 62% of their iron units in 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Energy Resources 

Electricity. Electricity is a significant input required in the electric arc furnaces in our steelmaking operations (excluding The Techs), representing 6% and 5% of steel production costs of goods sold in 2015 and 2014, respectively. We have entered into a fixed price interruptible electricity supply agreement that extends through December 31, 2017, for the Butler Flat Roll Division. The contract allows our supplier to interrupt service in the event of an emergency or in response to various market conditions. Columbus Flat Roll Division, Roanoke Bar Division and Steel of West Virginia have each entered into fixed price contracts, while our Engineered Bar Products Division has a combination of fixed pricing and market pricing for the various components of the electrical services (demand charge, energy charge, riders, etc.). Our Structural and Rail Division purchases electricity at current market prices and through forward contracts at fixed prices. 

Natural Gas. We purchase a portion of our steelmaking operations' natural gas requirements at market prices and a portion by entering into hedging transactions on the futures markets for ultimate physical delivery in order to help minimize price volatility. These contracts typically have duration of up to 24 months, but on occasion may extend further. Natural gas represented 1.3% and 1.5% of steelmaking operations (excluding The Techs) costs of goods sold in 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Patents and Trademarks 

We currently do not own any material patents or patent applications for technologies that are in use in our production processes. We have seven major registered trademarks, as follows: 

&#149; the mark "SDI" and a chevron alone; &#149; the mark "SDI" and a chevron and "Steel Dynamics, Inc." to the right of the chevron; &#149; the mark "SDI" and a chevron and "Steel Dynamics" to the right of the chevron; &#149; the mark "OmniSource Corporation" with the circle logo design; &#149; the slogan "The Best in Metals Recycling"; &#149; the mark "The Techs"; and &#149; the mark "New Millennium Building Systems, LLC". Research and Development 

Our research and development activities have consisted of efforts to develop or improve our products and operating processes, and our efforts to develop and improve alternative ironmaking technologies through Iron Dynamics and, prior to idling, our Minnesota ironmaking operations. Most of these research and development efforts have been conducted in-house by our employees. 

Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to substantial and evolving local, state, and federal environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges 

to surface and ground water and to sewer systems, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon permits regulating discharges into the air or into the water or the use and handling of by-products in order to operate our facilities. We dedicate considerable resources aimed at achieving material compliance with federal and state laws concerning the environment. While we do not currently believe that our future compliance efforts with such provisions will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, this is subject to change in the evolving regulatory environment in which we operate. 

Since the level of enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, or the nature of those laws that may be enacted from time to time are subject to changing social or political pressures, our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase in the future. In addition, due to the possibility of unanticipated regulatory or other developments, the amount and timing of future environmental expenditures may vary substantially from those currently anticipated. The cost of current and future environmental compliance may also place U.S. steel producers at a competitive disadvantage with respect to foreign steel producers, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. 

Pursuant to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, which governs the treatment, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or U.S. EPA, and authorized state environmental agencies may conduct inspections to identify areas where there may have been releases of solid or hazardous constituents into the environment and require the facilities to take corrective action to remediate any such releases. RCRA also allows citizens to bring certain suits against regulated facilities for potential damages and cleanup. Our steelmaking and certain other facilities generate wastes subject to RCRA. Our manufacturing operations produce various by-products, some of which, for example, electric arc furnace or EAF dust, are categorized as solid or hazardous waste, requiring special handling for disposal or for the recovery of metallics. We collect such by-products in pollution controlled equipment, such as baghouses, and either recycle or dispose of these by-products. While we cannot predict the future actions of the regulators or other interested parties, the potential exists for required corrective action at these facilities, the costs of which could be substantial. 

Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the U.S. EPA and, in some instances, private parties have the authority to impose joint and several liability for the remediation of contaminated properties upon generators of waste, current and former site owners and operators, transporters and other potentially responsible parties, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal activity. Many states have statutes and regulatory authorities similar to CERCLA and to the U.S. EPA. We have a number of material handling agreements with various contractors to properly dispose of or recycle our electric arc furnace dust and certain other by-products of our operations. However, we cannot assure that, even if there has been no fault by us, we may not still be cited as a waste generator by reason of an environmental cleanup at a site to which our by-products were transported. 

The Clean Water Act and similar state laws apply to aspects of our operations and impose regulatory burdens related to the discharge of wastewater, stormwater and dredged or fill material. U.S. EPA, states and, in certain instances, private parties have the ability to bring suit alleging violations and seeking penalties and damages. The Clean Water Act's provisions can require new or expanded water treatment investments to be made and can limit or even prohibit certain current or planned activities at our operations. 

The Clean Air Act and analogous state laws require many of our facilities to obtain and maintain air permits in order to operate. Air permits can impose new or expanded obligations to limit or prevent current or future emissions and to add costly pollution control equipment. Enforcement can be brought 

by U.S. EPA, the states and, in certain instance, private parties and can result in large penalties and injunctive relief. 

In addition, there are a number of other environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that apply to our facilities and may affect our operations. By way of example and not of limitation, certain portions of the federal Toxic Substances Control Act, Oil Pollution Act, Safe Drinking Water Act and Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations implemented by the regulatory agencies, apply to aspects of our facilities' operations. Many of these laws allow both the governments and citizens to bring certain suits against regulated facilities for alleged environmental violations. Finally, any steelmaking and metals recycling company could be subject to certain toxic tort suits brought by citizens or other third parties alleging causes of action such as nuisance, negligence, trespass, infliction of emotional distress, or other claims alleging personal injury or property damage. 

Employees 

We emphasize decentralized decision-making and responsibility and have established performance-based incentive compensation programs specifically designed to enhance productivity, improve profitability, control costs and foster innovation. Our work force consisted of approximately 7,500 full time employees at December 31, 2015, of which approximately 9% were represented by collective bargaining agreements. The largest group of unionized employees is at Steel of West Virginia. The remaining unionized employees are located in five different OmniSource metals recycling locations, each of which has its own agreement. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. 

Available Information 

Our internet website address is http://www.steeldynamics.com . We make available on our internet website, under "Investors," free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as press releases, ownership reports pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, our Code of Ethics for Principal Executive Officers and Senior Financial Officers, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and any amendments thereto to or waivers thereof, as well as our Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charters. We do not intend to incorporate the contents of our or any other website into this report. 

