 ITEM 1. Business 

Company Overview 

Incorporated in 1989, the Company is a leading provider of transformational data-driven solutions for healthcare organizations. The Company provides computer software-based solutions through its Looking Glass&#174; platform. Looking Glass&#174; captures, aggregates and translates structured and unstructured data to deliver intelligently organized, easily accessible predictive insights to its clients. Hospitals and physician groups use the knowledge generated by the Looking Glass&#174; platform to help them reduce exposure to risk, improve clinical, financial and operational performance and improve patient care. 

The Company&#8217;s software solutions are delivered to clients either by purchased fixed-term or perpetual license, where such software is installed locally in the client&#8217;s data center, or by access to the Company&#8217;s data center systems through a secure connection in a software as a service (SaaS) delivery method. 

The Company operates exclusively in one segment as a provider of health information technology solutions that improve healthcare processes and information flows within a healthcare facility. The Company sells its solutions and services in North America to hospitals and health systems, including physician practices, through its direct sales force and its reseller partnerships. 

Unless the context requires otherwise, references to &#8220;Streamline Health,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; are intended to mean Streamline Health Solutions, Inc. All references to a fiscal year refer to the fiscal year commencing February 1 in that calendar year and ending on January 31 of the following calendar year. 

Solutions 

The Company offers solutions to assist its clients in all areas of the patient care lifecycle including Patient Engagement, Patient Care, Health Information Management (HIM), Coding and Clinical Documentation Improvement (CDI), and Financial Management. Each suite of solutions is designed to improve the flow of critical patient information throughout the enterprise. Each of the Company&#8217;s solutions helps to transform and structure information between disparate information technology systems into actionable data, giving the end user comprehensive access to clinical and business intelligence to enable better decision-making. All solutions can be delivered either by perpetual license or fixed-term installed locally or accessed securely through SaaS. 

Patient Engagement Solutions &#32;- These solutions assist clients with patient access at the very beginning of the care continuum, before care has been provided. Individual workflows include a patient portal, physician referral, patient eligibility and authorization, patient payment including charity management and patient scheduling. Many of these solutions assist clients in the completion of patient records by capturing, storing and intelligently distributing the unstructured data that exists at all touch points throughout the patient care continuum. They create a permanent, document-based repository of historical health information that integrates seamlessly with existing clinical, financial and administrative information systems. 

Patient Care Solutions &#32;- These solutions enable healthcare providers to improve their patient care through individual workflows such as clinical analytics, operating room management, physician portal and care coordination. The Company&#8217;s Looking Glass&#174; platform delivers industry leading clinical analytics that foster an open, continuous learning culture inside a healthcare organization empowering it with real-time, on-demand predictive insight for improved patient outcomes. 

HIM, Coding &#38; CDI &#32; Solutions - These solutions provide an integrated web-based software suite that enhances the productivity of CDI and Coding staff and enables the seamless sharing of patient data. This suite of solutions includes individual workflows such as content management, release of information, computer-assisted coding (eCAC), CDI, abstracting and physician query. The eCAC solution includes patented Natural Language Processing (NLP) that streamlines concurrent chart review and coding workflows. 

Financial Management &#32; Solutions &#32;- These solutions enable staff across the healthcare enterprise to drill down quickly and deeply into actionable and real-time financial data and key performance indicators to improve revenue realization and staff efficiency. This suite of solutions includes individual workflows such as accounts receivable management, denials management, claims processing, spend management and audit management. These solutions provide dashboards, data mining tools and prescriptive reporting, which help to simplify, facilitate and optimize overall revenue cycle performance of the healthcare enterprise. The financial management suite of solutions is used to improve the quality and accuracy of the data captured via our Patient Engagement solutions during patient admission, registration and scheduling. These solutions are also used to increase the completion and accuracy of patient charts and related coding, improve accounts receivable collections, reduce and manage denials, and improve audit outcomes. 

Index to Financial Statements 

Services 

Custom Integration Services &#32;&#8212; The Company&#8217;s professional services team works with clients to design custom integrations that integrate data to or from virtually any clinical, financial, or administrative system. By taking data and documents from multiple, disparate systems and bringing them into one streamlined system, clients are able to maximize efficiencies and increase operational performance. The Company&#8217;s professional services team also creates custom integrations that transfer data from the Company&#8217;s solutions into the client&#8217;s external or internal systems. 

Training Services &#32;&#8212; Training courses are offered to help clients quickly learn to use our solutions in the most efficient manner possible. Training sessions are available on-site or off for as few as one person or multiple staff members. 

Electronic Image Conversion &#32;&#8212; The Company&#8217;s electronic image conversion service allows organizations to protect their repository of images while taking advantage of its content management technology. Electronic image conversion creates one repository that integrates directly with our clinical content management system. This service is available via the SaaS model or for locally-installed solutions. 

Database Monitoring Services &#32;&#8212; The Company&#8217;s advanced database monitoring services for locally-installed clients help lighten the burden of ongoing system monitoring by the client&#8217;s information technology staff and ensure a continual, stable production environment. The Company&#8217;s database administrators ensure the client&#8217;s system is running optimally with weekly, manual checks of the database environment to identify system issues that may require further attention. Monitoring is done through protected connections to data security. 

Clients and Strategic Partners 

The Company continues to provide transformational data-driven solutions to some of the finest, most well respected healthcare enterprises in the United States and Canada. Clients are geographically dispersed throughout North America, with heaviest concentration in the New York metropolitan area, Philadelphia, Texas, Southern California and the west coast of Florida. 

In December 2007, the Company entered into an agreement with Telus Health (formerly Emergis, Inc.), a large international telecommunications corporation based in Canada, pursuant to which Telus Health integrates the Company&#8217;s document management repository and document workflow applications into its Oacis (Open Architecture Clinical Information System) Electronic Health Record solution. Through this agreement, the Company receives revenues from Canadian hospitals that use the document management system. 

In May 2012, the Company entered into a cross marketing agreement with RevPoint Health (formerly nTelegent), an automated workflow process provider with embedded real-time quality assurance functionality designed to enhance the patient registration process, decrease denials, reduce returned mail and complement the solution&#8217;s core focus of improving upfront cash. Under the terms of the agreement, RevPoint is permitted to utilize the Streamline Health business analytics solution to facilitate the increase of upfront cash and cash on hand, as well as reduce accounts receivable days and bad debt for clients. The companies offer each other&#8217;s services to their respective client bases to help maximize revenue cycle performance. 

In December 2012, the Company entered into a cross marketing agreement with RSource, a leading provider of receivables management recovery solutions for healthcare providers. Under the terms of the agreement, RSource utilizes the Streamline Health business analytics solution to facilitate the revenue recovery services it provides to its clients, known as RCover. With Streamline&#8217;s Looking Glass&#174; Financial Management solutions, RSource is able to identify financial opportunities for its clients and to work with any data set to generate fast, sustainable return on investment. In addition, the companies offer each other's services to their respective client bases to help maximize revenue cycle performance. 

During fiscal year 2015 , no &#32;individual client accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. Two &#32;clients represented 13% &#32;and 12% , respectively, of total accounts receivable as of January 31, 2016 . 

During fiscal year 2014 , no &#32;individual client accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. Two &#32;clients represented 16% &#32;and 10% , respectively, of total accounts receivable as of January 31, 2015 . 

For more information regarding our major clients, please see &#8220;Risks Relating to Our Business - Our sales have been concentrated in a small number of clients&#8221; in Part 1, Item 1A, Risk Factors. 

Business Segments 

We manage our business as one single business segment. For our total assets at January 31, 2016 &#32;and 2015 &#32;and total revenue and net loss for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2016 &#32;and 2015 , see our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 herein. 

Index to Financial Statements 

Contracts 

The Company enters into master agreements with its clients that specify the scope of the system to be installed and services to be provided by the Company, as well as the agreed-upon aggregate price and the timetable for services. Typically these are multi-element arrangements that include a perpetual or term license installed locally at the client site (or the right to use the Company&#8217;s solutions as a part of SaaS services), and an initial maintenance term and any third-party components including hardware and software (included with SaaS services), as well as professional services for implementation, integration, process engineering, optimization and training. If the client purchases solutions via SaaS, the client is billed periodically for a specified term from one to seven years in length. The SaaS fee includes all maintenance and support services. The Company also generally provides SaaS clients professional services for implementation, integration, process engineering, optimization and training. Professional services are typically fixed-fee or hourly arrangements billable to clients based on agreed-to milestones or monthly. 

The commencement of revenue recognition varies depending on the size and complexity of the system, the implementation schedule requested by the client and usage by clients of SaaS. Therefore, it is difficult for the Company to accurately predict the revenue it expects to achieve in any particular period. The Company&#8217;s master agreements generally provide that the client may terminate its agreement upon a material breach by the Company or may delay certain aspects of the installation. A termination or installation delay of one or more phases of an agreement, or the failure of the Company to procure additional agreements, could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Historically, the Company has not experienced a material amount of contract cancellations; however, the Company sometimes experiences delays in the course of contract performance and the Company accounts for them accordingly. 

License fees 

The Company incorporates software licensed from various vendors into its proprietary software. In addition, third-party, stand-alone software is required to operate the Company&#8217;s proprietary software. The Company licenses these software products and pays the required license fees when such software is delivered to clients. For information regarding royalty agreements, see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 herein. 

Associates 

As of January 31, 2016 , the Company had 123 associates, with no net changes occurring during fiscal 2015 . The Company utilizes independent contractors to supplement its staff, as needed. None of the Company&#8217;s associates are represented by a labor union or subject to a collective bargaining agreement. The Company has never experienced a work stoppage and believes that its employee relations are good. The Company&#8217;s success depends, to a significant degree, on its management, sales and technical personnel. 

For more information on contracts, backlog, acquisitions and research and development, see also Part II, Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221;. 

Competition 

Several companies historically have dominated the clinical information system software market and several of these companies have either acquired, developed or are developing their own document management and workflow technologies. The industry is undergoing consolidation and realignment as companies position themselves to compete more effectively. Strategic alliances between vendors offering HIM workflow and document management technologies and vendors of other healthcare systems are increasing. Barriers to entry to this market include technological and application sophistication, the ability to offer a proven product, a well-established client base and distribution channels, brand recognition, the ability to operate on a variety of operating systems and hardware platforms, the ability to integrate with pre-existing systems and capital for sustained development and marketing activities. The Company believes that these obstacles taken together represent a moderate to high-level barrier to entry. The Company has many competitors including clinical information system vendors that are larger, more established and have substantially more resources than the Company. 

The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in its market are client recommendations and references, company reputation, system reliability, system features and functionality (including ease of use), technological advancements, client service and support, breadth and quality of the systems, the potential for enhancements and future compatible products, the effectiveness of marketing and sales efforts, price, and the size and perceived financial stability of the vendor. In addition, the Company believes that the speed with which companies in its market can anticipate the evolving healthcare industry structure and identify unmet needs are important competitive factors. 

Requests for Documents 

Copies of documents filed by the Company with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and all amendments to those reports and statements, if any, can be found at the web site http://investor.streamlinehealth.net as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or 

Index to Financial Statements 

furnished to, the SEC. The information contained on the Company's website is not part of, or incorporated by reference, into this annual report on Form 10-K. Copies can be downloaded free of charge from the Company's web site or directly from the SEC web site, http://www.sec.gov. Also, copies of the Company&#8217;s annual report on Form 10-K will be made available, free of charge, upon written request to the Company, attention: Corporate Secretary, 1230 Peachtree Street, NE, Suite 600, Atlanta, GA 30309. 

Materials that the Company files with the SEC may also be read and copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10:00 am to 3:00 pm. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

