 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Introduction

Summer Energy Holdings, Inc. (including our subsidiaries, Summer Energy, LLC ("Summer LLC"), Summer Energy of Ohio ("Summer Ohio") and Summer EM Marketing, LLC ("Marketing LLC")), are referred to collectively in this Annual Report, as the "Company," "Summer Energy," "we," "our" and "us". The Company's primary business operations are conducted through Summer LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary. Summer LLC is a Texas limited liability company that has been licensed within the State of Texas as a Retail Electric Provider ("REP") by the Public Utility Commission of Texas ("PUCT"). As stated above, references to the "Company," the "Registrant," "we," our," and "us" or similar terms, refer to Summer Energy Holdings, Inc. (f/k/a Castwell Precast Corporation), and its predecessors and its subsidiaries (including Summer LLC), except where the context makes clear that the reference is only to Summer LLC.

For more information on the Company and our products and services, please see the information set forth below or visit our website at www.summerenergy.com . The inclusion of our internet address in this Annual Report does not include or incorporate by reference into this Annual Report any information on our website. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") are generally available through the EDGAR system maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.

Description of Our Company and Predecessor

The Company was incorporated in the State of Nevada under the name Castwell Precast Corporation on March 25, 2005. On March 27, 2012, the Company (f/k/a Castwell Precast Corporation), closed the transaction (the "Transaction") contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Contribution entered into on January 17, 2012 among the Company, Summer LLC, and the individual members of Summer LLC. A copy of the Contribution Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 19, 2012, and the description contained herein of the terms of the Contribution Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the provisions thereof. Further, a more complete description of the Transaction is set forth in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 30, 2012. Prior to the consummation of the Transaction, the Company's principal business activity, carried out entirely through its wholly-owned subsidiary Castwell Precast Inc., was the manufacture and installation of decorative window wells made from precast concrete. Castwell Precast Inc. was incorporated in the State of Utah on March 24, 2005. The Company ceased the business of manufacturing and installing decorative window wells, and currently conducts the business of purchasing and reselling electric power within the State of Texas through its wholly owned subsidiary Summer LLC.

Overview

Following the Transaction, the Company now carries on, through Summer LLC, the business of an REP in the State of Texas, with head offices located at 800 Bering Drive, Suite 260, Houston, Texas 77057. The Company's telephone number is (713) 375-2790, its fax number is (713) 375-2794, and its website is www.summerenergy.com. The information accessible through the Company's website does not constitute part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report.

Summer LLC was organized as a Texas limited liability company on April 6, 2011, by the filing of a certificate of organization with the Texas Secretary of State. In September of 2011, Summer LLC was awarded a license by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) to operate as an REP in Texas. In general, Texas regulatory structure permits REPs, such as Summer LLC, to procure and sell electricity at unregulated prices. REPs pay the local transmission and distribution utilities a regulated tariff rate for delivering electricity to their customers. As an REP, we sell electricity and provide the related billing, customer service, collections and remittance services to residential and commercial customers. We offer our customers competitive electricity rates, flexible payment and pricing choices, simple offers with understandable terms, and responsive customer service.

We offer retail electricity to commercial and residential customers in designated target markets within the State of Texas. In the commercial market, the primary targets are small to medium-sized customers (less than one megawatt of peak usage), but we will also selectively pursue larger commercial customers through management's existing, historical relationships. Residential customers are a secondary target market. At this time, a majority of our customers are located in the Houston and Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan areas, although we anticipate a growing number will be located in a variety of other metropolitan and rural areas within Texas.

We rely upon established relationships and low-cost branding programs to attract commercial and residential customers. We continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our areas of operations within Texas as certain market regions elect to opt-in to deregulation. In addition, we continue to evaluate and pursue opportunities to acquire other REPs to the extent these acquisitions would provide value to us.

In most jurisdictions, we are required to enter into agreements with local transmission and distribution service providers for use of the local distribution and transmission systems and operation of functional interfaces necessary for us to serve our customers. With respect to energy supply, we utilize wholesale purchase agreements with wholesale energy providers. We serve as our own qualified scheduling entity for open market purchases and sales of electricity, forecasting our energy demand, and conducting procurement activities through an experienced team of professionals. The forecast for electricity load requirements is based on our aggregate customer base currently served and anticipated weather conditions, as well as forecasted customer acquisition and attrition. We continuously monitor and update our supply positions based on our retail demand forecasts and market conditions. Our policy is to maintain a balanced supply/demand book to limit commodity risk exposure. At this time, we do not plan on maintaining a financial book in addition to our physical supply/demand book for risk-hedging purposes.

We began delivering electricity to customers in mid-February, 2012. We have continued to experience growth in our customer base since that time.

As of December 31, 2015, we had 52 full-time employees. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe our employee relations are good.

Regulatory Environment and the Texas Retail Electric Market

Deregulation of the wholesale electricity market in Texas began in 1995, enabling independent power generators and/or suppliers to: (i) establish operations in Texas alongside those of the regulated utilities; and (ii) gain access to the transmission capabilities of the power grid. Additional legislation in 1999 created an integrated marketplace by linking generators, transmission and delivery companies, REPs, and the independent grid operator, which is the Electric Reliability Council of Texas ("ERCOT"). Beginning January 2002, pursuant to Senate Bill 7, Texas electricity consumers had the choice of picking their Retail Electricity Provider, or REP. As a result of these legislative developments, former integrated utilities were essentially split apart into three business segments: (1) unregulated wholesale power generators; (2) regulated transmission and distribution service providers ("TDSPs"); and (3) unregulated REPs.

In the market, REPs that were spun off from previously integrated utilities are referred to as "affiliated REPs." When affiliated REPs operate in their incumbent markets (an incumbent market refers to those areas previously served by the integrated utility), they are sometimes referred to as "incumbent REPs." Incumbent REPs are subject to restrictions on their ability to compete on price in their incumbent markets in order to foster competition. The two largest affiliated REPs in Texas are TXU and Reliant Energy, situated in the Dallas/Ft. Worth and Houston areas, respectively.

The primary responsibilities of an REP in Texas include customer account initiation and termination, energy supply management and scheduling, billing/remittance processing, and customer service. All REPs must be certified by ERCOT to operate within the Texas market.

ERCOT was founded in 1970, and it oversees all aspects of the Texas power grid for the deregulated market. Under deregulation, ERCOT serves as the Independent System Operator ("ISO") of the power grid and enables REPs, generators, TDSPs, and ultimately customers, to operate in a deregulated marketplace. ERCOT is responsible for coordinating and monitoring all communications by and between the power generator, the retail electric provider and the TDSP, including customer sign up, meter reading and billing between the end user, power generator and the REP.

Subsequent Legislative Developments in Texas

Following its initial efforts at deregulation, Texas adopted subsequent legislation that: (i) allowed retail customers situated in the ERCOT region of Texas to choose an REP; (ii) permitted REPs who are not affiliated with an incumbent utility in a particular market to, with certain exceptions, directly disconnect customers who fail to pay their power bills in a timely manner; and (iii) removed pricing restrictions otherwise known as "Price to Beat" from Incumbent/affiliated REPs, creating a true deregulated competitive market.

Markets Outside of Texas

If the Company enters deregulated markets outside of Texas, we will be required to operate within the specific regulatory environment of such state or region. The rules in the other markets vary from Texas, with some aspects being more favorable and some less favorable than Texas. We will evaluate the regulatory environment of each market, in addition to other operational, financial and customer considerations, before determining whether to pursue other market area opportunities.

Marketing and Sales

The Company is in the process of implementing a multi-tiered marketing and sales strategy. The short-term emphasis is on controlled growth, utilizing indirect marketing through third-party relationships. Indirect marketing efforts, including the following, allow the Company to facilitate growth while keeping expenses low by avoiding the expense associated with creating and managing a full sales team:

&#183;

Aggregators, Brokers, Consultants - often referred to as "ABC's" in the retail power industry;

&#183;

Affinity Programs - airline miles, credit card points, and participating gift cards;

&#183;

Multifamily Housing Programs - incentivizing property management companies based on referrals to their tenants;

&#183;

Referrals - reaching out to individuals connected to the community and providing incentives for sign-ups; and

&#183;

Charitable Programs - enhancing referral programs and offering customers the chance to donate referral fees to local charitable organizations.

As the Company grows, we expect to achieve long-term growth by building our in-house sales team to manage our third-party, as well as our direct marketing efforts. Our direct marketing efforts include, or will include, without limitation:

&#183;

In-house sales staff focused on small to medium sized commercial sales;

&#183;

Face-to-face marketing, including presentations, customer meetings, and business development through newly-formed relationships with consumers (a/k/a cold calling);

&#183;

Direct sales using independent sales associates;

&#183;

Responding to website inquiries from commercial businesses;

&#183;

Identifying opportunities in underserved markets (e.g. South Texas and West Texas); and

&#183;

Community Involvement - establishing our brand throughout the community by giving back and volunteering our time and assistance.

Relationship marketing will play a key role in both channels and should facilitate growth in the marketplace.

Competition and Perceived Competitive Advantages

As more fully set forth under the heading entitled "Risk Factors," the Company faces competition from many competitors who have significantly greater financial resources, well-established brand names, and large, existing installed customer bases. We expect the level of competition to intensify in the future. There is also significant competition from incumbent, traditional, and new electricity providers which may be better capitalized than the Company.

It is understood that there is significant competition in the retail electric market; however, most established competitors target the larger customer segment such as large commercial and industrial operations. This creates a niche that we aggressively target. We focus on small to medium size commercial, residential, and select large businesses in our core marketing efforts. We believe this market segment will yield a higher per-unit-margin with improved customer loyalty.

The Company anticipates the addition of new market participants. Recent entries into the marketplace include single-client companies established for a select number of large electricity users such as refineries or industrial plants. These new participants' strategy is to focus most of their marketing dollars on high-end users, as they assume the larger customers provide the highest return. The Company differentiates its strategy by focusing on the small to mid-size customer segment and building lasting relationships through excellent customer service, flexible terms, unique sales techniques, and competitive pricing.

The Company's present management and staff have significant experience working in the Texas retail energy market. Management and staff also have experience with retail electric providers who operate in Maryland, the District of Columbia and Massachusetts. We believe management's experience with these entities will contribute to management's ability to market and grow the Company into a successful retail electricity provider in Texas.

Because of management's prior experience, management and staff have developed and maintained strong connections with agents, brokers, property owners and others in the Texas market. Through these relationships, the Company anticipates building sales momentum.

Intellectual Property

The Company has not applied for any patents or copyrights. The Company has filed a trademark application for "Summer Energy." The Company has not spent any significant time since its inception on research and development activities.

Additional Information

As more fully set forth under the heading entitled "Risk Factors," the Company is subject to governmental regulation and will face additional costs in complying with such regulations. At this time, the Company does not have an estimate of its annual regulatory compliance costs.

