 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Overview 

We are a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing products for the treatment of central nervous system (CNS) diseases. In 2013, we launched Oxtellar XR (extended-release oxcarbazepine) and Trokendi XR (extended-release topiramate), our two novel treatments for patients with epilepsy. In addition, we are developing multiple product candidates in psychiatry to address significant unmet medical needs and market opportunities for the treatment of Impulsive Aggression (IA) and for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). With SPN-810, we are initially developing the product to treat IA in patients who have ADHD. There are currently no approved products indicated for the treatment of IA. We subsequently plan to develop SPN-810 for treatment of IA in other CNS diseases, such as autism, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and some forms of dementia. 

Our extensive expertise in product development has been built over the past 25 years: initially as a standalone development organization, then as a U.S. subsidiary of Shire plc and, upon our acquisition of substantially all the assets of Shire Laboratories Inc. in late 2005, as Supernus Pharmaceuticals. We market our products in the United States through our own specialty sales force and have and will continue to seek strategic collaborations with other pharmaceutical companies to license our products outside the United States. 

Our neurology portfolio consists of Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR, which are the first once-daily extended release oxcarbazepine and topiramate products, respectively, indicated for epilepsy in the U.S. market. These products are differentiated compared to their immediate release counterpart products by offering convenient once-daily dosing and unique pharmacokinetic profiles. We believe that a once-daily dosing regimen improves compliance, and that the unique smooth and steady pharmacokinetic profiles of once-daily dosing mitigate the blood level fluctuations that are typically associated with immediate release products that can result in adverse events (AEs) or decreased efficacy. 

Underlying our net product revenues of $143.5 million in 2015 is strong growth in prescriptions for Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR. Total prescriptions as reported by Intercontinental Marketing Services (IMS) have shown a steady increase quarter over quarter as shown in the following graph. 

Strong Prescription Growth Two Successful Product Launches 

Source: IMS Monthly Prescriptions 

Given the large and growing base of prescriptions for both topiramate and oxcarbazepine (annualized prescriptions of total topiramate market of 14.3 million and total oxcarbazepine market of 4.5 million), we expect to continue to expand our revenues for Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR for the foreseeable future. We believe these products, together, have the potential to collectively achieve peak net sales in excess of $500 million annually. 

Oxtellar XR is indicated for add-on, adjunctive or concomitant therapy of partial seizures in adults and in children 6 years to 17 years of age. Trokendi XR is indicated for initial monotherapy in patients 10 years of age and older with partial onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and as add-on therapy in patients 6 years of age and older with partial onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures or with seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. 

Our psychiatry product candidates include SPN-810 (molindone hydrochloride) and SPN-812 (viloxazine hydrochloride). We are developing SPN-810 as a novel treatment for IA in patients who have ADHD and SPN-812 for the treatment of ADHD. We initiated the Phase III clinical trials for SPN-810 during the third quarter of 2015 and initiated a Phase IIb clinical trial for SPN-812 in the fourth quarter of 2015. Patient dosing for all trials are anticipated in the first quarter of 2016. We expect to receive data from the first trial for SPN-810 in mid-2017 and data from the Phase IIb trial for SPN-812 by early 2017. 

We have a successful track record of developing and launching novel products by applying proprietary technologies to known drugs to improve existing therapies and expand the treatment to new indications. Our key proprietary technology platforms include: Microtrol, Solutrol and EnSoTrol. These technologies have been utilized to create nine marketed products, including Trokendi XR and Oxtellar 

XR, Adderall XR, Intuniv (developed for Shire), and Orenitram (developed for United Therapeutics Corporation) as well as our key product candidates SPN-810 and SPN-812. 

Products and Product Candidates 

The table below summarizes our current pipeline of novel products and product candidates. 

Product &#160; Indication &#160; Status Oxtellar XR &#160; Epilepsy &#160; Launched Trokendi XR &#160; Epilepsy* &#160; Launched SPN-810 &#160; IA** &#160; Phase III SPN-812 &#160; ADHD &#160; Phase IIb SPN-809 &#160; Depression &#160; Phase II ready 

* Supplemental New Drug Application submitted in August 2015 for treatment in adults for prophylaxis of migraine headache. ** Initial program is in patients with ADHD, with a plan to follow on in other indications, such as IA in patients with autism, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and some forms of dementia. 

We are continuing to expand our intellectual property portfolio to provide additional protection for our technologies, products, and product candidates. We currently have five U.S. patents issued covering Oxtellar XR and six U.S. patents issued covering Trokendi XR, providing patent protection expiring no earlier than 2027 for each product. 

Our Strategy 

Our vision is to be a leading specialty pharmaceutical company developing and commercializing new medicines in neurology and psychiatry. Key elements of our strategy to achieve this vision are to: 

&#149; Drive growth and profitability. We will continue to drive the revenue growth of Trokendi XR and Oxtellar XR by continuing to dedicate sales and marketing resources in the United States. &#149; Advance our pipeline toward commercialization. In 2015, we started trials for our product candidates in our psychiatry portfolio: SPN-810 as a novel treatment for IA in patients who have ADHD and SPN-812 for the treatment of ADHD. We initiated the Phase III clinical trials for SPN-810 during the third quarter of 2015 and a Phase IIb clinical trial for SPN-812 in the fourth quarter of 2015. &#149; Target strategic business development opportunities. We are actively exploring a broad range of strategic opportunities that fit well with our strong presence in CNS. This includes in-licensing products and entering into co-promotion partnerships which are synergistic with our sales force call point for our marketed products and product candidates, co-development partnerships for our pipeline products, and growth opportunities through value-creating and transformative merger and acquisition transactions. &#149; Continue to grow our pipeline. We plan to continue to evaluate and develop additional CNS product candidates that we believe have significant commercial potential through our internal research and development efforts. Our Neurology Portfolio 

Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR are the first once-daily extended release oxcarbazepine and topiramate products indicated for patients with epilepsy in the U.S. market. These products differ from the immediate release products by offering once-daily dosing and unique pharmacokinetic profiles which we 

believe can have very positive clinical effects for some patients. We believe a once-daily dosing regimen improves adherence, making it more probable that patients maintain sufficient levels of medication in their bloodstream to protect against seizures. In addition, the unique smooth and steady pharmacokinetic profiles of our once-daily formulations reduce the peak to trough blood level fluctuations that are typically associated with immediate release products and may result in increased AEs, more symptomatic side effects and decreased efficacy. 

Epilepsy Overview 

Epilepsy is a complex neurological disorder characterized by spontaneous recurrence of unprovoked seizures, which are sudden surges of electrical activity in the brain that impair a person's mental and/or physical abilities. 

Compliance with drug treatment regimens is critically important to achieving effective control for patients with epilepsy. Patient non-compliance with anti-epileptic drug (AED) therapy is a serious issue and remains the most common cause of breakthrough seizures. Not only is taking all prescribed doses critical for epileptic patients, but the timing of when patients take their prescribed doses can also be crucial. 

We believe extended release products, and in particular Trokendi XR and Oxtellar XR, offer important advantages in the treatment of epilepsy. The release profiles of extended release products can produce more consistent and steadier plasma concentrations as compared to immediate release products, potentially resulting in fewer side effects, better tolerability, fewer emergency room visits, and improved efficacy. Improved tolerability may help patients improve adherence, have fewer breakthrough seizures and, correspondingly, enjoy a better quality of life. 

Trokendi XR 

Trokendi XR is the first once-daily extended release topiramate product indicated for patients with epilepsy in the U.S. market, and is designed to improve patient adherence over the current immediate release products, which must be taken multiple times per day. Trokendi XR's pharmacokinetic profile results in lower peak plasma concentrations, higher trough plasma concentrations, and slower input rate. This results in smoother and more consistent plasma concentrations than immediate release topiramate formulations can deliver. We believe that such a profile mitigates blood level fluctuations that are frequently associated with many side effects as well as mitigating the likelihood of breakthrough seizures that patients can suffer when taking immediate release products. Side effects may lead patients to skip doses, which could place them at higher risk for breakthrough seizures. 

In August 2015, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) accepted for review the Company's Supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) for Trokendi XR, requesting FDA approval to expand the indication for Trokendi XR to include treatment in adults for prophylaxis of migraine headache. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act guidelines, the FDA has set a target date in the second quarter of 2016 to complete its review. 

Oxtellar XR 

Oxtellar XR is the only once-daily extended release oxcarbazepine product indicated for the treatment of patients with epilepsy in the U.S. as adjunctive therapy. With its novel pharmacokinetic profile showing lower peak plasma concentrations, a slower rate of input, higher trough plasma concentrations, and smoother and more consistent blood levels compared to immediate release products, we believe Oxtellar XR improves the tolerability of oxcarbazepine and thereby reduces symptomatic side effects. In addition, Oxtellar XR once-per-day dosing is designed to improve patient adherence compared to the current immediate release products that must be taken multiple times per day. 

In a retrospective medical chart review of 200 patients treated with immediate release oxcarbazepine or Oxtellar XR, Oxtellar XR was associated with a significantly lower rate of inpatient hospitalization stays, lower rate of emergency department visits, and a higher rate of compliance. The patient charts were obtained from 17 geographically and clinically diverse sites across the U.S. and included non-academic and academic affiliated practices, general neurology, pediatric neurology, and epilepsy centers. 

Oxtellar XR was one of several products prescribed to children whose safety profile was reviewed at a Pediatric Advisory Committee meeting in March 2015. The committee voted for the FDA to continue its safety monitoring of this product per its current routine. As suggested by the FDA as part of its routine review, safety information has been added to the Oxtellar XR label so that it comports with the Reference Listed Drug, Trileptal. 

Sales and Marketing 

We have established a commercial organization in the U.S. to support current and future sales of Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR. We believe our current sales force of over 150 sales representatives is effectively targeting healthcare providers, primarily neurologists, to support and grow our epilepsy franchise. Simultaneously promoting two epilepsy products allows us to leverage our commercial infrastructure with these prescribers. Assuming our sNDA is approved by the FDA, our intentions are to support the migraine indication without incrementally expanding the sales force. 

If we obtain FDA approval for any of our product candidates in our psychiatry portfolio, we anticipate adding sales representatives who can market our psychiatry products to the relevant population of physicians. 

Manufacturing 

We currently depend on third-party commercial manufacturing organizations (CMOs) for all manufacturing operations, including raw materials, dosage form production, and packaging. This encompasses product for commercial use, as well as product for preclinical research and clinical trials. 

We have entered into agreements with Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc., Packaging Coordinators, Inc and Catalent Pharma Solutions, leading CMOs headquartered in North America, for the manufacture and packaging of the final commercial products Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR. These CMOs offer a comprehensive range of contract manufacturing and packaging service. Both commercial products as well as our product candidates are sourced from single third-party suppliers. 

We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of any of our product candidates beyond Phase II clinical trials, nor do we have plans to develop our own manufacturing operations for Phase III clinical materials or commercial products in the foreseeable future. We currently employ internal resources to manage our manufacturing contractors. 

Epilepsy Competition 

Trokendi XR competes with all immediate release and extended release topiramate products, including Topamax, Qudexy XR, their related generic products as well as other anti-epileptic products. Oxtellar XR competes with all immediate release oxcarbazepine products, including Trileptal and its related generics as well as other anti-epileptic products. 

Our Psychiatry Portfolio 

Our psychiatry portfolio includes three product candidates for the treatment of psychiatric disorders. The most advanced product candidate, SPN-810, has fast track status and is expected to be the first product approved for IA. SPN-812 and SPN-809 are the same active ingredient being developed for 

ADHD and depression, respectively. SPN-812 is currently in a Phase IIb trial and SPN-809 is Phase II ready. 

IA Overview 

The ADHD market, estimated as 69 million prescriptions as of 2015, is projected to grow at 3% annually, to approximately 75 million prescriptions by 2019. Market research we have conducted shows that, for adolescents and children, approximately 40% of ADHD prescriptions are currently written by child psychiatrists, psychiatrists, child neurologists, and high prescribing pediatricians. By 2019, we project that this group of physicians will collectively write approximately 16 million prescriptions for ADHD medication. Of these 16 million ADHD prescriptions, roughly one-third will be written for patients with IA or with IA and other comorbidities. 

IA is not limited to individuals with ADHD. IA occurs in patients with other CNS disorders, including autism, alzheimer's, bipolar disorder, oppositional defiant disorder, conduct disorder, and intermittent explosive disorder. Market research we have conducted indicates that the prevalence of IA in autistic children and adolescents is approximately 45%, and the prevalence of IA in children and adolescents with bipolar disorder is approximately 60%. By 2019, we project that the estimated number of prescriptions for IA in these two categories would range between 4.0 million and 4.5 million. 

ADHD Overview 

ADHD is a common CNS disorder characterized by developmentally inappropriate levels of inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity. ADHD affects an estimated 6% to 9% of all school-age children and 3% to 5% of adults in the United States(1). An estimated 50% of children with ADHD continue to meet criteria for ADHD into adolescence(2). For the year ended December 31, 2015, according to data from IMS, the U.S. market for ADHD prescription drugs was $11.0 billion with 69 million prescriptions. 

Diagnosis of ADHD requires a comprehensive clinical evaluation based on identifying patients who exhibit the core symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity. Although many children may be inattentive, hyperactive or impulsive, the level of severity and degree of functional impairment, as well as considerations of what may be behind the underlying symptoms, determine which children meet the diagnosis and should be treated for ADHD. 

Current Treatments for IA in Patients with ADHD 

Currently, there are no approved medications for the treatment of IA. IA is characteristic of individuals who spontaneously react more strongly than normal to stimuli by committing verbal or physical acts against other people, property, or themselves. Based on our discussions with medical experts, the current treatment options for IA in patients with ADHD include psychosocial interventions, such as school-based or family-based behavioral therapies, which are usually not wholly effective. In the large, multisite Multimodal Treatment Study of Children with ADHD(3), a seminal clinical trial designed by experts from key stakeholder communities such as the National Institute of Mental Health, researchers observed that after 14 months of either ADHD medication-only or a regimen that combined ADHD medication with behavioral interventions, 44% of those children with ADHD (or 26% of the total sample size in the trial) who initially exhibited aggression still had what can be described as IA at the end of the trial, demonstrating that psychosocial interventions may not work for a large percentage of children with ADHD who exhibit aggressive behaviors. 

(1) Dopheide, J.A., Attention-Deficit- Hyperactivity Disorder: An Update , published June 2009 in Pharmacotherapy . (2) Floet, A.M.W., Attention- Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder , published February 2010 in Pediatrics in Review . (3) The MTA Cooperative Group, A 14-month randomized clinical trial of treatment strategies for attention- deficit/hyperactivity disorder , published December 1999 in Archives of General Psychiatry . 9 

In response, doctors have also tried to treat this group with off-label use of prescription medicines, such as mood stabilizers, stimulants and anti-psychotic drugs. Results have varied, but anti-psychotic drugs appear to have the best therapeutic potential. Unfortunately, many of these agents are associated with adverse effects including obesity, dyskinesia, lipid abnormalities, marked increases in prolactin, and increase in diabetes, which is of particular concern when treating pediatric populations. 

SPN-810 (molindone hydrochloride) 

We are developing SPN-810 (molindone hydrochloride) as a novel treatment for IA in patients who have ADHD. During 2014, the FDA granted fast track designation for SPN-810 for the treatment of IA in ADHD in conjunction with standard ADHD treatment. The fast track designation allows for more frequent interactions with the FDA, for the early submission of some sections of the marketing application, and carries the potential for an expedited review category for the New Drug Application (NDA). In early April 2015, the Company submitted to the FDA the IA outcome and assessment scale we propose to use in the Phase III SPN-810 trials. This scale was developed by the Company in close cooperation with the FDA, using current, stringent standards of testing theory and scale development. We met with the FDA in July 2015 to review this scale and to review our proposed primary endpoint for the Phase III trials. The FDA accepted our scale and agreed with our proposed primary endpoint. In December 2015, Supernus and FDA came to an agreement, via the Special Protocol Assessment process, on the conduct of our Phase III program for SPN-810. 

Molindone hydrochloride was previously marketed in the United States as an anti-psychotic to treat schizophrenia under the trade name Moban, albeit at much higher dosages (50 to 225mg/day) than we are using in our development program (18 and 36 mg/day). Moban has not been commercially available since 2010 and the FDA has confirmed that this withdrawal from the market was not due to issues with safety or efficacy. Molindone hydrochloride is unusual among anti-psychotics in that it is less likely to be associated with weight gain and, in preclinical models, has not caused increases in prolactin levels as seen with other drugs. 

In addition, we believe the lower doses tested for the proposed indication of IA in ADHD should be better tolerated than the higher doses approved to treat schizophrenia. The Phase IIb trial with SPN-810, which included 121 patients, showed that there was no difference in weight gain between patients treated with SPN-810 and placebo. Although initially we are developing SPN-810 as a novel treatment for IA in patients who have ADHD, if we are successful in demonstrating the effectiveness of SPN-810 in ADHD, we may then develop the product candidate for the treatment of other indications that can exhibit IA, e.g., patients with IA in autism, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and some forms of dementia. In the aggregate, we believe the addressable market for SPN-810 is greater than $5.5 billion, including $3.0 billion in ADHD, $1.5 billion in autism and $1.0 billion in bipolar disorder. 

We are developing an intellectual property position around the novel synthesis process for this product candidate, its novel use in IA, and novel formulations. Patents, if issued, from the applications could expire from 2029 to 2033. We have one patent issued in each of the U.S., Mexico and Australia markets, covering modified release formulations of molindone. In another family, covering the novel process of synthesis of the active ingredient, we have one patent issued in the U.S. In a third family, covering use of molindone in treating IA, we have one patent issued in Japan. We own all of the pending applications. 

SPN-810 Development Program 

In 2012, we completed a Phase IIb multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in the United States in pediatric subjects 6 to 12 years of age diagnosed with ADHD and IA that is not controlled by optimal stimulant and behavioral therapy. The primary objective of the study was to 

assess the effect of SPN-810 in reducing IA as measured by the Retrospective-Modified Overt Aggression Scale (R-MOAS) after at least three weeks of treatment. Secondary endpoints included the rate of remission of IA and measurement of the effectiveness of SPN-810 on Clinical Global Impression (CGI) and ADHD scales as well as evaluation of the safety and tolerability of the drug. Patients who completed the study were offered the opportunity to continue into an open-label phase of six months duration. 

Analysis of treatment comparison was performed using both parametric and non-parametric statistical methods. The parametric method assumes that data are normally distributed. Under this method, mean results of each treatment group at the end of three weeks of treatment were compared to baseline in R-MOAS score for each of the four dose groups (high, medium, low and placebo) using the t-test. The non-parametric method does not assume that data are normally distributed. Under this method, the median results of the change from baseline at the end of three weeks of treatment in R-MOAS were computed for each of the four dose groups (high, medium, low and placebo). These are compared using the Wilcoxon Rank-sum test. Statistical analyses were performed to compare the median of each of the treatment groups: high, medium, low, with placebo at the end of 3 weeks of treatment using change from baseline to visit 10 in R-MOAS score as outcome variable. There was a statistically significant difference between the low dose and placebo (p=0.031) and also between the medium dose and placebo (p=0.024) at the a =0.05 level. There was no statistically significant difference between the high dose and placebo. Both the medium dose and low dose are superior to placebo. These results convinced us that both low and medium doses were effective, and this range of doses will be further evaluated in Phase III clinical trials. 

A secondary efficacy variable was the proportion of children whose impulsive aggressive behavior remitted, with remission defined as R-MOAS &#163; 10 at the end of the study. Low and medium doses of SPN-810 showed statistically significant results versus placebo, with percent of patients who experienced remission of impulsive aggressive behavior of 51.9% (p=0.009) and 40.0% (p=0.043), respectively. 

The CGI results (Severity and Improvement) are consistent with the findings for the R-MOAS, in that notable improvement (reduction in severity) occurred primarily in the low dose and medium dose groups. Scores on SNAP-IV Hyperactivity and Impulsivity items did not exhibit statistically significant differences across treatment groups, indicating that our efficacy against IA was specific, rather than being efficacious against the underlying ADHD. Numerical trends in SNAP-IV Oppositional Defiant Disorder scores, while not always significant, consistently favored the low dose and medium dose groups over placebo. 

SPN-810 was well tolerated throughout the study across all doses. Sedation was the most frequently reported adverse reaction, with two subjects (7%) reporting this event in each of the four treatment groups including the placebo group. The next most frequently reported adverse reaction was increased appetite with two subjects (7%) reporting this event in each of the three active treatment groups and one subject (3%) in the placebo group. The two serious adverse events (AEs) that occurred were not drug-related. One patient in the low dose arm and two patients in the medium dose arm had severe AEs that were considered either possibly or definitely related to the drug. Six patients in total discontinued the study because of AEs in the active treatment arms: one in low dose; two in medium dose; and three in high dose. AEs requiring dose reduction were infrequent. 

The frequency of AEs associated with extra-pyramidal symptoms was also low and the events were reversible. The data are too sparse to evaluate dose-related aspects of these reports, thus no clear dose-response relationship is evident. SPN-810 exhibited a very good safety and tolerability profile, with low incidence of AEs, and no unexpected, life threatening, or dose-limiting safety issues. 

SPN-812 (viloxazine hydrochloride) 

We are developing SPN-812 as a novel non-stimulant for the treatment of ADHD. A Phase IIa trial, completed in 2011, showed that SPN-812 was effective in treating ADHD in adults. 

In the second quarter of 2014, we initiated and completed a pharmacokinetic study for extended release formulations for SPN-812. The study was successful and we have selected an extended release formulation that will be the basis of our future trial. The FDA accepted our Investigational New Drug application (IND) for the extended-release formulation and we initiated a Phase IIb trial during the fourth quarter of 2015. We anticipate patient dosing in the first quarter of 2016. 

ADHD affects 6% to 9% of all school-age children and 3% to 5% of all adults. As a non-stimulant, SPN-812 has the potential to address a $2.5 billion market opportunity. Current non-stimulant treatments for ADHD have achieved peak product sales of approximately $700 million each. SPN-812, a norepinepherine reuptake inhibitor, would provide an additional option to the few non-stimulant therapies currently available. We believe that SPN-812 could be more effective than other non-stimulant therapies due to its different pharmacological profile. 

In addition, due to its demonstrated efficacy as an anti-depressant, SPN-812, if studied in that specific patient population and shown to be effective, may exhibit increased benefit in up to an estimated 40% of ADHD patients who also suffer from major depression(4). 

We expect SPN-812, if approved, to have five year market exclusivity given its new chemical entity (NCE) status in the U.S. 

We are developing an intellectual property position around the novel synthesis process for this product candidate, its novel use in ADHD and its novel delivery with extended release. 

Our SPN-812 product candidate has three families of pending U.S. non-provisional and foreign counterpart patent applications. Patents, if issued, from the applications could expire from 2029 to 2033. We have one patent issued in Europe and one in Canada in one of these families, covering a method of treating ADHD using viloxazine hydrochloride. In another family, covering the novel process of synthesis, we have one patent issued each in Europe, Mexico, and Australia. We own all of the pending applications. 

SPN-812 Development Program 

We completed a proof-of-concept Phase IIa U.S. clinical trial of SPN-812 in adults for the treatment of ADHD in 2011. The trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in 52 adults with a current diagnosis of ADHD (26 subjects per treatment group). Patients received treatment three times a day for a one-week titration followed by five weeks of maintenance therapy. 

In this trial, SPN-812 was well tolerated and demonstrated a statistically significant improvement over placebo as a treatment for ADHD. The trial met the primary endpoints of safety and tolerability, and showed statistically significant median reduction versus placebo in both investigator-rated and patient-rated ADHD symptom scores. 

Secondary endpoints of efficacy were measured by: (1) Total ADHD Symptom Score on the Conners' Adult ADHD Rating Scale (CAARS, a commonly-used measurement for ADHD in adults) as rated by each of the investigators, (2) the same scale as rated by each patient, and (3) the Clinical Global Improvement (CGI-I) score. When compared to baseline, patients receiving SPN-812 achieved overall 

(4) Biederman, J., New Insights Into the Comorbidity Between ADHD and Major Depression in Adolescent and Young Adult Females , published in April 2008 in Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Report of CME Institute of Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc., published in August 2008 in Journal of Clinical Psychiatry . 12 

significant median reductions in scores for both the investigator-rated CAARS (11.5 vs. 6.0 points for placebo, p=0.0414) and in self-rated CAARS (10.5 vs. 1.0 point for placebo, p=0.0349). Although not statistically significant, a trend was observed for greater improvement in CGI-I scores in the SPN-812 treated group compared to placebo. 

We initiated a Phase IIb clinical trial for SPN-812 in the fourth quarter of 2015. We anticipate patient dosing in the first quarter of 2016. 

SPN-809 (viloxazine hydrochloride) 

SPN-809 is a novel once-daily product candidate for the treatment of depression. SPN-809 is based on the same active ingredient as SPN-812. We currently have an open investigational new drug application (IND) for SPN-809 as a treatment of depression, the indication for which the active ingredient in SPN-809 was approved and marketed in Europe for many years, but was never approved in the U.S.. 

Because SPN-809 contains the same active ingredient as SPN-812, we expect that many of our activities related to the development of SPN-812 will also benefit the development of SPN-809. 

ADHD Competition 

Competition in the U.S. ADHD market has increased with the commercial launch of several products in recent years, including the launch of generic versions of branded drugs, such as Adderall XR. Shire plc is one of the leaders in the U.S. ADHD market with three products: Vyvanse, a stimulant prodrug product launched in 2007; Intuniv, a non-stimulant treatment launched in November 2009, and Adderall XR, an extended release stimulant treatment designed to provide once-daily dosing. Other stimulant products for the treatment of ADHD in the U.S. market include the following once-daily formulations: Concerta, Metadate CD, Ritalin LA, Focalin XR, Daytrana, and Adzenys XR-ODT. Other non-stimulants are Strattera and Kapvay. We are also aware of clinical development efforts by several other organizations including Alcobra, Sunovion, Neos Therapeutics, and Neurovance to develop additional treatment options for ADHD. 

Our Proprietary Technology Platforms 

We have a successful track record of developing novel products by applying proprietary technologies to known drugs to improve existing therapies and enable the treatment of new indications. Our key proprietary technology platforms include Microtrol, Solutrol and EnSoTrol. These technologies create novel customized product profiles designed to meet efficacy needs, more convenient and less frequent dosing, enhanced patient compliance, and improved tolerability in certain specific applications. We have employed our technologies in the development of a total of nine products that are currently on the market, including Trokendi XR and Oxtellar XR along with the other seven products being marketed by companies for whom we have developed sustained release formulations. Trokendi XR uses the Microtrol multiparticulate delivery platform and Oxtellar XR uses the Solutrol matrix delivery platform. EnSoTrol was utilized to develop Orenitram, an oral formulation of treprostinil diethanolamine, or treprostinil, which was launched by United Therapeutics Corporation in 2014. 

Intellectual Property and Exclusivity 

Overview 

We have been building and continue to build our intellectual property portfolio relating to our products and product candidates, including Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR. We seek patent protection, where appropriate, in the United States and internationally for our products and product candidates. Our policy is to protect our innovations and proprietary products by, among other things, filing patent applications in the United States and abroad (including Europe, Canada and other countries when 

appropriate). We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. We cannot be sure that patents will be granted with respect to any of our pending patent applications or with respect to any patent applications filed by us in the future, nor can we be sure that any of our existing patents or any patents that may be granted to us in the future will be commercially useful in protecting our technology. 

Our success will depend significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for the technologies and products we consider important to our business, defend our patents, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate our business without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. 

We have established and continue to build proprietary positions for Oxtellar XR, Trokendi XR, our pipeline product candidates and technologies in the United States and abroad. 

Patents for both Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR have received numerous Paragraph IV Notice Letters and we have filed claims for infringement of our patents against the third-parties. As of February 5, 2016, litigation with respect to Oxtellar XR was resolved in favor of the Company pending appeal when a federal court ruled that three of our patents were found to be valid, and that Actavis infringed two of these three patents. For more information, please see Item 3&#151;Legal Proceedings contained within this Form 10-K. 

Patent Portfolio 

Our extended release oxcarbazepine patent portfolio currently includes eight U.S. patents, five of which cover Oxtellar XR. We have also obtained two patents for extended release oxcarbazepine in Europe and one patent each in Canada, Japan, Australia, China, and Mexico. In addition, we have certain pending U.S. patent applications that cover various extended release formulations containing oxcarbazepine. The five issued U.S. patents covering Oxtellar XR will expire no earlier than 2027. We own all of the issued patents and the pending applications. 

In addition to the patents and patent applications relating to Oxtellar XR, we currently have six U.S. patents that cover Trokendi XR. We have one patent issued each in Mexico, Australia, Japan and Canada for extended release topiramate. We have two patents issued in Europe for extended release topiramate and have a pending U.S. patent application that covers extended release formulations containing topiramate. The six issued U.S. patents covering Trokendi XR will expire no earlier than 2027. We own all of the issued patents and pending applications. 

Our patent portfolio also contains patent applications relating to our other pipeline products. We have four families of pending U.S. non-provisional and foreign counterpart patent applications relating to our SPN-810 product candidate. Patents, if issued, could have terms expiring from 2029 to 2033. We have one patent issued each in the U.S., Mexico and Australia in one of these families, covering modified release formulations of molindone. In another family, covering a process for preparing molindone, we have one patent issued in the U.S. In a third family, covering use of molindone in treating IA, we have one patent issued in Japan. We own all of the pending applications. 

With regard to our SPN-812 product candidate, we have three families of pending U.S. non-provisional and foreign counterpart patent applications. Patents, if issued, from the applications could expire from 2029 to 2033. We have one patent each issued in Europe and Canada in one of these families, covering a method of treating ADHD using viloxazine. In another family, covering the novel process of synthesis, we have one patent issued each in Europe, Mexico, and Australia. We own all of the issued patents and the pending applications. 

The United States patent system permits the filing of provisional and non-provisional patent applications. A non-provisional patent application is examined by the United States Patent and 

Trademark Office (USPTO), and can mature into a patent once the USPTO determines that the claimed invention meets the standards for patentability. A provisional patent application is not examined for patentability, and automatically expires 12 months after its filing date. As a result, a provisional patent application cannot mature into a patent. The requirements for filing a provisional patent application are not as strict as those for filing a non-provisional patent application. Provisional applications are often used, among other things, to establish an early filing date for a subsequent non-provisional patent application. The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries in which we file, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest date of filing a non-provisional patent application. In the U.S., a patent's term may be lengthened by patent term adjustment (PTA), which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the USPTO in granting a patent. In view of a recent court decision, the USPTO is under greater scrutiny regarding its calculations because the USPTO erred in calculating the PTA, which resulted in denying the patentee a portion of the patent term to which it was entitled. Alternatively, a patent's term may be shortened if a patent is terminally disclaimed over another patent. 

In evaluating the patentability of a claimed invention, the filing date of a non-provisional patent application is used by the USPTO to determine what information is prior art. If certain requirements are satisfied, a non-provisional patent application can claim the benefit of the filing date of an earlier filed provisional patent application. As a result, the filing date accorded by the provisional patent application may supersede information that otherwise could preclude the patentability of an invention. 

The term of a patent that covers an FDA-approved drug may also be eligible for patent term extension (PTE) which permits patent term restoration as compensation for the patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, permits a PTE of up to five years beyond the expiration of the patent. The length of the PTE is related to the length of time the drug is under regulatory review. Patent extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended. Similar provisions are available in Europe and other foreign jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if and when our pharmaceutical products receive FDA or other regulatory approval, we may be able to apply for PTEs on patents covering those products. Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA approval of our SPN-810 and SPN-812 product candidates and issuance of a U.S. patent we may obtain a U.S. patent that is eligible for limited patent term restoration. 

Other Intellectual Property Rights 

We seek trademark protection in the U.S. and internationally where available and when appropriate. We have filed for trademark protection for several marks, which we use in connection with our pharmaceutical research and development collaborations as well as products. We are the owner of various United States federal trademark registrations (&#174;) and registration applications (&#153;), including the following marks referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to applicable U.S. intellectual property laws: "Supernus&#174;," "Microtrol&#174;," "Solutrol&#174;," "Trokendi XR&#174;," "Oxtellar XR&#174;," and the registered Supernus Pharmaceuticals logo. 

From time to time, we may find it necessary or prudent to obtain licenses from third party intellectual property holders. Where licenses are readily available at reasonable cost, such licenses are considered a normal cost of doing business. In other instances, however, we may use the results of freedom-to-operate inquiries and internal analyses to guide our early-stage research away from areas where we are likely to encounter obstacles in the form of third party intellectual property. For example, where a third party holds relevant intellectual property and is a direct competitor, a license might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or available at all. We strive to identify potential third 

party intellectual property issues in the early stages of our research programs, in order to minimize the cost and disruption of resolving such issues. 

To protect our competitive position, it may be necessary to enforce our patent rights through litigation against infringing third parties. We presently have cases pending against four parties to enforce our patent rights. See Item 3&#151;Legal Proceedings. Litigation to enforce our own patent rights is subject to uncertainties that cannot be quantified in advance. In an adverse outcome in litigation, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or using certain aspects of our technology platforms as a result of patent infringement claims asserted against us. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, litigation involving our patents carries the risk that one or more of our patents will be held invalid (in whole or in part, on a claim-by-claim basis) or held unenforceable. Such an adverse court ruling could allow third parties to commercialize products or use technologies that are similar to ours, and then compete directly with us, without payment to us. See "Risk Factors&#151;If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it could be costly and time consuming to defend such a suit. An unfavorable outcome in that litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business." 

In-Licensing Arrangements 

Afecta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

We have entered into two license agreements with Afecta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Afecta) pursuant to which we obtained an exclusive option to evaluate Afecta's CNS pipeline and to obtain exclusive worldwide rights to selected product candidates, including an exclusive license to SPN-810. We may pay up to $300,000 upon the achievement of certain milestones. If a product candidate is successfully developed and commercialized, we will be obligated to pay royalties to Afecta based on worldwide net product sales in the low-single digits. 

Rune HealthCare Limited 

In June 2006, we entered into a purchase and sale agreement with Rune HealthCare Limited (Rune) where we obtained the exclusive worldwide rights to a product concept from Rune for SPN-809. If we receive approval to market and sell any products covered by the agreement, we will be obligated to pay royalties to Rune based on net sales worldwide in the low-single digits. 

Confidential Information and Inventions Assignment Agreements 

We require our employees, temporary employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment, consulting or collaborative relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known during the course of the relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. The agreements provide that all inventions resulting from work performed for us or relating to our business and conceived or completed by the individual during employment or assignment, as applicable, shall be our exclusive property to the extent permitted by applicable law. 

We seek to protect our products, product candidates and our technologies through a combination of patents, trade secrets, proprietary know-how, FDA exclusivity and contractual restrictions on disclosure. 

Government Regulation 

Product Approval 

Government authorities in the United States at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, 

marketing, export and import of products such as those we are developing. Our product candidates must receive final approval from the FDA before they may be marketed legally in the U.S. 

U.S. Drug Development Process 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and through implementation of regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and ensuring compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process, or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include the FDA's refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, product detention, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. 

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the U.S. generally involves the following: 

&#149; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies according to Good Laboratory Practices regulations; &#149; submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#149; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials according to Good Clinical Practices (GCP) to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use; &#149; submission to the FDA of an NDA for a new drug; &#149; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the clinical study sites and/or manufacturing facility or facilities at which the drug is produced to assess compliance with current Good Clinical Practices and Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP); and &#149; FDA review and approval of the NDA. The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources and we cannot be certain that any approvals for our product candidates will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Our total research and development expense was approximately $29.1 million and $19.6 million for each of 2015 and 2014, respectively. In order to continue the progress of our product candidates, significant increases in these expenditures will be required. 

Once a suitable product candidate is successfully created, a preliminary development strategy is determined. Usually, an IND is opened with adequate preclinical and clinical trial material manufacturing supportive information to permit initiation of the first proposed clinical trial. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA places the clinical trial on a clinical hold within that 30-day time period. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. Clinical holds also may be imposed by the FDA at any time before or during trials due to safety concerns or non-compliance. 

All clinical trials must be conducted under the supervision of one or more qualified investigators in accordance with GCP regulations. These regulations include the requirement that all research subjects provide informed consent. Further, an institutional review board (IRB) must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at any institution. An IRB considers, among other things, whether the risks to individuals participating in the trials are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the information regarding the clinical trial and the consent form that must be provided to each clinical trial subject or his or her legal representative and must monitor the clinical trial until completed. 

Once an IND is in effect, each new clinical protocol and any amendments to the protocol must be submitted with the IND for FDA review, and to the IRBs for approval. Protocols detail, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria, and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety. 

Human clinical trials for product candidates are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: 

&#149; Phase I. The product is initially introduced into healthy human subjects and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases, especially when the product may be too inherently toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing may be conducted in patients. &#149; Phase II. Phase II trials involve investigations in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage and schedule. &#149; Phase III. In Phase III, clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. These trials are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit ratio of the product and provide an adequate basis for regulatory approval and product labeling. Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the product candidate and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the product candidate and, among other things, the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

U.S. Review and Approval Processes 

The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the drug, proposed labeling and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA for a new drug, requesting approval to market the product. 

NDAs are either standard 505(b)(1) or 505(b)(2) applications. For a standard application, all pertinent information must be part of the regulatory submission under that NDA number. For a 505(b)(2) application, the FDA permits the submission of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from clinical trials not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. The FDA interprets Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA to permit the applicant to rely upon the FDA's previous findings of safety and effectiveness for an approved product. The FDA requires submission of information needed to support any changes to a previously approved drug, such as published data or new studies conducted by the applicant, including bioavailability or bioequivalence studies, or clinical trials demonstrating safety and effectiveness. The FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all or some of the label indications for which the referenced product has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the Section 505(b)(2) applicant. 

The submission of an NDA is subject to the payment of a substantial user fee; a waiver of such fee may be obtained under certain limited circumstances. 

In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, which was reauthorized under the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012, an NDA must contain, a priori , or propose clinical work that supports the product's use in all relevant pediatric subpopulations. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of data or full or partial waivers of the data requirements. Pursuant to the FDA's approval of Oxtellar XR, we must conduct four pediatric post-marketing studies; however, the FDA granted a waiver for the pediatric study requirements for ages birth to one month and a deferral for submission of post-marketing assessments for children one month to six years of age. Pursuant to the FDA's approval of Trokendi XR, the FDA granted a deferral for submission of post-marketing pediatric studies in the following categories: (1) adjunctive therapy in partial onset seizures (POS) for children one month to less than six years of age, (2) initial monotherapy in POS and primary generalized tonic-clonic (PGTC) for children two years to less than ten years of age, and (3) adjunctive therapy in PGTC and adjunctive therapy in Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome from two years to less than six years of age. We are moving forward with a revised pediatric plan, in consultation with the FDA. 

Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications 

To the extent that a Section 505(b)(2) NDA relies on clinical trials conducted for a previously approved drug product or the FDA's prior findings of safety and effectiveness for a previously approved drug product, the Section 505(b)(2) applicant must submit patent certifications in its Section 505(b)(2) application with respect to any patents for the approved product on which the application relies that are listed in the FDA's publication, Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly referred to as the Orange Book. Specifically, the applicant must certify for each listed patent that (1) the required patent information has not been filed; (2) the listed patent has expired; (3) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is not sought until after patent expiration; or (4) the listed patent is invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the proposed new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the previously approved product's listed patent or that such patent is invalid or unenforceable is known as a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge one or more listed patents through a Paragraph IV certification, the FDA will not approve the Section 505(b)(2) NDA application until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. Further, the FDA will also not approve, as applicable, a Section 505(b)(2) NDA application until any non-patent exclusivity, such as, for example, five-year exclusivity for obtaining approval of an NCE, three year exclusivity for an approval based on new clinical trials, or pediatric exclusivity, listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product, has expired. 

A section 505(b)(2) NDA applicant must send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the owner of the referenced NDA for the previously approved product and relevant patent holders within 20 days after the Section 505(b)(2) NDA has been accepted for filing by the FDA. If the relevant patent holder elects to initiate litigation, the Section 505(b)(2) applicant may invest a significant amount of time and expense in the development of its product only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before its product may be commercialized. Alternatively, if the NDA applicant or relevant patent holder does not file a patent infringement lawsuit within the specified 45 day period, the FDA may approve the Section 505(b)(2) application at any time. 

Notwithstanding the approval of many products by the FDA pursuant to Section 505(b)(2) over the last few years, some pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If the FDA changes its interpretation of Section 505(b)(2), or if the FDA's interpretation is successfully challenged in court, this could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any Section 505(b)(2) NDA that we submit. 

In the NDA submissions for our product candidates, we intend to follow the 505(b)(2) development pathway when appropriate. 

FDA Review of New Drug Applications 

The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted to ensure that they are sufficiently complete for substantive review before it accepts them for filing. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the NDA must be re-submitted with the additional information. The re-submitted application also is subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is cGMP-compliant to assure and preserve the product's identity, strength, quality and purity. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. An advisory committee is a panel of independent experts who provide advice and recommendations when requested by the FDA on matters of importance that come before the agency. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee. 

The approval process is lengthy and difficult and the FDA may refuse to approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical data or other data and information. Even if such data and information are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data obtained from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than we interpret the same data. The FDA will issue a complete response letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA in its present form. The complete response letter usually describes all of the specific deficiencies that the FDA identified in the NDA. The deficiencies identified may be minor, for example, requiring labeling changes, or major, for example, requiring additional clinical trials. Additionally, the complete response letter may include recommended actions that the applicant might take to place the application in a condition for approval. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, withdraw the application, or then request an opportunity for a hearing. 

If a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling. In addition, the FDA may require Phase IV testing which involves clinical trials designed to further assess a drug's safety and effectiveness after NDA approval and may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety of approved products that have been commercialized. 

Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity 

Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA marketing approval of our product candidates, some of our U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent term restoration of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product's approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug is eligible for the extension, and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent and within sixty days of approval of the drug. The 

USPTO, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration. 

Market exclusivity provisions under the FDCA can also delay the submission or the approval of certain applications. The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for an NCE. A drug is an NCE if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) or active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the therapeutic action of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA) or a Section 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another version of such drug where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. As an alternative to submission via 505(b)(2) approval, an applicant may choose to submit a full Section 505(b)(1) NDA, but such an NDA applicant would be required to conduct its own preclinical and adequate, well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. Further, a Section 505(b)(2) application may be submitted after four years if it contains a Paragraph IV certification. 

The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, Section 505(b)(2) NDA or supplement to an existing NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application. Such clinical trials may, for example, support new indications, dosages, routes of administration or strengths of an existing drug, or for a new use, if new clinical investigations that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are determined by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application. This exclusivity, sometimes referred to as clinical investigation exclusivity, prevents the FDA from approving an application under Section 505(b)(2) for the same conditions of use associated with the new clinical investigations before the expiration of three years from the date of approval. Such three-year exclusivity, however, would not prevent the approval of another application if the applicant submits a Section 505(b)(1) NDA and has conducted its own adequate, well-controlled clinical trials demonstrating safety and efficacy, nor would it prevent approval of a generic product or Section 505(b)(2) product that did not incorporate the exclusivity-protected changes of the approved drug product. The FDCA, FDA regulations and other applicable regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug to facilitate the approval of an ANDA or other application for generic substitutes. 

Pediatric exclusivity is another type of exclusivity in the United States. Pediatric exclusivity, if granted, provides an additional six months of exclusivity to be attached to any existing exclusivity (e.g., three or five year exclusivity) or patent protection for a drug. This six month exclusivity, which runs from the end of other exclusivity protection or patent delay, may be granted based on the voluntary completion of a pediatric trial in accordance with an FDA-issued "Written Request" for such a trial. The current pediatric exclusivity provision was reauthorized in September 2007. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Any drugs for which we receive FDA approval are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting of AEs with the product, providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information, product sampling and distribution requirements, complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements and complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements. In September 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-marketing authority, including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion and other types of information on products that are placed on the market. Drugs may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance 

with the provisions of the approved label. Further, manufacturers of drugs must continue to comply with cGMP requirements, which are extensive and require considerable time, resources and ongoing investment to ensure compliance. In addition, certain changes to the manufacturing process generally require prior FDA approval before being implemented and other types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications and additional labeling claims, are also subject to further FDA review and approval. 

Drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacturing and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws. The cGMP requirements apply to all stages of the manufacturing process, including the production, processing, sterilization, packaging, labeling, storage and shipment of the drug. Manufacturers must establish validated systems to ensure that products meet specifications and regulatory standards, and test each product batch or lot prior to its release. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical quantities of our product candidates. Future FDA and state inspections may identify compliance issues at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution or may require substantial resources to correct. 

The FDA may withdraw a product approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, the failure to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements may result in administrative or judicial actions, such as fines, warning letters, holds on clinical trials, product recalls or seizures, product detention or refusal to permit the import or export of products, refusal to approve pending applications or supplements, restrictions on marketing or manufacturing, injunctions or civil or criminal penalties. 

From time to time, legislation is drafted, introduced and passed by the United States Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. For example, in July 2012, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act was enacted, expanding drug supply chain requirements and strengthening FDA's response to drug shortages, among other things. In addition to new legislation, the FDA regulations and policies are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether further legislative or FDA regulation or policy changes will be enacted or implemented and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. 

Foreign Regulation 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our product candidates to the extent we choose to clinically evaluate or sell any products outside of the United States. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. As in the United States, post-approval regulatory requirements, such as those regarding product manufacture, marketing, or distribution would apply to any product that is approved outside the United States. 

Third-Party Payor Coverage and Reimbursement 

In both the United States and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize our product and product candidates successfully, and to attract commercialization partners for our product and product candidates, depends in significant part on the availability of adequate financial coverage and reimbursement from third party payors, including, in the United States, governmental payors such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations, and private health insurers. Medicare is a federally funded program managed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), through local fiscal intermediaries and carriers that administer coverage and reimbursement for certain healthcare items and services furnished to the elderly and disabled. Medicaid is an insurance program for certain categories of patients whose income and assets fall below state defined levels and who are otherwise uninsured that is both federally and state funded and managed by each state. The federal government sets general guidelines for Medicaid and each state creates specific regulations that govern its individual program. Each payor has its own process and standards for determining whether it will cover and reimburse a procedure or particular product. Private payors often rely on the lead of the governmental payors in rendering coverage and reimbursement determinations. Therefore, achieving favorable CMS coverage and reimbursement is usually a significant gating issue for successful introduction of a new product. The competitive position of some of our products will depend, in part, upon the extent of coverage and adequate reimbursement for such products and for the procedures in which such products are used. Prices at which we or our customers seek reimbursement for our product candidates can be subject to challenge, reduction or denial by the government and other payors. 

The United States Congress and state legislatures may, from time to time, propose and adopt initiatives aimed at cost containment, which could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. For example, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the HealthCare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we refer to collectively as the HealthCare Reform Law, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the healthcare industry and impose additional healthcare policy reforms. Effective October 1, 2010, the HealthCare Reform Law revises the definition of "average manufacturer price" for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states once the provision is effective. Further, since 2011, the HealthCare Reform Law imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been enacted, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare practitioners. We will not know the full effects of the HealthCare Reform Law until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law. Although it is too early to determine the effect of the HealthCare Reform Law, the new law appears likely to continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. Moreover, in the coming years, additional changes could be made to governmental healthcare programs that could significantly impact the success of our product candidates. 

The cost of pharmaceuticals continues to generate substantial governmental and third party payor interest. We expect that the pharmaceutical industry will experience pricing pressures due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of managed care organizations and additional legislative proposals. Indeed, several candidates for election as President of the United States have publicly stated that the prices of pharmaceutical drugs are too high and that, if elected, will take efforts to enact policies to reduce and/or control these prices. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by current and future healthcare reforms. 

Some third party payors also require pre-approval of coverage for new or innovative devices or drug therapies before they will reimburse healthcare providers that use such therapies. While we cannot 

predict whether any proposed cost-containment measures will be adopted or otherwise implemented in the future, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain adequate prices for our product candidates and operate profitably. 

Other HealthCare Laws and Compliance Requirements 

In the United States, our activities are potentially subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including CMS, other divisions of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (e.g., the Office of Inspector General), the United States Department of Justice and individual United States Attorney offices within the Department of Justice, and state and local governments. These regulations include: 

&#149; the federal healthcare program anti-kickback law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; &#149; federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other government reimbursement programs that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us which provide coding and billing advice to customers; &#149; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; &#149; the federal transparency requirements under the HealthCare Reform Law and similar state law provisions require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies to report to the Department of Health and Human Services information related to physician payments and other transfers of value and physician ownership and investment interests; &#149; the FDCA, which among other things, strictly regulates drug product marketing, prohibits manufacturers from marketing drug products for off-label use and regulates the distribution of drug samples; and &#149; state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by federal laws, thus complicating compliance efforts. Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 344 full-time employees. seventy-three employees are engaged in research and development activities and 271 employees are engaged in selling, general and administrative activities. We consider relations with our employees to be good. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. 

