 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Overview 

SWK Holdings Corporation (the &#8220;Company&#8221;, &#8220;SWK&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;we&#8221;) incorporated in July 1996 in California and reincorporated in Delaware in September 1999. In July 2012, we commenced our corporate strategy of building a specialty finance and asset management business. Our strategy is to be a leading healthcare capital provider by offering sophisticated, customized financing solutions to a broad range of life science companies, institutions and inventors. Our focus is on monetizing cash flow streams derived from commercial-stage products and related intellectual property through royalty purchases and financings, as well as through the creation of synthetic revenue interests in commercialized products. We are deploying our assets to earn interest, fees, and other income pursuant to this strategy, and we continue to identify and review financing and similar opportunities on an ongoing basis. In addition, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, SWK Advisors LLC, we provide non-discretionary investment advisory services to institutional clients in separately managed accounts to similarly invest in life science finance. SWK Advisors LLC is registered as an investment advisor with the Texas State Securities Board. We intend to fund transactions through our own working capital, as well as by building our asset management business by raising additional third party capital to be invested alongside our capital.

We fill a niche that we believe is underserved in the sub-$50 million transaction size. Since many of our competitors that provide longer term, royalty-related financing options have much greater financial resources than us, they tend not to focus on transaction sizes below $50 million as it is generally inefficient for them to do so. In addition, we do not believe that a sufficient number of other companies offer similar types of long-term financing options to fill the demand of the sub-$50 million market. As such, we believe we face less competition from such longer term, royalty investors in transactions that are less than $50 million.

We evaluate and invest in a broad range of healthcare related companies and products with innovative intellectual property, including the biotechnology, medical device, medical diagnostics and related tools, animal health and pharmaceutical industries (together &#8220;life science&#8221;) and to tailor our financial solutions to the needs of our business partners. Our business partners are primarily engaged in selling products that directly or indirectly cure diseases and/or improve people&#8217;s or animals&#8217; wellness, or they receive royalties paid on the sales of such products. For example, our biotechnology and pharmaceutical business partners manufacture medication that directly treat disease states, whereas our life science tools partners sell a wide variety of research instrumentation to help other companies conduct research into disease states.

Our investment objective is to maximize our portfolio total return and thus increase our net income and book value by generating income from three sources:

1. primarily owning or financing through debt investments, royalties or revenue interests generated by the sales of life science products and related intellectual property; 2. receiving interest and other income by advancing capital in the form of secured debt to companies in the life science sector; and 3. to a lesser extent, realizing capital appreciation from equity-related investments in the life science sector. In our portfolio we seek to achieve attractive risk-adjusted current yields and opportunities with the potential for equity-like returns with protection that credit provides.

&#160; 1 &#160; 

&#160;

The majority of our transactions are structured similarly to factoring transactions whereby we provide capital in exchange for an interest in an existing revenue stream. We do not anticipate providing capital in situations prior to the commercialization of a product. The existing revenue stream can take several forms, but is most commonly either a royalty derived from the sales of a life science product (1) from the marketing efforts of a third party, such as a royalty paid to an inventor on the sales of a medicine, or (2) from the marketing efforts of a partner company, such as a medical device company that directly sells its own products. Our structured debt investments may include warrants or other features, giving us the potential to realize enhanced returns on a portion of our portfolio. Capital that we provide directly to our partners is generally used for growth and general working capital purposes, as well as for acquisitions or recapitalizations in select cases. We generally fund the full amount of transactions up to $20 million through our working capital. 

Our investment advisory agreements are currently non-discretionary and each client determines individually if it wants to participate in a transaction. Each account receives its pro rata allocation for a transaction based on which clients opt into a transaction, and each account receives its pro rata allocation of income produced by a transaction in which it participates. Clients pay us management and incentive fees according to a written investment advisory agreement, and we negotiate fees based on each client&#8217;s needs and the complexity of the client&#8217;s requirements. Fees paid by clients may differ depending upon the terms negotiated with each client and are paid directly by the client upon receipt of an invoice from us. We may seek to raise discretionary capital from similar investors in the future.

In circumstances where a transaction is greater than $20 million, we seek to syndicate amounts in excess of $20 million to our investment advisory clients. In addition, we may participate in transactions in excess of $20 million with investors other than our investment advisory clients. In those instances, we do not expect to earn investment advisory income from the participations of such investors.

We source our investment opportunities through a combination of our senior management&#8217;s proprietary relationships within the industry, outbound business development efforts and inbound inquiry from companies, institutions and inventors interested in learning about our capital financing alternatives. Our investment advisory clients generally do not originate investment opportunities for us.

&#160;

Tax Attributes 

We view our ability to carry forward our net operating losses, or NOLs, as an important and substantial asset. On January 26, 2006, in order to preserve stockholder value by protecting our ability to carry forward our NOLs, we entered into a rights agreement that provided for a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of our common stock. The purchase rights become exercisable after the acquisition or attempted acquisition of 4.9% or more of our outstanding common stock without the prior approval of our board of directors. On February 2, 2012, we amended and restated the rights agreement to extend the expiration date from February 3, 2012 to February 3, 2015. On August 18, 2014, we amended the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement to designate Carlson Capital, L.P. and its affiliates (&#8220;Carlson&#8221;) as Exempt Persons (as defined in the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement) unless they own more than 76% of the outstanding shares of our common stock in the aggregate.

On August 18, 2014, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the &#8220;Purchase Agreement&#8221;) with Carlson. Upon initial close, we issued to Double Black Diamond Offshore Ltd. (&#8220;Double Black Diamond&#8221;) and Black Diamond Offshore Limited (collectively, &#8220;Stockholder&#8221;), funds associated with Carlson, 5,590,800 shares of our Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $76.6 million in cash. Then upon the completion of the Rights Offering, pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we issued to the Stockholder 1,744,053 shares of our Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $23.9 million paid in cash, so that Carlson has a 69% voting ownership interest in the Company.

Competition 

Our markets are very competitive. We face competition in the pursuit of outside investors, investment management clients and opportunities to deploy our capital in attractive healthcare related companies. Our primary competitors provide financing to prospective companies and include non-bank financial institutions, federal or state chartered banks, venture debt funds, venture capital funds, private equity funds, pharmaceutical royalty and other investment funds, business development companies and investment banks. Many of these entities have greater financial and managerial resources than we have. Some of these competitors may also have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us, which may create a competitive disadvantage for us. As a result, we tend not to compete on price, but instead focus on our industry experience, flexible financing options and speed to evaluate and complete a transaction. In addition, since many of our competitors that provide longer term, royalty-related financing options have much greater financial resources than us, they tend not to focus on transaction sizes below $50 million as it is generally inefficient for them to do so. As such, we believe we face less competition from such longer term, royalty investors in transactions that are less than $50 million.

&#160; 2 &#160; 

&#160;

For additional information concerning the competitive risks we face, see &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Related to our Business and Structure&#8212;We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities.&#8221;

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 we had three full-time employees and one part-time employee. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we consider our employee relations to be good. 

Additional Information 

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8217;&#8217;), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Readers may read and copy any document that the Company files at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, U.S.A. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from the SEC&#8217;s internet site at http://www.sec.gov.

Our internet site is http://www.swkhold.com. We will make available free of charge through our website in the &#8220;Investor Relations &#8211; SEC Filings&#8221; section our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also posted on our website in the &#8220;Investor Relations &#8212; Corporate Governance&#8221; section are charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance Committee as well as our Code of Ethics and Insider Trading Policy governing our directors, officers and employees. Information on or accessible through our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this report.

