 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Theravance Biopharma, Inc. ("Theravance Biopharma") is a diversified biopharmaceutical company with the core purpose of creating medicines that make a difference in the lives of patients suffering from serious illness. 

Our pipeline of internally discovered product candidates includes potential best-in-class medicines to address the unmet needs of patients being treated for serious conditions primarily in the acute care setting. VIBATIV&#174; (telavancin), our first commercial product, is a once-daily dual-mechanism antibiotic approved in the U.S., Europe and certain other countries for certain difficult-to-treat infections. Revefenacin (TD-4208) is a long-acting muscarinic antagonist ("LAMA") being developed as a potential once-daily, nebulized treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ("COPD"). Our neprilysin ("NEP") inhibitor program is designed to develop selective NEP inhibitors for the treatment of a range of major cardiovascular and renal diseases, including acute and chronic heart failure, hypertension and chronic kidney diseases such as diabetic nephropathy. Our research efforts are focused in the areas of inflammation and immunology, with the goal of designing medicines that provide targeted drug delivery to tissues in the lung and gastrointestinal tract in order to maximize patient benefit and minimize risk. The first program to emerge from this research is designed to 

develop GI-targeted pan-Janus kinases ("JAK") inhibitors for the treatment of a range of inflammatory intestinal diseases. 

In addition, we have an economic interest in future payments that may be made by Glaxo Group Limited or one of its affiliates ("GSK") pursuant to its agreements with Innoviva, Inc. ("Innoviva") (known as Theravance, Inc. prior to January 7, 2016) relating to certain drug development programs, including the Closed Triple (the combination of fluticasone furoate, umeclidinium, and vilanterol). 

On June 1, 2014, Innoviva separated its late-stage respiratory assets partnered with GSK from its biopharmaceutical operations by transferring its discovery, development and commercialization operations (the "Biopharmaceutical Business") and contributing $393.0 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities into its then wholly-owned subsidiary Theravance Biopharma. On June 2, 2014, Innoviva made a pro rata dividend distribution to its stockholders of record on May 15, 2014 of one ordinary share of Theravance Biopharma for every three and one half shares of Innoviva common stock outstanding on the record date (the "Spin-Off"). The Spin-Off resulted in Theravance Biopharma operating as an independent, publicly-traded company. Prior to June 2, 2014, Innoviva operated the Biopharmaceutical Business. 

Theravance Biopharma was incorporated in the Cayman Islands in July 2013 under the name Theravance Biopharma, Inc. Our corporate address in the Cayman Islands is P.O. Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands and the principal office of our wholly-owned U.S. operating subsidiary Theravance Biopharma US, Inc., is 901 Gateway Boulevard, South San Francisco, California 94080. While Theravance Biopharma is incorporated under Cayman Island law, the Company became an Irish tax resident effective July 1, 2015. The address of our subsidiary, Theravance Biopharma Ireland, Ltd., is Fitzwilliam Hall, Fitzwilliam Place, Dublin 2 Ireland. 

2015 Highlights 

In 2015, we accomplished a number of key corporate goals. We initiated Phase 1 clinical studies for two potentially best-in-class programs: our Neprilysin ("NEP") inhibitor program for cardiovascular and renal diseases and our GI-targeted pan-Janus kinanse ("JAK") inhibitor program for inflammatory intestinal diseases. We initiated all three studies in the Phase 3 program for revefenacin (TD-4208) in COPD and established a strategic collaboration with Mylan Ireland Limited ("Mylan") to develop and commercialize nebulized revefenacin products for COPD and other respiratory diseases. We also continued to execute our commercial strategy for VIBATIV&#174; including the hiring and training of additional field personnel and initiating clinical studies which, if successfully completed, are designed to expand the product's existing label. 

Our Programs 

The table below summarizes the status of our approved product and our most advanced product candidates for internal development or co-development. Our research and development activities are concentrated primarily on four therapeutic areas&#151;infectious disease, respiratory, gastrointestinal disease and cardiovascular and renal disease&#151;and our commercial infrastructure is focused primarily on the acute care setting. The table also includes the status of the respiratory programs in which we have an economic interest and are being developed by GSK pursuant to agreements between Innoviva and GSK ("GSK-Partnered Respiratory Programs"). These programs consist of the Closed Triple program, the Inhaled Bifunctional Muscarinic Antagonist-Beta2 Agonist ("MABA") program and other future products that may be combined with Closed Triple or MABA. We have an economic interest in these programs through our interest in Theravance Respiratory Company, LLC ("TRC"), a limited liability company managed by Innoviva. The status of these programs reflects publically available information. 

* R-Pharm is conducting a Phase 3 clinical study of TD-1792 in complicated skin and soft tissues infections (cSSSI), caused by gram-positive bacteria with clinical sites in the Russian Federation and the country of Georgia. ** The information regarding the Closed Triple and the MABA programs are based solely upon publicly available information and may not reflect the most recent developments under the programs. Glossary of Defined Terms used in Table Above: 

CNS: Central Nervous System; 

COPD: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease; 

cSSSI: Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections; 

FF: Fluticasone Furoate; 

GI: Gastrointestinal; 

HABP/VABP: Hospital-Acquired and Ventilator-Associated Bacterial Pneumonia; 

HCV: Hepatitis C Virus; 

ICS: Inhaled Corticosteriod; 

MABA: Bifunctional Muscarinic Antagonist-Beta 2 Agonist; 

MRSA: Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus; 

nOH: Neurogenic Orthostatic Hypotension; 

OIC: Opioid Induced Constipation; 

UMEC: Umeclidinium; 

VI: Vilanterol; 

Status: The most advanced stage of clinical development that has been completed or is in process; 

Phase 1: initial clinical safety testing into patients or healthy human volunteers, or studies directed toward understanding the mechanisms of action of the drug; 

Phase 2: further clinical safety testing and preliminary efficacy testing in a limited patient population; 

Phase 3: evaluation of clinical efficacy and safety within an expanded patient population; 

Filed: a marketing application has been submitted to a regulatory authority; and 

Approved: approved for marketing. 

Program Highlights 

VIBATIV&#174; (telavancin) 

VIBATIV is a bactericidal, once-daily injectable antibiotic to treat patients with serious, life-threatening infections due to Staphylococcus aureus and other Gram-positive bacteria, including methicillin-resistant ("MRSA") strains. VIBATIV is approved in the U.S. for the treatment of adult patients with complicated skin and skin structure infections ("cSSSI") caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria and for the treatment of adult patients with hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia ("HABP"/"VABP") caused by susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus when alternative treatments are not suitable. VIBATIV is indicated in the European Union for the treatment of adults with nosocomial pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia, known or suspected to be caused by MRSA when other alternatives are not suitable. VIBATIV is also indicated in Canada and Russia for complicated skin and skin structure infections and HABP and VABP caused by Gram-positive bacteria, including MRSA. We plan to market VIBATIV outside the U.S. through a network of partners. To date, we have secured partners for VIBATIV in the following geographies&#151;Europe, Canada, Middle East, North Africa, Israel, Russia, China and India. 

Commercial Program Expansion 

In 2014 and early 2015, we implemented a phased launch strategy for VIBATIV in the U.S. that focused on a limited number of targeted geographic territories across the country. In the second quarter of 2015, we announced our intention to expand our sales force to 50 representatives with the goal of further strengthening our commercial infrastructure comprised of experienced sales representatives and a significant medical information component focused on the acute care market. We achieved our goal of hiring and training additional sales representatives by the end of the third quarter of 2015, and the newly expanded field force was fully deployed by the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2015. 

Supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) for Concurrent Staphylococcus aureus Bacteremia 

In September 2015, we announced that the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") accepted for filing our sNDA to expand the VIBATIV label to include concurrent Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. The sNDA submission was based on the combined data from our previously conducted pivotal trials of 

VIBATIV in its two approved indications&#151;cSSSI (ATLAS I and ATLAS II) and HABP/VABP (ATTAIN I and ATTAIN II). The trials were large, multi-center, multi-national, double-blind, randomized Phase 3 clinical studies enrolling and treating 3,370 adult patients, including a portion of patients with concurrent bacteremia. Importantly, these studies involved two of the largest cohorts of patients ever studied in these diseases and included one of the largest cohorts of patients with MRSA infections studied to date. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act ("PDUFA"), the FDA has set a target of the second quarter of 2016 to complete its review of the sNDA. Separately, we are conducting a Phase 3 registrational study in patients with Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. 

Phase 3 Registrational Study in Staphylococcus aureus Bacteremia 

As part of our effort to explore additional settings in which VIBATIV may offer patients therapeutic benefit, in February 2015, we initiated a Phase 3 registrational study for the treatment of patients with Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. The 250-patient registrational study is a multi-center, randomized, open-label study designed to evaluate the non-inferiority of telavancin in treating Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia as compared to standard therapy. Key secondary outcome measures of the study include an assessment of the duration of bacteremia post-randomization and the incidence of development of metastatic complications, as compared to standard therapy. 

Telavancin Observational Use Registry ("TOUR") 

Initiated in February 2015, the 1,000-patient TOUR observational use registry study is designed to assess the manner in which VIBATIV is used by healthcare practitioners to treat patients. By broadly collecting and examining data related to VIBATIV treatment patterns, as well as clinical and safety outcomes in the real world, we aim to create an expansive knowledge base to guide future development and optimal use of the drug. 

Long-Acting Muscarinic Antagonist&#151;Revefenacin (TD-4208) 

Revefenacin is an investigational long acting muscarinic antagonist ("LAMA") in development for the treatment of COPD. We believe that revefenacin may become a valuable addition to the COPD treatment regimen and that it represents a significant commercial opportunity. Our market research indicates there is an enduring population of COPD patients in the U.S. that either need or prefer nebulized delivery for maintenance therapy. LAMAs are a cornerstone of maintenance therapy for COPD, but existing LAMAs are only available in handheld devices that may not be suitable for every patient. Revefenacin has the potential to be a best-in-class once-daily single-agent product for COPD patients who require, or prefer, nebulized therapy. The therapeutic profile of revefenacin, together with its physical characteristics, suggest that this LAMA could serve as a foundation for combination products and for delivery in metered dose inhaler and dry powder inhaler products. 

Phase 3 Study in COPD 

In September 2015, we announced, with our partner Mylan Ireland Limited ("Mylan"), the initiation of the Phase 3 development program for revefenacin for the treatment of COPD. The Phase 3 development program, designed to support the registration of the product in the U.S., includes two replicate three-month efficacy studies and a single twelve-month safety study. The two efficacy studies will examine 2 doses (88 mcg and 175 mcg) of revefenacin inhalation solution administered once-daily via nebulizer in moderate to severe patients with COPD. The Phase 3 efficacy studies are replicate, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trials designed to provide pivotal efficacy and safety data for once-daily revefenacin over a dosing period of 12 weeks, with a primary endpoint of trough forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) on day 85. The Phase 3 safety study is an open-label, active comparator study of 12 months duration. Together, the three studies will enroll approximately 2,300 patients. In February 2016, we announced the achievement of 50% 

enrollment in all three of the Phase 3 clinical studies for revefenacin. The achievement of 50% enrollment in the twelve-month safety study triggered a $15.0 million milestone payment to Theravance Biopharma by Mylan. 

Mylan Collaboration 

In January 2015, Mylan and we established a strategic collaboration for the development and, subject to regulatory approval, commercialization of revefenacin. Partnering with a world leader in nebulized respiratory therapies enables us to expand the breadth of our revefenacin development program and extend our commercial reach beyond the acute care setting where we currently market VIBATIV. Funding of the Phase 3 development program by Mylan strengthens our capital position and enhances our financial flexibility to advance other high-value pipeline assets alongside revefenacin. 

Under the terms of the Mylan Development and Commercialization Agreement (the "Mylan Agreement"), Mylan and we will co-develop nebulized revefenacin for COPD and other respiratory diseases. We are leading the U.S. Phase 3 development program and Mylan is responsible for reimbursement of our costs for that program up until the approval of the first new drug application, after which costs will be shared. If a product developed under the collaboration is approved in the U.S., Mylan will lead commercialization and we will retain the right to co-promote the product in the U.S. under a profit-sharing arrangement (65% Mylan/35% Theravance Biopharma). Outside the U.S. (excluding China), Mylan will be responsible for development and commercialization and will pay us a tiered royalty on net sales at percentage royalty rates ranging from low double-digits to mid-teens. Although China is not included in the ex-U.S. territory, Mylan has a right of first negotiation with respect to the development and commercialization of nebulized revefenacin in China. 

Under the Mylan Agreement, Mylan paid us an initial payment of $15.0 million in cash in the second quarter of 2015. Also, pursuant to an ordinary share purchase agreement entered into on January 30, 2015, Mylan Inc., the indirect parent corporation of Mylan, made a $30.0 million equity investment in us, buying 1,585,790 ordinary shares from us in early February 2015 in a private placement transaction at a price of approximately $18.918 per share, which represented a 10% premium over the volume weighted average price per share of our ordinary shares for the five trading days ending on January 30, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, we are eligible to receive from Mylan potential development and sales milestone payments totaling $220.0 million in the aggregate, with $175.0 million associated with revefenacin monotherapy and $45.0 million for future potential combination products. In February 2016, we earned a $15.0 million development milestone payment for achieving 50% enrollment in the Phase 3 twelve-month safety study. 

We retain worldwide rights to revefenacin delivered through other dosage forms, such as a metered dose inhaler or dry powder inhaler ("MDI"/"DPI"), while Mylan has certain rights of first negotiation with respect to our development and commercialization of revefenacin delivered other than via a nebulized inhalation product. 

Oral Peripherally-Acting Mu Opioid Receptor Antagonist&#151;Axelopran (TD-1211) 

OIC Program 

Axelopran is an investigational, once-daily, oral peripherally active mu opioid receptor antagonist for OIC. The axelopran Phase 2 program demonstrated a clinically meaningful treatment effect in OIC patients compared to placebo. The goal for this program is to demonstrate the ability to normalize bowel function without impacting analgesia and improve a variety of GI symptoms associated with constipation, which could provide axelopran with a competitive advantage in the OIC market if demonstrated in Phase 3 studies and approved by regulatory authorities. We have developed a patient reported outcomes tool designed to measure patient symptoms which would be used in a Phase 3 

registrational program and potentially generate data that could differentiate the product from the competition. We are currently refining our development and commercial strategy for axelopran. 

Fixed Dose Combination 

In December 2014, we completed a Phase 1 study to determine the relative bioavailability of OxyContin&#174; (oxycodone) and axelopran after oral administration as a fixed dose combination ("FDC") relative to the individual components administered together. The study examined a spray-coat application of axelopran to an opioid, OxyContin, to determine the effect of axelopran on OxyContin exposure. The study compared exposure of OxyContin alone, axelopran alone, OxyContin and axelopran administered as two separate tablets, and OxyContin spray-coated with axelopran in a FDC. Study results demonstrated that axelopran does not significantly alter systemic exposure to OxyContin when delivered as a FDC relative to when co-administered as individual tablets. A FDC of axelopran and an opioid could present an important market opportunity, as it has the potential to provide pain relief without constipation in a single abuse-deterrent pill for patients using opioids on a chronic basis. 

Velusetrag 

Velusetrag is an oral, investigational medicine developed for gastrointestinal motility disorders. It is a highly selective agonist with high intrinsic activity at the human 5-HT4 receptor. Velusetrag is being developed in collaboration with Alfa Wassermann S.p.A. ("Alfa Wassermann") in a two-part Phase 2 program to test the efficacy, safety and tolerability of velusetrag in the treatment of patients with gastroparesis. Positive top-line results from the initial Phase 2 proof-of-concept study under this partnership, which evaluated gastric emptying, safety and tolerability of multiple doses of velusetrag, were announced in April 2014. In March 2015, we initiated a Phase 2b study of velusetrag for the treatment of patients with gastroparesis and other gastrointestinal motility disorders. The 200-patient study is a multi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial which will explore the efficacy and safety of multiple doses of velusetrag in patients with diabetic or idiopathic gastroparesis. The twelve-week study will test three doses: 5, 15, and 30 mg administered once-daily. The primary endpoint will be the effect of velusetrag on symptoms in subjects with gastroparesis. The study will also evaluate the effect of velusetrag on gastric emptying, and the psychometric properties of the Gastroparesis Rating Scale ("GRS"), a daily patient-reported outcome ("PRO") measure. Pursuant to our agreement with Alfa Wassermann, the first Phase 2 study was, and the bulk of the Phase 2b study is, funded by Alfa Wassermann. 

NS5A Inhibitor&#151;TD-6450 

TD-6450 is an internally discovered multivalent NS5A inhibitor designed to have improved antiviral activity against GT-1 resistance-associated variants ("RAV") resistant to first generation NS5A inhibitors. TD-6450 has successfully completed Phase 1 studies in both healthy volunteers and hepatitis C virus ("HCV") patients. In September 2015, Trek Therapeutics, PBC ("TREKtx") and we entered into a licensing agreement (the "TREKtx Agreement") granting TREKtx an exclusive worldwide license for the development, manufacturing, use, marketing and sale of TD-6450 as a component in combination HCV products (the "HCV Products"). Pursuant to the TREKtx Agreement, we received an upfront payment of $8.0 million in the form of TREKtx's Series A preferred stock and will be eligible to receive future royalties based on net sales of the HCV Products. In October 2015, TREKtx and we announced that TREKtx had initiated a Phase 2a clinical trial to evaluate faldaprevir, an HCV protease inhibitor, combined with TD-6450 and ribavirin in patients infected with HCV genotype 4. 

Neprilysin (NEP) Inhibitor Program 

Neprilysin ("NEP") is an enzyme that degrades natriuretic peptides. These peptides play a protective role in controlling blood pressure and preventing cardiovascular tissue remodeling. Inhibiting 

NEP may result in clinical benefit for patients, including diuresis, control of blood pressure, and reversing maladaptive changes in the heart and vascular tissue in patients with congestive heart failure. Our primary objective is to develop a NEP inhibitor that could be used across a broad population of patients with cardiovascular and renal diseases, including acute and chronic heart failure and chronic kidney disease, including diabetic nephropathy. We intend to create a platform for multiple combination products with our NEP inhibitor with features that are differentiated from currently available products. Specifically, compounds that are non-renally cleared, dosed once-daily, dosed alone or in combination with other medicines and that may be dosed orally or intravenously. 

Phase 1 Single Ascending Dose (SAD) Study 

In March 2016, we completed a Phase 1 clinical study of our most advanced NEP inhibitor compound, TD-0714. The Phase 1 trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single ascending dose study in healthy volunteers. The study was designed to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of TD-0714, as well as measure biomarker evidence of target engagement and the amount of the drug that is eliminated via the kidneys. Results from the Phase 1 single-ascending dose study of TD-0714 demonstrate that the compound achieved maximal and sustained levels of target engagement for 24 hours after a single-dose, supporting the drug's potential for once-daily dosing. Target engagement was measured by dose-related increases in the levels of cyclic GMP (cGMP, a well-precedented biomarker of NEP engagement). TD-0714 also demonstrated very low levels of renal elimination, as evidenced by intravenous microtracer testing technology, and a favorable safety and tolerability profile. These results met the Company's target product profile and provide confidence for future efficacy studies of TD-0714 in a broad range of cardiovascular and renal diseases, including in patients with compromised renal function. Theravance Biopharma is now conducting a Phase 1 multiple-ascending dose ("MAD") study of TD-0714 that is designed to supplement the findings of the SAD study and support the ongoing clinical development of the molecule. 

Gastrointestinal (GI)-Targeted Pan-Janus Kinase (JAK) Inhibitor Program 

JAK inhibitors function by inhibiting the activity of one or more of the Janus kinase family of enzymes (JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, TYK2) that play a key role in cytokine signaling. Inhibiting these JAK enzymes interferes with the JAK/STAT signaling pathway and, in turn, modulates the activity of a wide range of pro-inflammatory cytokines. This mechanism has previously demonstrated therapeutic benefit for patients with ulcerative colitis. Currently available treatments for ulcerative colitis have systemic safety liabilities and limited efficacy. Our goal is to develop an orally administered GI-targeted pan-JAK inhibitor designed to distribute adequately and exclusively to the tissues of the GI tract and minimize systemic exposure to treat ulcerative colitis and potentially other inflammatory intestinal disorders. 

Phase 1 Single Ascending Dose (SAD) and Multiple Ascending Dose (MAD) Studies 

In December 2015, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical study of TD-1473. The Phase 1 trial is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single ascending dose and multiple ascending dose study in healthy subjects. The primary objective of the study will be evaluation of the safety and tolerability of single ascending doses and multiple ascending doses of TD-1473 in healthy subjects. A key secondary objective of the trial will be the characterization of pharmacokinetics related to TD-1473, which will help determine the amount of TD-1473 that enters systemic circulation following oral administration. 

Other Programs 

Economic Interest in GSK-Partnered Respiratory Programs 

We are entitled to receive an 85% economic interest in any future payments that may be made by GSK (pursuant to its agreements with Innoviva) relating to the GSK-Partnered Respiratory Programs consisting primarily of the Closed Triple program and the Inhaled Bifunctional Muscarinic Antagonist-Beta2 Agonist ("MABA") program, each of which are described in more detail below. We are entitled to this economic interest through our equity ownership in TRC. Our economic interest will not include any payments associated with RELVAR&#174; ELLIPTA&#174;/BREO&#174; ELLIPTA&#174;, ANORO&#174; ELLIPTA&#174; or vilanterol monotherapy. The following information regarding the Closed Triple and the MABA program is based solely upon publicly available information and may not reflect the most recent developments under the programs. 

"Closed Triple" or FF/UMEC/VI (fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol) 

The Closed Triple program seeks to provide the activity of an inhaled corticosteroid (FF) plus two bronchodilators (UMEC, a LAMA, and VI, a long-acting beta2 agonist, or LABA) in a single delivery device. If the Closed Triple is successfully developed and commercialized, we are entitled to receive an 85% economic interest in the royalties payable by GSK to TRC on worldwide net sales, which royalties are upward-tiering from 6.5% to 10%. Innoviva and GSK are conducting two global Phase 3 studies for the Closed Triple, which will enroll approximately 11,800 patients with COPD. 

Inhaled Bifunctional Muscarinic Antagonist-Beta2 Agonist (MABA) 

GSK961081 ('081), also known as batefenterol, is an investigational, single-molecule bifunctional bronchodilator with both muscarinic antagonist and beta2 receptor agonist activity that was discovered by us when we were part of Innoviva. Recently, GSK initiated two Phase 2 clinical trials in COPD patients and two pharmacology studies in healthy volunteers of batefenterol and batefenterol/FF. 

If a single-agent MABA medicine containing '081 is successfully developed and commercialized, we are entitled to receive an 85% economic interest in the royalties payable by GSK to TRC on worldwide net sales, which royalties range between 10% and 20% of annual global net sales up to $3.5 billion, and 7.5% for all annual global net sales above $3.5 billion. If a MABA medicine containing '081 is commercialized only as a combination product, such as '081/FF, the royalty rate is 70% of the rate applicable to sales of the single-agent MABA medicine. If a MABA medicine containing '081 is successfully developed and commercialized in multiple regions of the world, GSK will pay TRC contingent milestone payments of up to $125.0 million for a single-agent medicine and up to $250.0 million for both a single-agent and a combination medicine, and in each case we would be entitled to receive an 85% economic interest in any such payments. 

Theravance Respiratory Company, LLC 

Prior to the Spin-Off, Innoviva assigned to TRC its strategic alliance agreement with GSK and all of its rights and obligations under its LABA collaboration agreement with GSK other than with respect to RELVAR&#174; ELLIPTA&#174;/BREO&#174; ELLIPTA&#174;, ANORO&#174; ELLIPTA&#174; and vilanterol monotherapy. Our equity interest in TRC is the mechanism by which we are entitled to the 85% economic interest in any future payments made by GSK under the strategic alliance agreement and under the portion of the collaboration agreement assigned to TRC. The drug programs assigned to TRC include the Closed Triple and the MABA program, as monotherapy and in combination with other therapeutically active components, such as an inhaled corticosteroid ("ICS"), as well as any other product or combination of products that may be discovered and developed in the future under these GSK agreements. 

Our Strategy 

Our mission is to create value from a diverse and unique set of assets: an approved product, a pipeline of late-stage assets, and a productive research platform designed for long-term growth. With our successful drug discovery and development track record, commercial infrastructure, experienced management team and efficient corporate structure, we believe that we are well positioned to create value for our shareholders and make a difference in the lives of patients. 

We follow these core guiding principles in our mission to drive value creation: 

&#149; Focus on insight and innovation; &#149; Outsource non-core activities; &#149; Create and foster an integrated environment; and &#149; Aggressively manage uncertainty. Our research and development activities are concentrated primarily on four therapeutic areas&#151;infectious disease, respiratory, gastrointestinal disease and cardiovascular and renal disease&#151;and we have established a commercial infrastructure focused primarily on the acute care setting. We manage our pipeline with the goal of optimizing program value and allocation of resources. We employ multiple strategies for commercialization of our products. Our approach may involve retaining product rights and marketing a product independently in the U.S., predominantly in the acute care setting, or we may partner a product to extend our commercial reach beyond the acute care setting, to expand our geographic reach, and/or to manage the financial risk associated with the program. Alternatively, our strategy may be to monetize or divest an asset that we designate as outside our core business, where we believe the program is optimized by leveraging partner capabilities and removing or limiting our research and development costs. 

Manufacturing 

We rely primarily on a network of third-party manufacturers, including contract manufacturing organizations, to produce our active pharmaceutical ingredient ("API") and our drug product. We believe that we have in-house expertise to manage this network of third-party manufacturers and we believe that we will be able to continue to negotiate third-party manufacturing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms and that it will not be necessary for us to obtain internal manufacturing capacity in order to develop or commercialize our products. However, if we are unable to obtain contract manufacturing or obtain such manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms, or if manufacturing is interrupted at one of our suppliers, whether due to regulatory or other reasons, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our products as planned. 

We have a single source of supply of telavancin API and another, separate single source of supply of VIBATIV drug product. If, for any reason, either the single-source third-party manufacturer of telavancin API or VIBATIV drug product is unable or unwilling to perform, or if its performance does not meet regulatory requirements, including maintaining current good manufacturing practice ("cGMP") compliance, we may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers, enter into acceptable agreements with them or obtain sufficient quantities of API or finished drug product in a timely manner. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of API or finished drug product in a timely manner from current or future sources would adversely affect the commercialization of VIBATIV. 

Government Regulation 

The development and commercialization of VIBATIV and our product candidates by us and our collaboration partners and our ongoing research are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. Before marketing in the United States, any 

medicine must undergo rigorous preclinical studies and clinical studies and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Outside the United States, the ability to market a product depends upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical studies, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. In any country, however, the commercialization of medicines is permitted only if the appropriate regulatory authority is satisfied that we have presented adequate evidence of the safety, quality and efficacy of our medicines. 

Before commencing clinical studies in humans in the United States, we must submit to the FDA an investigational new drug application ("IND") that includes, among other things, the general investigational plan and protocols for specific human studies, and the results of preclinical studies. An IND will go into effect 30 days following its receipt by the FDA unless the FDA issues a clinical hold. Once clinical studies have begun under the IND, they are usually conducted in three phases and under FDA oversight. These phases generally include the following: 

Phase 1. The product candidate is introduced into patients or healthy human volunteers and is tested for safety, dose tolerance and pharmacokinetics. 

Phase 2. The product candidate is introduced into a limited patient population to assess the efficacy of the drug in specific, targeted indications, assess dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, and identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. 

Phase 3. If a compound is found to be potentially effective and to have an acceptable safety profile in Phase 2 evaluations, the clinical study will be expanded to further demonstrate clinical efficacy, optimal dosage and safety within an expanded patient population. 

The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of a new drug application ("NDA"). The NDA also must contain extensive manufacturing information. The Prescription Drug User Fee Act ("PDUFA") establishes timeframes for FDA review of NDAs, with a performance goal of reviewing and acting on 90 percent of priority new molecular entity ("NME") NDA submissions within 6 months of the 60-day filing date, and to review and act on 90 percent of standard NME NDA submissions within 10 months of the 60-day filing date. The 2007 Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act gave the FDA authority to require implementation of a formal Risk Evaluation and Management Strategy ("REMS") to ensure that the benefits of a product outweigh its risks. At the end of the review period, the FDA communicates either approval of the NDA or a complete response listing the application's deficiencies. 

Once approved, the FDA may withdraw the product approval if compliance with post-marketing regulatory standards is not maintained or if safety or quality issues are identified after the product reaches the marketplace. In addition, the FDA may require post-marketing studies, referred to as Phase 4 studies, to monitor the safety and effectiveness of approved products, and may limit further marketing of the product based on the results of these post-marketing studies. The FDA has broad post-market regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend or delay issuance of approvals, seize products, withdraw approvals, enjoin violations, and initiate criminal prosecution. 

If regulatory approval for a medicine is obtained, the clearance to market the product will be limited to those diseases and conditions approved by FDA and for which the medicine was shown to be effective, as demonstrated through clinical studies and specified in the medicine's labeling. Even if this regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed medicine, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA. The FDA ensures the quality of approved medicines by carefully monitoring manufacturers' compliance with its cGMP regulations. The cGMP regulations for drugs contain minimum requirements for the methods, facilities, and controls used in manufacturing, processing, and packaging of a medicine. The regulations are intended to make 

sure that a medicine is safe for use, and that it has the ingredients and strength it claims to have. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a medicine, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the medicine or manufacturer, including costly recalls or withdrawal of the medicine from the market. 

We and our collaboration partners are also subject to various laws and regulations regarding laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances in connection with our research. In each of these areas, as above, the FDA and other regulatory authorities have broad regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend or delay issuance of approvals, seize products, withdraw approvals, enjoin violations, and initiate criminal prosecution, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Outside the United States our ability to market our products will also depend on receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities. Risks similar to those associated with FDA approval described above exist with the regulatory approval processes in other countries. 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

We will be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our technology is covered by valid and enforceable patents or is effectively maintained as trade secrets. Our success in the future will depend in part on obtaining patent protection for our product candidates. Accordingly, patents and other proprietary rights are essential elements of our business. Our policy is to seek in the United States and selected foreign countries patent protection for novel technologies and compositions of matter that are commercially important to the development of our business. For proprietary know-how that is not patentable, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and any other elements of our drug discovery process that involve proprietary know-how and technology that is not covered by patent applications, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our interests. We require all of our employees, consultants and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements. Where it is necessary to share our proprietary information or data with outside parties, our policy is to make available only that information and data required to accomplish the desired purpose and only pursuant to a duty of confidentiality on the part of those parties. 

As of December 31, 2015, we or one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries owned 420 issued United States patents and 1,582 granted foreign patents, as well as additional pending United States patent applications and foreign patent applications. The claims in these various patents and patent applications are directed to compositions of matter, including claims covering product candidates, lead compounds and key intermediates, pharmaceutical compositions, methods of use and processes for making our compounds along with methods of design, synthesis, selection and use relevant to multivalency in general and to our research and development programs in particular. In particular, our wholly-owned subsidiary Theravance Biopharma Antibiotics IP, LLC owns the following U.S. patents which are listed in the FDA Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (Orange Book) for telavancin: U.S. Patent No. 6,635,618 B2, expiring on September 11, 2023; U.S. Patent No. 6,858,584 B2, expiring on August 24, 2022; U.S. Patent No. 6,872,701 B2, expiring on June 5, 2021; U.S. Patent No. 7,008,923 B2, expiring on May 6, 2021; U.S. Patent No. 7,208,471 B2, expiring on May 1, 2021; U.S. Patent No. 7,351,691 B2, expiring on May 1, 2021; U.S. Patent No. 7,531,623 B2, expiring on January 1, 2027; U.S. Patent No. 7,544,364 B2, expiring on May 1, 2021; U.S. Patent No. 7,700,550 B2, expiring on May 1, 2021; U.S. Patent No. 8,101,575 B2, expiring on May 1, 2021; and U.S. Patent No. 8,158,580 B2, expiring on May 1, 2021. Thus, the last-to-expire patent currently listed in the Orange Book for telavancin expires on January 1, 2027. 

United States issued patents and foreign patents generally expire 20 years after filing. The patent rights relating to VIBATIV&#174; (telavancin) currently consist of United States patents that expire between 2019 and 2027, additional pending United States patent applications and counterpart patents and patent applications in a number of jurisdictions, including Europe. Nevertheless, issued patents can be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products and threaten our ability to commercialize our product candidates. Our patent position, similar to other companies in our industry, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. To maintain our proprietary position we will need to obtain effective claims and enforce these claims once granted. It is possible that, before any of our products can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force only for a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent. Also, we do not know whether any of our patent applications will result in any issued patents or, if issued, whether the scope of the issued claims will be sufficient to protect our proprietary position. 

We are party to a license agreement with Janssen Pharmaceutica ("Janssen") pursuant to which we have licensed rights under certain patents owned by Janssen covering an excipient used in the formulation of telavancin. Pursuant to the terms of this license agreement, we are obligated to pay royalties to Janssen based on any commercial sales of VIBATIV&#174; (telavancin). The license is terminable by us upon prior written notice to Janssen or upon an uncured breach or a liquidation event of one of the parties. 

Competition 

Our marketed product and our research and development programs target four therapeutic areas&#151;infectious disease, respiratory, gastrointestinal disease and cardiovascular and renal disease&#151;and our commercial infrastructure is focused primarily on the acute care setting. We expect that any medicines that we commercialize with our collaborative partners or on our own will compete with existing and future market-leading medicines. 

Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures than we have. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to leverage our experience in drug discovery and development to: 

&#149; discover and develop medicines that are superior to other products in the market; &#149; attract qualified scientific, product development and commercial personnel; &#149; obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our medicines and technologies; &#149; obtain required regulatory approvals; and &#149; successfully collaborate with pharmaceutical companies in the discovery, development and commercialization of new medicines. VIBATIV&#174; (telavancin). VIBATIV competes with vancomycin and linezolid, generic drugs that are manufactured by a variety of companies, as well as other drugs marketed to treat complicated skin and skin structure infections and hospital acquired and ventilator associated bacterial pneumonia caused by Gram-positive bacteria. Currently marketed products include but are not limited to Cubicin &#174; (daptomycin) and Sivextro &#174; (tedizolid) marketed by Merck &#38; Co., Inc.; Teflaro &#174; (ceftaroline) and Dalvance&#153; (dalbavancin) marketed by Allergan; and Orbactiv&#153; (oritavancin) marketed by The Medicines Company. To compete effectively with these medicines, and in particular with the relatively inexpensive generic options of vancomycin and linezolid, we will need to demonstrate to physicians that, based on experience, clinical data, side effect profiles and other factors, VIBATIV is a preferred 

injectable Staphyloccocus aureus treatment for patients not likely to respond to current Staphyloccocus aureus therapy. 

Revefenacin (TD-4208) long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA). If successfully developed and approved as the first once-daily nebulized LAMA, revefenacin would be expected to compete predominantly with short-acting nebulized bronchodilators used 3 to 4 times per day and has the potential to be a first line prescription or complement to single agent nebulized long-acting beta agonist (LABA) products used two times per day. 

Research and Development 

We spent $129.2 million, $168.5 million, and $120.6 million on research and development for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Additional information regarding these expenditures is included in Note 1, "Description of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 313 employees, of which 175 were engaged primarily in research and development activities. During 2015, some of our employees provided services to Innoviva pursuant to agreements between our companies. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas 

Information on our total revenues attributed to geographic areas and customers who represented at least 10% of our total revenues is included in Note 3, "Segment Information," to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Available Information 

Our Internet address is www.theravance.com . Our investor relations website is located at http://investor.theravance.com . We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under "SEC Filings" our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our directors' and officers' Section 16 Reports and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing such materials to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Theravance Biopharma and the Theravance Biopharma logo are registered trademarks of the Theravance Biopharma group of companies. Trademarks, tradenames or service marks of other companies appearing in this report are the property of their respective owners. 

