 Item 1. Business 

The Holding Company is a Delaware corporation formed on April 2, 2012 and is an externally managed, closed-end, non-diversified management investment company. We have elected to be treated as a business development company (&#147;BDC&#148;) under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the &#147;1940 Act&#148;). Our investment objective is to achieve high total returns through current income and capital appreciation, with an emphasis on principal protection. We seek to achieve our investment objective primarily through investments in debt securities of middle-market companies, which we typically define as those with enterprise values between $100 million and $1.5 billion. While we intend to primarily focus on privately negotiated investments in debt of middle-market companies, we may make investments of all kinds and at all levels of the capital structure, including in equity interests such as preferred or common stock and warrants or options received in connection with our debt investments. Our investment activities will benefit from what we believe are the competitive advantages of our Advisor, including its diverse in-house skills, proprietary deal flow, and consistent and rigorous investment process focused on established, middle-market companies. We expect to generate returns through a combination of the receipt of contractual interest payments on debt investments and origination and similar fees, and, to a lesser extent, equity appreciation through options, warrants, conversion rights or direct equity investments.

Investment operations are conducted in the Operating Company, either directly or in one of the Operating Company&#146;s wholly owned subsidiaries, TCPC Funding I, LLC (&#147;TCPC Funding&#148;) and TCPC SBIC, LP (the &#147;SBIC&#148;). The Holding Company owns 100% of the common limited partner interests of the Operating Company. The Operating Company has also elected to be treated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. The General Partner of the Operating Company is SVOF/MM, LLC (&#147;SVOF/MM&#148;), which also serves as the administrator (the &#147;Administrator&#148;) of the Holding Company and the Operating Company. The managing member of SVOF/MM is Tennenbaum Capital Partners, LLC (the &#147;Advisor&#148;), which serves as the investment manager to both the Holding Company and the Operating Company. Most of the equity interests in the General Partner are owned directly or indirectly by the Advisor and its employees.

The Holding Company has elected to be treated as a regulated investment company (&#147;RIC&#148;) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a RIC, we will not be taxed on our income to the extent that we distribute such income each year and satisfy other applicable income tax requirements. The Operating Company has elected to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

On April 2, 2012, the Holding Company converted from a limited liability company to a corporation (the &#147;Conversion&#148;). At the time of the Conversion, all limited liability company interests of Special Value Continuation Fund, LLC (&#147;SVCF&#148;) were exchanged for 15,725,635 shares of common stock in TCP Capital Corp. As a result of the Conversion, the books and records of SVCF became the books and records of the surviving entity.

On April 3, 2012, the Company priced its initial public offering (the &#147;Offering&#148;), selling 5,750,000 shares of its common stock at a public offering price of $14.75 per share.

To qualify as a RIC, we must, among other things, meet certain source-of-income and asset diversification requirements and timely distribute to our stockholders generally at least 90% of our investment company taxable income, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#147;Code&#148;), for each year. Pursuant to this election, we generally will not have to pay corporate level taxes on any income that we distribute to our stockholders provided that we satisfy those requirements.

Tennenbaum Capital Partners, LLC 

Our investment activities are managed by the Advisor. The Advisor is a leading investment manager (including specialty lending to middle-market companies). The Advisor is a Delaware limited liability company and is registered as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. As of December 31, 2015, the Advisor had in excess of $6.4 billion in committed capital under management, approximately 25.8% of which consists of the Company&#146;s committed capital, and a team of over 80 people including investment professionals and other personnel that focus on operations, finance, legal, and compliance, accounting and reporting, investor relations, information technology, and administration. The Advisor was founded in 1999 by Michael E. Tennenbaum, Mark K. Holdsworth and Howard M. Levkowitz, and its predecessor entity, formed by the same individuals, commenced operations in 1996. Mark K. Holdsworth and Howard M. Levkowitz along with David Adler, David A. Hollander, Michael E. Leitner, Philip M. Tseng, Rajneesh Vig, and Lee Landrum constitute the Advisor&#146;s active partners (the &#147;Advisor Partners&#148;). The Advisor Partners have significant industry experience, including experience investing in middle-market companies. Together, the Advisor Partners have invested approximately $16.3 billion in 447 companies since the Advisor&#146;s inception, through multiple business and credit cycles, across all segments of the capital structure and through a broad set of credit-oriented strategies including leveraged loan origination, secondary investments of discounted debt securities, and distressed and control opportunities. We believe the Advisor Partners&#146; investment perspectives, complementary skills, and collective investment experience provide the Advisor with a strategic and competitive advantage in middle-market investing.

As our investment advisor, the Advisor is responsible for sourcing potential investments, conducting research, analyzing investment opportunities and structuring our investments and monitoring our portfolio companies on an ongoing basis. We believe that the Advisor has a proven long-term track record of positive performance, notwithstanding some periods during which losses were incurred, of sourcing deals, originating loans and successfully investing in middle-market companies and that the relationships of its investment professionals are integral to the Advisor&#146;s success. The Advisor&#146;s investment professionals have long-term working relationships with key sources of investment opportunities and industry expertise, including investment bankers, financial advisors, attorneys, private equity sponsors, other senior lenders, high-yield bond specialists, research analysts, accountants, and senior management teams. Additionally, the Advisor&#146;s structure includes both a board of advisors and a group of Senior Executive Advisors, a team comprised of approximately 17 current and former executives from a variety of industries, which extends the reach of the Advisor&#146;s relationships through a group of seasoned industry leaders and that can enhance our deal sourcing and due diligence activities.

We also benefit from the existing infrastructure and administrative capabilities of an established investment manager. The General Partner, an affiliate of the Advisor, serves as our Administrator and provides us with office space, equipment and office services. The tasks of our Administrator include overseeing our financial records, preparing reports to our stockholders and reports filed with the SEC and generally monitoring the payment of our expenses and the performance of administrative and professional services rendered to us by others.

Since the beginning of 2011, the Advisor executed across its funds approximately $4.6 billion in direct origination leveraged loans primarily to middle-market companies, of which approximately $1.8 billion was for our account. There can be no assurance that similar deal flow or terms will be available in the future for loans in which we may invest.

Operating and Regulatory Tax Structure 

The Holding Company elected to be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a RIC under the Code. As a RIC, the Holding Company generally does not have to pay corporate-level federal income taxes on any net ordinary income or capital gain that we distribute to our stockholders as dividends if we meet certain 

source-of-income, distribution and asset diversification requirements. The Operating Company is not a RIC nor will it seek RIC status and instead is intended to be treated as a partnership for tax purposes. The Holding Company and the Operating Company have elected to be treated as BDCs under the 1940 Act. As a BDC we are required to invest at least 70% of our total assets primarily in securities of private and certain public U.S. companies (other than investment companies and certain financial institutions), cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities, and other high-quality debt investments that mature in one year or less and to comply with other regulatory requirements, including limitations on our use of debt. Because the Holding Company and the Operating Company are each BDCs, their assets, liabilities and results of operations will be consolidated for purposes of this 70% requirement.

Investment Strategy 

To achieve our investment objectives, we intend to focus on a subset of the broader investment strategies historically pursued by the Advisor. Our primary investment focus is the ongoing origination of and investments in leveraged loans of performing middle-market companies, building on the Advisor&#146;s established track record of origination and participation in the original syndication of approximately $8.3 billion of leveraged loans to 235 companies since 1999, of which we invested over $2.3 billion in 139 companies. For the purposes of this filing, the term &#147;leveraged loans&#148; refers to senior debt investments that rank ahead of subordinated debt and that generally have the benefit of security interests in the assets of the borrower. Our investments generally range from $10 million to $50 million per company, the size of which may grow over time in proportion with our capital base. We expect to generate current returns through a combination of the receipt of contractual interest payments on debt investments and origination and similar fees, and, to a lesser extent, equity appreciation through options, warrants, conversion rights or direct equity investments. We often receive equity interests such as preferred or common stock and warrants or options in connection with our debt investments. From time to time we may also use other investment strategies, which are not our primary focus, to attempt to enhance the overall return of our portfolio. These investment strategies may include, but are not limited to, the purchase of discounted debt, opportunistic investments, and financial instruments to hedge currency or interest rate risk associated with our portfolio.

Our typical investments are in performing middle-market companies. We believe that middle-market companies are generally less able to secure financing than larger companies and thus offer better return opportunities for those able to conduct the necessary diligence to appropriately evaluate these companies. We focus primarily on U.S. companies where we believe our Advisor&#146;s perspective, complementary skills and investment experience provides us with a competitive advantage and in industries where our Advisor sees an attractive risk reward profile due to macroeconomic trends and existing Advisor industry expertise.

Investment Portfolio 

At December 31, 2015, our investment portfolio of $1,182.9 million (at fair value) consisted of 88 portfolio companies and was invested 95.5% in debt investments, of which 99.9% was in senior secured debt and 0.1% in unsecured and subordinated debt. In aggregate, our investment portfolio was invested 81.5% in senior secured loans, 14.0% in senior secured notes, 0.1% in unsecured and subordinated debt, and 4.4% in equity investments. Our average portfolio company investment at fair value was approximately $13.4 million. Our largest portfolio company investment by value was approximately $43.3 million and our five largest portfolio company investments by value comprised approximately 15.7% of our portfolio at December 31, 2015. 

The following charts summarize our portfolio mix by industry and type based on the fair value of our investments as of December 31, 2015.

&#8201; 

Investment Process 

The Advisor&#146;s investment process is designed to maximize its strategic advantages: a strong brand name as a specialty lender to the middle-market and diverse in-house expertise and skills. The Advisor seeks out opportunities by conducting a rigorous and disciplined investment process that combines the following characteristics:

Deal Sourcing 

As a leading middle-market corporate debt investment manager with a 16-year history and in excess of $6.4 billion in committed capital as of December 31, 2015, approximately 25.8% of which consists of the Company&#146;s committed capital, the Advisor is active in new deal financing opportunities in the middle-market segment. However, we believe that the Advisor&#146;s real deal flow advantage comes from the proprietary network of established relationships of its investment professionals and synergies among its professionals and portfolio companies. Members of the Advisor&#146;s Investment Committee for the Company ( the &#147;Investment Committee&#148;) have long-term relationships with deal sources including investment bankers, restructuring professionals, bankruptcy attorneys, senior lenders, high yield bond specialists, research analysts, accountants, fund management teams, the Advisor&#146;s Advisory Board, Senior Executive Advisors, board members of former clients, former colleagues and other operating professionals to facilitate deal flow. The Investment Committee is currently comprised of five voting members. In total, the Investment Committee consists of approximately 30 members from the Advisor. The number of voting and non-voting members of the Investment Committee is subject to increase or decrease in the sole discretion of the Advisor. All members of the Investment Committee attend investment meetings and are encouraged to participate in discussions. In addition, members of the Investment Committee have relationships with other investors, including insurance companies, bond funds, mezzanine funds, private equity funds, hedge funds and other funds which invest in similar assets. Further, the Advisor regularly calls on both active and recently retired senior executives from the relevant industries to assist with the due diligence of potential investments. Historically, these relationships with retired senior executives have also been a valuable source of transactions and information. The Advisor anticipates that they will continue to provide future opportunities. We believe the Advisor&#146;s strong relationships with its portfolio companies facilitate positive word-of-mouth recommendations to other companies seeking the Advisor&#146;s expertise. The Advisor&#146;s relationships often result in the ability to access investment opportunities earlier than many of its competitors and in some cases on an exclusive basis.

Due Diligence Process 

The foundation of the Advisor&#146;s investment process is intensive investment research and analysis by its experienced staff of investment professionals. The Advisor&#146;s senior professionals have worked together for numerous years and we believe that they have a superior level of credit investing knowledge relative to other credit investors. The Advisor supplements its in-house knowledge with industry experts, including CEO/CFO-level executives, with direct management experience in the industries under consideration. The Advisor prefers these industry experts to consultants because of the practical business advice that comes from having managed businesses. The Advisor rigorously and comprehensively analyzes issuers of securities of interest. The process includes a quantitative and qualitative assessment of the issuer&#146;s business, an evaluation of its management, an analysis of the business strategy and industry trends, and an in-depth examination of the company&#146;s capital structure, financial results and projections. The Advisor&#146;s due diligence process includes:

- an assessment of the outlook for the industry and general macroeconomic trends; 

- discussions with issuer management and other industry executives, including the assessment of management/board strengths and weaknesses; 

- an analysis of the fundamental asset values and the enterprise value of the issuer; 

- review of the issuer’s key assets, core competencies, competitive advantages, historical and projected financial statements, capitalization, financial flexibility, debt amortization requirements, and tax, environmental, legal and regulatory contingencies; 

- review of the issuer’s existing credit documents, including credit agreements, indentures, intercreditor agreements, and security agreements; and 

- review of documents governing the issuer, including charter, by-laws, and key contracts. 

Structuring Originations 

As an early non-bank participant in the leveraged loan market, we believe that loan origination is a core competency of the Advisor. Supplementing industry deal teams&#146; experience and competency, the Advisor has six professionals (including investment professionals) with legal experience, two of whom have a quarter-century each of relevant experience in secured credit. Deal teams work with the Advisor&#146;s in-house legal specialists and outside counsel to structure over-collateralized loans with what we believe to be strong creditor protections and contractual controls over borrower operations. In many cases, the Advisor works to obtain contractual governance rights and board seats to protect principal and maximize post-investment returns. Deals usually include original issue discounts, upfront fees and/or equity participations through warrants or direct equity stakes.

Trading and Secondary Market Purchases 

A key element in maximizing investment returns in secondary purchases is buying and selling investments at the best available prices. The Advisor has a dedicated trading staff for both the highly specialized traded loan market and for high-yield bonds. Through its trading operations, the Advisor maintains its established relationships with a network of broker-dealers in the debt securities markets. These relationships provide the Advisor with access to the trading dynamics of existing or potential investments and assist it in effectively executing transactions. These relationships may also lead to the early identification of potential investment opportunities for the Company.

Portfolio Management &amp; Monitoring 

The Advisor actively monitors the financial performance of its portfolio companies and market developments. This constant monitoring permits the Advisor to update position risk assessments, seek to address potential problems early, refine exit plans, and make follow-on investment decisions quickly. We view active portfolio monitoring as a vital part of our investment process.

We consider board observation and information rights, regular dialogue with company management and sponsors, and detailed internally generated monitoring reports to be critical to our performance. We have developed a monitoring template that seeks to ensure compliance with these standards and that is used as a tool by the Investment Committee to assess investment performance relative to plan.

- Deal teams maintain contact with portfolio company management through regularly scheduled and ad hoc conference calls and onsite visits. 

- Deal teams review portfolio company progress relative to plan and pre-determined performance benchmarks. 

- Adverse or unexpected developments, as well as consequential routine updates, are reported to the Investment Committee and thoroughly discussed at regularly scheduled weekly meetings. If merited, the Investment Committee will hold ad hoc meetings as necessary to address urgent issues. 

- Deal teams, with Investment Committee approval, encourage portfolio company managers to catalyze events to monetize holdings for greater return, or where needed, take corrective actions to address shortfalls to plan or benchmarks. 

- All existing portfolio holdings are formally reviewed in detail by the entire Investment Committee once per quarter at the Advisor’s quarterly portfolio review. 

Investment Committee and Decision Process 

The Advisor&#146;s investment process is organized around the Investment Committee that provides for a centralized, repeatable decision process. The Investment Committee meets weekly and, with respect to each fund the Advisor advises, certain members of the Investment Committee are voting members. The voting members of the Investment Committee for the Company are currently Mark K. Holdsworth, Michael E. Leitner, Howard M. Levkowitz, Philip M. Tseng and Rajneesh Vig. Approval by a simple majority vote of the voting members of the Investment Committee for each respective fund is required for the purchase or sale of any investment, with certain de-minimis exceptions. No voting member has veto power. The Advisor&#146;s investment process is designed to maximize risk-adjusted returns and preserve downside protection.

Regulation 

We have filed an election to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act contains prohibitions and restrictions relating to transactions between BDCs and their affiliates (including any investment advisors or co-advisors), principal underwriters and affiliates of those affiliates or underwriters and requires that a majority of the directors be persons other than &#147;interested persons,&#148; as that term is defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or to withdraw our election as, a BDC unless approved by &#147;a majority of our outstanding voting securities&#148;, which is defined in the 1940 Act as the lesser of a majority of the outstanding voting securities or 67% or more of the securities voting if a quorum of a majority of the outstanding voting securities is present.

We may invest up to 100% of our assets in securities acquired directly from issuers in privately negotiated transactions. With respect to such securities, we may, for the purpose of public resale, be deemed an &#147;underwriter&#148; as that term is defined in the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act. We do not intend to acquire securities issued by any investment company that exceed the limits imposed by the 1940 Act. Under these limits, except for registered money market funds we generally cannot acquire more than 3% of the voting stock of any investment company, invest more than 5% of the value of our total assets in the securities of one investment company or invest more than 10% of the value of our total assets in the securities of more than one investment company. With regard to that portion of our portfolio invested in securities issued by investment companies, it should be noted that such investments might indirectly subject our stockholders to additional expenses as they will indirectly be responsible for the costs and expenses of such companies. None of our investment policies are fundamental and any may be changed without stockholder approval. Pursuant to the 1940 Act, our investment in the Operating Company is not subject to these limits because, among other reasons, (i) the Operating Company is our sole investment and (ii) we &#147;pass-through&#148; our votes on Operating Company matters to our stockholders and vote all of our interests in the Operating Company in the same proportion and manner as our stockholders vote their common stock on such matters.

Qualifying assets 

Under the 1940 Act, a BDC may not acquire any asset other than assets of the type listed in section 55(a) of the 1940 Act, which are referred to as qualifying assets, unless, at the time the acquisition is made, qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the Company&#146;s total assets. The principal categories of qualifying assets relevant to our proposed business are the following:

- Securities purchased in transactions not involving any public offering from the issuer of such securities, which issuer (subject to certain limited exceptions) is an eligible portfolio company, or from any person who is, or has been during the preceding 13 months, an affiliated person of an eligible portfolio company, or from any other person, subject to such rules as may be prescribed by the SEC. An eligible portfolio company is defined in the 1940 Act as any issuer which: 

- is organized under the laws of, and has its principal place of business in, the United States; 

- is not an investment company (other than a small business investment company wholly owned by the BDC) or a company that would be an investment company but for certain exclusions under the 1940 Act; and 

- satisfies either of the following: 

- has a market capitalization of less than $250.0 million or does not have any class of securities listed on a national securities exchange; or 

- is controlled by a BDC or a group of companies including a BDC, the BDC actually exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the eligible portfolio company, and, as a result thereof, the BDC has an affiliated person who is a director of the eligible portfolio company. 

- Securities of any eligible portfolio company which we control. 

- Securities purchased in a private transaction from a U.S. issuer that is not an investment company or from an affiliated person of the issuer, or in transactions incident thereto, if the issuer is in bankruptcy and subject to reorganization or if the issuer, immediately prior to the purchase of its securities was unable to meet its obligations as they came due without material assistance other than conventional lending or financing arrangements. 

- Securities of an eligible portfolio company purchased from any person in a private transaction if there is no ready market for such securities and we already own 60% of the outstanding equity of the eligible portfolio company. 

- Securities received in exchange for or distributed on or with respect to securities described above, or pursuant to the exercise of warrants or rights relating to such securities. 

- Cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities or high-quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment. 

Managerial assistance to portfolio companies 

A BDC must have been organized and have its principal place of business in the United States and must be operated for the purpose of making investments in the types of securities described in &#147;Qualifying assets&#148; above. However, in order to count portfolio securities as qualifying assets for the purpose of the 70% test, the BDC must either control the issuer of the securities or must offer to make available to the issuer of the securities significant managerial assistance. Where the BDC purchases such securities in conjunction with one or more other persons acting together, the BDC will satisfy this test if one of the other persons in the group makes available such managerial assistance, although reliance on other investors may not be the sole method by which the BDC satisfies the requirement to make available managerial assistance. Making available managerial assistance means, among other things, any arrangement whereby the BDC, through its investment manager, directors, officers or employees, offers to provide, and, if accepted, does so provide, significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations or business objectives and policies of a portfolio company.

Small Business Administration Regulations 

On April 22, 2014, the SBIC received a license from the Small Business Administration (the &#147;SBA&#148;) to operate as a small business investment company. The SBIC license allows us to borrow funds from the SBA against eligible investments. The Small Business Investment Company regulations currently limit the amount that is available to borrow by any SBIC to $150.0 million. There is no assurance that we will draw up to the maximum limit available under the Small Business Investment Company program.

Small business investment companies are designed to stimulate the flow of private equity capital to eligible small businesses. Under present Small Business Administration regulations, eligible small businesses include businesses that have a tangible net worth not exceeding $19.5 million and have average annual fully taxed net income not exceeding $6.5 million for the two most recent fiscal years. In addition, a small business investment company must devote 25% of its investment activity to &#147;smaller&#148; concerns as defined by the Small Business Administration. A smaller concern is one that has a tangible net worth not exceeding $6.0 million and has average annual fully taxed net income not exceeding $2.0 million for the two most recent fiscal years. Small Business Administration regulations also provide alternative size standard criteria to determine eligibility, which depend on the industry in which the business is engaged and are based on such factors as the number of employees and gross sales. According to Small Business Administration regulations, small business investment companies may make long-term loans to small businesses, invest in the equity securities of such businesses and provide them with consulting and advisory services. We plan to provide long-term loans to qualifying small businesses, and in connection therewith, make equity investments.

The SBIC is periodically examined and audited by the Small Business Administration&#146;s staff to determine its compliance with small business investment company regulations.

Taxation of the company 

We have elected to be taxed as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. To continue to qualify as a RIC, we must, among other things, (a) derive in each taxable year at least 90 percent of our gross income from dividends, interest (including tax-exempt interest), payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale or other disposition of stock, securities or foreign currencies, other income (including but not limited to gain from options, futures and forward contracts) derived with respect to our business of investing in stock, securities or currencies, or net income derived from an interest in a &#147;qualified publicly traded partnership&#148; (a &#147;QPTP&#148;); and (b) diversify our holdings so that, at the end of each quarter of each taxable year (i) at least 50 percent of the market value of our total assets is represented by cash and cash items, U.S. Government securities, the securities of other RICs and other securities, with other securities limited, in respect of any one issuer, to an amount not greater than five percent of the value of our total assets and not more than 10 percent of the outstanding voting securities of such issuer (subject to the exception described below), and (ii) not more than 25 percent of the market value of our total assets is invested in the securities (other than U.S. Government securities and the securities of other regulated investment companies) (A) of any issuer, (B) of any two or more issuers that we control and that are determined to be engaged in the same business or similar or related trades or businesses, or (C) of one or more QPTPs. The Code provides for certain exceptions to the foregoing diversification requirements. We may generate certain income that might not qualify as good income for purposes of the 90% annual gross income requirement described above. We monitor our transactions to endeavor to prevent our disqualification as a RIC.

If we fail to satisfy the 90% annual gross income requirement or the asset diversification requirements discussed above in any taxable year, we may be eligible for relief provisions if the failures are due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect and if a penalty tax is paid with respect to each failure to satisfy the applicable requirements. Additionally, relief is provided for certain de minimis failures of the asset diversification requirements where we correct the failure within a specified period. If the applicable relief provisions are not available or cannot be met, all of our income would be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax as described below. We cannot provide assurance that we would qualify for any such relief should we fail the 90% annual gross income requirement or the asset diversification requirements discussed above.

As a RIC, in any taxable year with respect to which we timely distribute at least 90% of the sum of our (i) investment company taxable income (which includes, among other items, dividends, interest and the excess of any net short-term capital gain over net long-term capital loss and other taxable income (other than any net capital gain), reduced by deductible expenses) determined without regard to the deduction for dividends and 

distributions paid and (ii) net tax exempt interest income (which is the excess of our gross tax exempt interest income over certain disallowed deductions) (the &#147;Annual Distribution Requirement&#148;), we (but not our stockholders) generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on investment company taxable income and net capital gain (generally, net long-term capital gain in excess of short-term capital loss) that we distribute to our stockholders. We intend to distribute annually all or substantially all of such income on a timely basis. To the extent that we retain our net capital gain for investment or any investment company taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the regular corporate income tax rates. We may choose to retain our net capital gains for investment or any investment company taxable income, and pay the associated federal corporate income tax, including the federal excise tax described below.

Certain amounts not distributed during a calendar year are subject to a nondeductible four percent U.S. federal excise tax payable by us. To avoid this tax, we would need to distribute (or be deemed to have distributed) during each calendar year an amount equal to the sum of:

(1) at least 98 percent of our ordinary income (not taking into account any capital gains or losses) for the calendar year; 

(2) at least 98.2 percent of the amount by which our capital gains exceed our capital losses (adjusted for certain ordinary losses) for a one-year period generally ending on October 31 of the calendar year (unless an election is made by us to use our taxable year); and 

(3) certain undistributed amounts from previous years on which we paid no U.S. federal income tax. 

While we intend to distribute any income and capital gains in the manner necessary to minimize imposition of the four percent federal excise tax, sufficient amounts of our taxable income and capital gains may not be distributed to avoid entirely the imposition of the tax. In that event, we will be liable for the tax only on the amount by which we do not meet the foregoing distribution requirement.

If, in any particular taxable year, we do not satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement or otherwise were to fail to qualify as a RIC (for example, because we fail the 90% annual gross income requirement described above), and relief is not available as discussed above, all of our taxable income (including our net capital gains) will be subject to tax at regular corporate rates without any deduction for distributions to stockholders, and distributions generally will be taxable to the stockholders as ordinary dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits.

We may decide to be taxed as a regular corporation even if we would otherwise qualify as a RIC if we determine that treatment as a corporation for a particular year would be in our best interests.

As a RIC, we are permitted to carry forward a net capital loss realized in a taxable year beginning before December 23, 2010 to offset our capital gain, if any, realized during the eight years following the year of the loss. A capital loss carryforward realized in a taxable year beginning before December 23, 2010 is treated as a short-term capital loss in the year to which it is carried. We are permitted to carry forward a net capital loss realized in taxable years beginning on or after December 23, 2010 to offset capital gain indefinitely. For net capital losses realized in taxable years beginning on or after December 23, 2010, the excess of our net short-term capital loss over our net long-term capital gain is treated as a short-term capital loss arising on the first day of our next taxable year and the excess of our net long-term capital loss over our net short-term capital gain is treated as a long-term capital loss arising on the first day of our next taxable year. If future capital gain is offset by carried forward capital losses, such future capital gain is not subject to fund-level U.S. federal income tax, regardless of whether they are distributed to stockholders. Accordingly, we do not expect to distribute any such offsetting capital gain. A RIC cannot carry back or carry forward any net operating losses.

Investment Structure 

Once we determine that a prospective portfolio company is suitable for a direct investment, we work with the management of that company and its other capital providers, including senior and junior lenders, and equity holders, to structure an investment. We negotiate among these parties to agree on how our investment is expected to be structured relative to the other capital in the portfolio company&#146;s capital structure.

Leveraged Loans 

We structure our investments primarily as secured leveraged loans. Leveraged loans are generally senior debt instruments that rank ahead of subordinated debt of the portfolio company. Leveraged loans generally have the benefit of security interests on the assets of the portfolio company, which may rank ahead of, or be junior to, other security interests.

High-Yield Securities 

The Company&#146;s portfolio currently includes high-yield securities and the Company may invest in high-yield securities in the future. High-yield securities have historically experienced greater default rates than has been the case for investment grade securities and are generally rated below investment grade by one or more nationally recognized statistical rating organizations or will be unrated but of comparable credit quality to obligations rated below investment grade, and have greater credit and liquidity risk than more highly rated obligations. High-yield securities are generally unsecured and may be subordinate to other obligations of the obligor and are often issued in connection with leveraged acquisitions or recapitalizations in which the issuers incur a substantially higher amount of indebtedness than the level at which they had previously operated. The Company&#146;s portfolio also includes mezzanine investments which are generally unsecured and rated below investment grade. Mezzanine investments of the type in which the Company invests in are primarily privately negotiated subordinated debt securities often issued in connection with leveraged transactions, such as management buyouts, acquisitions, re-financings, recapitalizations and later stage growth capital financings, and are generally accompanied by related equity participation features such as options, warrants, preferred and common stock. In some cases, our debt investments may provide for a portion of the interest payable to be paid-in-kind interest. To the extent interest is paid-in-kind, it will be payable through the increase of the principal amount of the obligation by the amount of interest due on the then-outstanding aggregate principal amount of such obligation.

Warrants, Options and Minority Equity 

In some cases, we will also receive nominally priced warrants or options to buy a minority equity interest in the portfolio company in connection with a loan. As a result, if a portfolio company appreciates in value, we may achieve additional investment return from this equity interest. We may structure such warrants to include provisions protecting our rights as a minority-interest holder, as well as a &#147;put,&#148; or right to sell such securities back to the issuer, upon the occurrence of specified events. In many cases, we may also seek to obtain registration rights in connection with these equity interests, which may include demand and &#147;piggyback&#148; registration rights.

Distressed Debt 

The Company&#146;s portfolio currently includes distressed debt investments and the Company is authorized to continue to invest in the securities and other obligations of distressed and bankrupt issuers, including debt obligations that are in covenant or payment default. As of December 31, 2015, two of the Company&#146;s debt investments were in non-accrual status. The Company does not anticipate distressed debt to be a significant part of its ongoing investment strategy. Such investments generally trade significantly below par and are considered speculative. The repayment of defaulted obligations is subject to significant uncertainties. Defaulted obligations might be repaid only after lengthy workout or bankruptcy proceedings, during which the issuer might not make any interest or other payments. Typically such workout or bankruptcy proceedings result in only partial recovery of cash payments or an exchange of the defaulted obligation for other debt or equity securities of the issuer or its affiliates, which may in turn be illiquid or speculative.

Opportunistic Investments 

Opportunistic investments may include, but are not limited to, investments in debt securities of all kinds and at all levels of the capital structure and may include equity securities of public companies that are thinly traded, emerging market debt, structured finance vehicles such as CLO funds and debt of middle-market companies located outside the United States. We do not intend such investments to be our primary focus.

We tailor the terms of each investment to the facts and circumstances of the transaction and the prospective portfolio company, negotiating a structure that protects our rights and manages our risk while creating incentives 

for the portfolio company to achieve its business plan and improve its operating results. We seek to limit the downside potential of our investments by:

- requiring a total return on our investments (including both interest and potential equity appreciation) that we believe will compensate us appropriately for credit risk; 

- negotiating covenants in connection with our investments that afford our portfolio companies as much flexibility in managing their businesses as possible, consistent with the preservation of our capital. Such restrictions may include affirmative and negative covenants, default penalties, lien protection, change of control provisions and board rights, including either observation or rights to a seat on the board of directors under some circumstances; and 

- selecting investments that we believe have a very low probability of loss. 

We expect to hold most of our investments to maturity or repayment, but we may sell some of our investments earlier if a liquidity event occurs, such as a sale, recapitalization or worsening of the credit quality of the portfolio company.

Code of Ethics 

We and the Advisor have each adopted a code of ethics pursuant to Rule 17j-1 under the 1940 Act and Rule 204A-1 under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the &#147;Advisers Act&#148;), respectively, that establishes procedures for personal investments and restricts certain transactions by our personnel. Our codes of ethics generally do not permit investments by our employees in securities that may be purchased or held by us. You may read and copy these codes of ethics at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 (800) SEC-0330. In addition, each code of ethics is available on the EDGAR Database on the SEC&#146;s Internet site at http://www.sec.gov . You may also access the codes of ethics by going to our website at http://investors.tcpcapital.com/ .

Compliance Policies and Procedures 

We and the Advisor have adopted and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to detect and prevent violation of the federal securities laws. We are required to review these compliance policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation and to designate a chief compliance officer to be responsible for their administration. Elizabeth Greenwood currently serves as our chief compliance officer.

Proxy Voting Policies and Procedures 

We have delegated our proxy voting responsibility to our investment adviser. A summary of the Proxy Voting Policies and Procedures of the Advisor are set forth below. The guidelines are reviewed periodically by the adviser and our non-interested directors, and, accordingly, are subject to change.

The Advisor is registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and has a fiduciary duty to act solely in the best interests of its clients. As part of this duty, it recognizes that it must vote securities held by its clients in a timely manner free of conflicts of interest. These policies and procedures for voting proxies for investment advisory clients are intended to comply with Section 206 of, and Rule 206(4)-6 under, the Advisers Act.

Our investment adviser votes proxies relating to our portfolio securities in the best interest of our stockholders. The Advisor reviews on a case-by-case basis each proposal submitted for a proxy vote to determine its impact on our investments. Although it generally votes against proposals that may have a negative impact on our investments, it may vote for such a proposal if there exists compelling long-term reasons to do so.

The proxy voting decisions of the Advisor are made by the senior officers who are responsible for monitoring each of our investments. To ensure that our vote is not the product of a conflict of interest, it requires that: (i) anyone involved in the decision making process disclose to the managing member any potential conflict that he or she is aware of and any contact that he or she has had with any interested party regarding a proxy vote; and (ii) employees involved in the decision making process or vote administration are prohibited from revealing how we intend to vote on a proposal in order to reduce any attempted influence from interested parties.

You may obtain information about how we voted proxies by making a written request for proxy voting information to: Tennenbaum Capital Partners, LLC, 2951 28 th Street, Suite 1000, Santa Monica, CA 90405, Attention: Investor Relations.

Privacy Principles 

We are committed to maintaining the privacy of our stockholders and to safeguarding their non-public personal information. The following information is provided to help you understand what personal information we collect, how we protect that information and why, in certain cases, we may share information with select other parties.

Generally, we do not receive any non-public personal information relating to our stockholders, although certain non-public personal information of our stockholders may become available to us. We do not disclose any non-public personal information about our stockholders or former stockholders to anyone, except as permitted by law or as is necessary in order to service stockholder accounts (for example, to a transfer agent or third-party administrator).

We restrict access to non-public personal information about our stockholders to employees of the Advisor and its affiliates with a legitimate business need for the information. We maintain physical, electronic and procedural safeguards designed to protect the non-public personal information of our stockholders.

Investment Management Agreements 

The Holding Company and the Operating Company have entered into separate but substantially identical investment management agreements with the Advisor, under which the Advisor, subject to the overall supervision of our respective boards of directors, manages the day-to-day operations and provides investment advisory services to the Holding Company and the Operating Company. In addition, pursuant to the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement, the General Partner directs and executes the day-to-day operational activities of the Operating Company. For providing these services, the Advisor receives a base management fee and, in addition, the Advisor or the General Partner may receive incentive compensation.

The base management fee is currently paid by the Operating Company to the Advisor and the incentive compensation, if any, is paid by the Operating Company to the General Partner or the Advisor. The Holding Company, therefore, indirectly bears these amounts, which are reflected in our consolidated financial statements. If the Operating Company is terminated or for any other reasons incentive compensation is not paid by the Operating Company, such amounts will be paid directly by the Holding Company to the Advisor pursuant to its investment management agreement with the Advisor.

Under the terms of our investment management agreements, the Advisor:

- determines the composition of our portfolio, the nature and timing of the changes to our portfolio and the manner of implementing such changes; 

- identifies, evaluates and negotiates the structure of the investments we make (including performing due diligence on our prospective portfolio companies); and 

- closes, monitors and administers the investments we make, including the exercise of any voting or consent rights. 

The Advisor&#146;s services under the investment management agreements are not exclusive, and it is free to furnish similar services to other entities so long as its services to us are not impaired.

Pursuant to our investment management agreements, we pay the Advisor compensation for investment advisory and management services consisting of base management compensation and a two-part incentive compensation.

Management Fee . The base management fee is calculated at an annual rate of 1.5% of the Holding Company&#146;s total assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents) payable quarterly in arrears. For purposes of calculating the base management fee, &#147;total assets&#148; is determined without deduction for any borrowings or other liabilities. The base management fee is calculated based on the value of our total assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents) at the end of the most recently completed calendar quarter. The base management fee for any partial quarter is appropriately pro-rated.

Incentive Compensation . We also pay incentive compensation to the Advisor or the General Partner. Under the investment management agreements and the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement, no incentive compensation was incurred until after January 1, 2013.

Beginning January 1, 2013, the incentive compensation equals the sum of (1) 20% of all ordinary income since that date and (2) 20% of all net realized capital gains (net of any net unrealized capital depreciation) since that date, with each component being subject to a total return requirement of 8% of contributed common equity annually. The incentive compensation initially is an equity allocation to the General Partner under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement. If the Operating Company is terminated or for any other reasons incentive compensation is not distributed by the Operating Company, it would be paid pursuant to the investment management agreement between the Holding Company and the Advisor.

The incentive compensation has two components, ordinary income and capital gains. Each component is payable or distributable quarterly in arrears (or upon termination of the Advisor as the investment manager or the General Partner as the general partner of the Operating Company, as of the termination date) beginning January 1, 2013 and calculated as follows:

Each of the two components of incentive compensation is separately subject to a total return limitation. Thus, notwithstanding the following provisions, we are not be obligated to pay or distribute any ordinary income incentive compensation or any capital gains incentive compensation if our cumulative total return does not exceed an 8% annual return on daily weighted average contributed common equity. If our cumulative annual total return is above 8%, the total cumulative incentive compensation we pay will not be more than 20% of our cumulative total return, or, if lower, the amount of our cumulative total return that exceeds the 8% annual rate.

Subject to the above limitation, the ordinary income component is the amount, if positive, equal to 20% of the cumulative ordinary income before incentive compensation, less cumulative ordinary income incentive compensation previously paid or distributed.

Subject to the above limitation, the capital gains component is the amount, if positive, equal to 20% of the cumulative realized capital gains (computed net of cumulative realized losses and cumulative net unrealized capital depreciation), less cumulative capital gains incentive compensation previously paid or distributed. For assets held on January 1, 2013, capital gain, loss and depreciation are measured on an asset by asset basis against the value as of December 31, 2012. The capital gains component is paid or distributed in full prior to payment or distribution of the ordinary income component.

For purposes of the foregoing computations and the total return limitation, the following definitions apply:

- &#147;cumulative&#148; means amounts for the period commencing January 1, 2013 and ending as of the applicable calculation date . 

- &#147;contributed common equity&#148; means the value of net assets attributable to our common stock as of December 31, 2012 plus the proceeds to us of all issuances of common stock less (A) offering costs of any of our securities or leverage facilities, (B) all distributions by us representing a return of capital and (C) the total cost of all repurchases of our common stock by us, in each case after December 31, 2012 and through the end of the preceding calendar quarter in question, in each case as determined on an accrual and consolidated basis. 

- &#147;ordinary income before incentive compensation&#148; means our interest income, dividend income and any other income (including any other fees, such as commitment, origination, structuring, diligence, managerial assistance and consulting fees or other fees that we receive from portfolio companies) during the period, (i) minus our operating expenses during the period (including the base management fee, expenses payable under the administration agreement, any interest expense and any dividends paid on any issued and outstanding preferred stock), (ii) plus increases and minus decreases in net assets not treated as components of income, operating expense, gain, loss, appreciation or depreciation and not treated as contributions or distributions in respect of common equity, and (iii) without reduction for any incentive compensation and any organization or offering costs, in each case determined on an accrual and consolidated basis. 

- &#147;total return&#148; means the amount equal to the combination of ordinary income before incentive compensation, realized capital gains and losses and unrealized capital appreciation and depreciation of the Company for the period, in each case determined on an accrual and consolidated basis. 

If our total return does not exceed the total return limitation, the limitation will not have the effect of eliminating the possibility of paying such incentive compensation, but rather will postpone any incentive compensation until our cumulative annual total return exceeds the 8% threshold. The nature of the total return limitation may also make it easier for the Advisor to earn incentive compensation in higher interest rate environments or if our net asset value has increased.

Total Return Limitation (based on cumulative annual total return) 

&#8201; 

Percentage of ordinary income and net realized capital gain separately payable at various levels of total return. 

The financial highlights in the notes to our financial statements include a calculation of total return based on the change in the market value of our shares. The financial highlights in the notes to our financial statements also include a calculation of total return based on the change in our net asset value from period to period. The total return limitation for purposes of the incentive compensation calculations is based on the stated elements of return: ordinary income before incentive compensation, realized capital gain and loss and unrealized capital appreciation and depreciation. It differs from the total return based on the market value or net asset value of our shares in that it is a cumulative measurement that is compared to our daily weighted-average contributed common equity rather than a periodic measurement that is compared to our net asset value or market value, and in that it excludes incentive compensation.

Examples of Incentive Compensation Calculation 

Example 1: Income Portion of Incentive Compensation: 

Assumptions 

- Total return limitation (1) = 8% 

- Management fee (2) = 1.5% 

- Other expenses (legal, accounting, custodian, transfer agent, etc.) (3) = 1% 

Alternative 1 

Additional Assumptions 

- cumulative gross ordinary income (including interest, dividends, fees, etc.) = 11.5% 

- cumulative ordinary income before incentive compensation (gross ordinary income-(management fee + other expenses)) = 9% 

- cumulative annual total return = 7% 

- prior ordinary income incentive compensation = 0% 

Cumulative total return does not exceed total return limitation, therefore there is no income incentive compensation.

(1) Represents 8.0% annualized total return limitation. 

(2) Represents 1.5% annualized management fee, assuming no liabilities. 

(3) Excludes organizational and offering costs. 

Alternative 2 

Additional Assumptions 

- cumulative gross ordinary income (including interest, dividends, fees, etc.) = 11% 

- cumulative ordinary income before incentive compensation (gross ordinary income — (management fee + other expenses)) = 8.5% 

- cumulative annual total return = 9.5% 

- prior ordinary income incentive compensation = 0% 

Cumulative ordinary income before incentive compensation is positive and the cumulative total return exceeds the total return limitation, therefore there is income incentive compensation.

Income incentive compensation = ((20% x ordinary income before incentive compensation) but not more than ((100% x (cumulative total return up to 10%—8% total return limitation)) + (20% x cumulative total return above 10%)))

= ((20% x 8.5%) or, if less, ((100% x (9.5% — 8%) + (20% x 0%)))

= 1.7% or, if less, 1.5%

= 1.5%

Alternative 3 

Additional Assumptions 

- cumulative gross ordinary income (including interest, dividends, fees, etc.) = 15.5% 

- cumulative ordinary income before incentive compensation (gross ordinary income — (management fee + other expenses)) = 13% 

- cumulative annual total return = 18% 

- prior ordinary income incentive compensation = 1% 

Cumulative ordinary income before incentive compensation is positive and cumulative total return exceeds the total return limitation, therefore there is income incentive compensation.

Income incentive compensation = ((20% x ordinary income before incentive compensation) but not more than ((100% x (cumulative total return up to 10% — 8% total return limitation)) + (20% x cumulative total return above 10%))), less income incentive compensation previously paid

= ((20% x 13%) or, if less, ((100% x (10% — 8%) + (20% x (18% — 10%)))—1%

= (2.6% or, if less, ((2% + (20% x 8%))) — 1%

= (2.6% or, if less, (2% + 1.6%)) — 1%

= (2.6% or, if less, 3.6%) — 1%

= 1.6%

Note that due to the priority of capital gains compensation over ordinary income compensation, had the 5%(4) of cumulative unrealized capital gains been realized, the capital gains incentive compensation would have been 1% (i.e. 20% x 5%) and would have reduced ordinary income compensation from 1.6% to 0.6%. Further, if there had been 1.6% or more of prior capital gains compensation, the ordinary income compensation payment would have been zero.

(4) 5% of cumulative unrealized capital gains = 18% cumulative annual total return — 13% cumulative ordinary income before incentive compensation. 

Example 2: Capital Gains Portion of Incentive Compensation: 

Alternative 1: 

Assumptions 

- Year 1: $20 million investment made in Company A (&#147;Investment A&#148;), and $30 million investment made in Company B (&#147;Investment B&#148;). 

- Year 2: Investment A sold for $50 million and fair market value, or FMV, of Investment B determined to be $32 million. Cumulative annual total return of 40%. 

- Year 3: FMV of Investment B determined to be $25 million. Cumulative annual total return of 15%. 

- Year 4: Investment B sold for $31 million. Cumulative annual total return of 10%. 

The capital gains portion of the incentive compensation would be:

- Year 1: None. 

- Year 2: Capital gains incentive compensation of $6 million ($6 million = $30 million realized capital gains on sale of Investment A multiplied by 20% and total return limitation satisfied). 

- Year 3: None; no realized capital gains. 

- Year 4: Capital gains incentive compensation of $0.2 million ($31 million cumulative realized capital gains multiplied by 20%, less $6 million of capital gains incentive compensation paid in year 2 and total return limitation satisfied). 

Alternative 2 

Assumptions 

- Year 1: $20 million investment made in Company A (&#147;Investment A&#148;), $30 million investment made in Company B (&#147;Investment B&#148;) and $25 million investment made in Company C (&#147;Investment C&#148;). 

- Year 2: Investment A sold for $50 million, FMV of Investment B determined to be $25 million and FMV of Investment C determined to be $25 million. Cumulative annual total return of 15%. 

- Year 3: FMV of Investment B determined to be $27 million and Investment C sold for $30 million. Cumulative annual total return of 7%. 

- Year 4: FMV of Investment B determined to be $35 million. Cumulative annual total return of 20%. 

- Year 5: Investment B sold for $40 million. Cumulative annual total return of 20%. 

The capital gains portion of the incentive compensation would be:

- Year 1: None. 

- Year 2: Capital gains incentive compensation of $5 million; 20% multiplied by $25 million ($30 million realized capital gains on Investment A less $5 million unrealized capital depreciation on Investment B, and the total return limitation is satisfied). 

- Year 3: None as the total return limitation is not satisfied. 

- Year 4: Capital gains incentive compensation of $2 million ($35 million cumulative realized capital gains (including $5 million of realized capital gains from year 3 at a time when the total return limitation was not satisfied and no cumulative unrealized capital depreciation) multiplied by 20%, less $5 million capital gains incentive compensation paid in year 2, and the total return limitation is satisfied). 

- Year 5: Capital gains incentive compensation of $2 million ($45 million cumulative realized capital gains multiplied by 20%, less $7 million in capital gains incentive compensation paid in years 2 and 4, and the total return limitation is satisfied). 

Payment of our expenses 

All investment professionals and staff of the Advisor, when and to the extent engaged in providing investment advisory and management services, and the compensation and routine overhead expenses of such personnel allocable to such services (including health insurance, 401(k) plan benefits, payroll taxes and other compensation related matters), are provided and paid for by the Advisor. We bear all other costs and expenses of our operations and transactions, including those relating to:

- our organization; 

- calculating our net asset value and net asset value per share (including the cost and expenses of any independent valuation firm); 

- expenses, including travel expense, incurred by the Advisor or payable to third parties in performing due diligence on prospective portfolio companies, monitoring our investments and, if necessary, enforcing our rights; 

- interest payable on debt, if any, incurred to finance our investments; 

- the costs of all future offerings of common stock and other securities, if any; 

- the base management fee and any incentive management fee; 

- distributions on our shares; 

- administration fees payable under our administration agreement; 

- transfer agent and custody fees and expenses; 

- the allocated costs incurred by the General Partner as our Administrator in providing managerial assistance to those portfolio companies that request it; 

- amounts payable to third parties relating to, or associated with, evaluating, making and disposing of investments; 

- brokerage fees and commissions; 

- registration fees; 

- listing fees; 

- taxes; 

- director fees and expenses; 

- costs of preparing and filing reports or other documents with the SEC; 

- the costs of any reports, proxy statements or other notices to our stockholders, including printing costs; 

- costs of holding stockholder meetings; 

- our fidelity bond; 

- directors and officers/errors and omissions liability insurance, and any other insurance premiums; 

- litigation, indemnification and other non-recurring or extraordinary expenses; 

- direct costs and expenses of administration and operation, including audit and legal costs; 

- dues, fees and charges of any trade association of which we are a member; and 

- all other expenses reasonably incurred by us or the Administrator in connection with administering our business, such as the allocable portion of overhead under our administration agreement, including rent and other allocable portions of the cost of certain of our officers and their respective staffs. 

From time to time, the Advisor may pay amounts owed by us to third party providers of goods or services. We will subsequently reimburse the Advisor for such amounts paid on our behalf.

Limitation of liability and indemnification 

The investment management agreements provide that the Advisor and its officers, directors, employees and affiliates are not liable to us or any of our stockholders for any act or omission by it or its employees in the supervision or management of our investment activities or for any loss sustained by us or our stockholders, except that the foregoing exculpation does not extend to any act or omission constituting willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of its obligations under the investment management agreement. The investment management agreements also provide for indemnification by us of the Advisor&#146;s members, directors, officers, employees, agents and control persons for liabilities incurred by it in connection with their services to us, subject to the same limitations and to certain conditions.

Board and shareholder approval of the investment management agreements 

Our board of directors held an in-person meeting on May 6, 2015, in order to consider and reapprove our investment management agreements. In its consideration of the investment management agreement, the board of directors focused on information it had received relating to, among other things: (a) the nature, quality and extent of the advisory and other services to be provided to us by the Advisor; (b) comparative data with respect to advisory fees or similar expenses paid by other business development companies with similar investment objectives; (c) our financial performance, operating expenses and expense ratio compared to business development companies with similar investment objectives; (d) any existing and potential sources of indirect income to the Advisor from its relationships with us and the profitability of those relationships; (e) information about the services performed and the personnel performing such services under the investment management agreements; (f) the organizational capability and financial condition of the Advisor and its affiliates; (g) the Advisor&#146;s practices regarding the selection and compensation of brokers that execute our portfolio transactions and the brokers&#146; provision of brokerage and research services to our investment advisor; and (h) the possibility of obtaining similar services from other third party service providers or through an internally managed structure.

Based on the information reviewed and the discussions, the board of directors, including a majority of the non-interested directors, concluded that the investment management fee rates are reasonable in relation to the services to be provided.

Duration and termination 

The investment management agreements will remain in effect from year to year if approved annually by our board of directors or by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities, including, in either case, approval by a majority of our directors who are not interested persons. The investment management agreements will automatically terminate in the event of its assignment. The investment management agreements may be terminated by either party without penalty upon not less than 60 days written notice to the other. Any termination by us must be authorized either by our board of directors or by vote of our stockholders. See &#147;Risk Factors — Risks related to our business — We are dependent upon senior management personnel of the Advisor for our future success, and if the Advisor is unable to retain qualified personnel or if the Advisor loses any member of its senior management team, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed.&#148;

Administration Agreement 

We have entered into administration agreements with the Administrator, which we refer to as the administration agreement, under which the Administrator provides administrative services to us. The Administrator provides services including, but not limited to, the arrangement for the services of, and the overseeing of, custodians, depositories, transfer agents, dividend disbursing agents, other stockholder servicing agents, accountants, attorneys, underwriters, brokers and dealers, corporate fiduciaries, insurers, banks, stockholders and such other persons in any such other capacity deemed to be necessary or desirable. The Administrator also makes reports to the board of its performance of obligations under the administration agreement and furnishes advice and recommendations with respect to such other aspects of our business and affairs that we determine to be desirable. The Administrator is responsible for our financial and other records that are required to be maintained and prepares all reports and other materials required by any agreement or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory authority, including reports on Forms 8-K, 10-Q, 10-K and periodic reports to stockholders, determining the amounts available for distribution 

as dividends and distributions to be paid by us to our stockholders, reviewing and implementing any share purchase programs authorized by the board, maintaining or overseeing the maintenance of our books and records as required under the 1940 Act, and maintaining (or overseeing maintenance by other persons) such other books and records required by law or for our proper operation. For providing these services, facilities and personnel, we reimburse the Administrator for expenses incurred by the Administrator in performing its obligations under the administration agreement, including our allocable portion of overhead under the administration agreement and the cost of certain of our officers and the Administrator&#146;s administrative staff and providing, at our request and on our behalf, significant managerial assistance to our portfolio companies to which we are required to provide such assistance. From time to time, the Administrator may pay amounts owed by us to third-party providers of goods or services. We subsequently reimburse the Administrator for such amounts paid on our behalf.

Leverage 

Our leverage program is comprised of $116.0 million in available debt under a senior secured revolving credit facility issued by the Operating Company (the &#147;SVCP Revolver&#148;), a $100.5 million term loan issued by the Operating Company (the &#147;Term Loan&#148; and together with the SVCP Revolver, the &#147;SVCP Facility&#148;), $350.0 million in available debt under a senior secured revolving credit facility issued by TCPC Funding (the &#147;TCPC Funding Facility,&#148;), $108.0 million in convertible senior unsecured notes issued by the Holding Company (the &#147;Convertible Notes&#148;) and $75.0 million in committed leverage from the SBA (the &#147;SBA Program&#148; and, together with the SVCP Facility, the TCPC Funding Facility and the Convertible Notes, the &#147;Leverage Program&#148;). Prior to the repurchase and retirement of the remaining preferred interests on September 3, 2015, the Leverage Program also included amounts outstanding under a preferred equity facility issued by the Operating Company (the &#147;Preferred Interests&#148;).

The SVCP Facility matures on July 31, 2018 and bore interest at an annual rate equal to 0.44% plus either LIBOR or the lender&#146;s cost of funds (subject to a cap of LIBOR plus 20 basis points) through July 31, 2014. Advances under the SVCP Facility for periods from July 31, 2014 through September 3, 2015 bore interest at an annual rate equal to 2.50% plus either LIBOR or the lender&#146;s cost of funds (subject to a cap of LIBOR plus 20 basis points). Advances under the SVCP Facility from September 3, 2015 through July 31, 2016 bear interest at an annual rate equal to 1.75% plus either LIBOR or the lender&#146;s cost of funds (subject to a cap of LIBOR plus 20 basis points). Advances under the SVCP Facility from July 31, 2016 through the maturity date of the facility will bear interest at an annual rate of 2.50% plus either LIBOR or the lender&#146;s cost of funds (subject to a cap of LIBOR plus 20 basis points). In addition to amounts due on outstanding debt, the SVCP Revolver accrues commitment fees of 0.20% per annum on the unused portion of the facility, or 0.25% per annum when less than $46.4 million in borrowings are outstanding. 

The TCPC Funding Facility matures on March 6, 2020, subject to extension by the lender at the request of TCPC Funding, and contains an accordion feature which allows for expansion of the facility up to $400.0 million subject to consent from the lender and other customary conditions. Borrowings under the TCPC Funding Facility bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus either 2.25% or 2.50% per annum subject to certain funding requirements, plus an administrative fee of 0.25% per annum. In addition to amounts due on outstanding debt, the facility accrues commitment fees of 0.50% per annum on the unused portion of the facility, or 0.75% per annum when the unused portion is greater than 33.0% of the total facility, plus an administrative fee of 0.25% per annum. 

On June 11, 2014, the Company issued $108.0 million of convertible senior unsecured notes that mature on December 15, 2019, unless previously converted or repurchased in accordance with their terms. The Convertible Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company, and rank structurally junior to the SVCP Facility and TCPC Funding Facility. The Company does not have the right to redeem the Convertible Notes prior to maturity. The Convertible Notes bear interest at an annual rate of 5.25%, payable semi-annually.

The SBIC is able to issue up to $75.0 million in SBA Debentures, subject to funded regulatory capital and other customary regulatory requirements. The Operating Company has committed $75.0 million of regulatory capital to the SBIC, $58.0 million of which had been funded at December 31, 2015. SBA Debentures are non-recourse and may be prepaid at any time without penalty. The interest rate on SBA Debentures is fixed at the time of issuance at a market-driven spread over 10-year U.S. Treasury Notes.

The Leverage Program is subject to certain financial or other covenants. As of December 31, 2015, we were in full compliance with such covenants.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes a wide variety of regulatory requirements on publicly-held companies and their insiders. Many of these requirements affect us. For example:

- Pursuant to Rule 13a-14 of the 1934 Act, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer must certify the accuracy of the financial statements contained in our periodic reports; 

- Pursuant to Item 307 of Regulation S-K, our periodic reports must disclose our conclusions about the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures; 

- Pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the 1934 Act, our management must prepare a report regarding its assessment of our internal control over financial reporting; and 

- Pursuant to Item 308 of Regulation S-K and Rule 13a-15 of the 1934 Act, our periodic reports must disclose whether there were significant changes in our internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to review our current policies and procedures to determine whether we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder. We will continue to monitor our compliance with all regulations that are adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and will take actions necessary to ensure that we are in compliance therewith.

