 Item 1. Business 

General 

ZIOPHARM Oncology, Inc. is a biopharmaceutical company seeking to acquire, develop and commercialize, on its own or with partners, a diverse portfolio of cancer therapies that address unmet medical needs through synthetic immuno-oncology. Pursuant to an exclusive channel partner agreement (or Channel Agreement) with Intrexon Corporation, or Intrexon, we obtained certain exclusive rights to Intrexon&#146;s synthetic immuno-oncology platform for use in the field of oncology, which included a clinical stage product candidate, Ad-RTS-IL-12 used with the oral activator veledimex. The synthetic immuno-oncology platform is an industrialized engineering approach for molecular and cell biology and gene control. It employs an inducible gene-delivery system that enables controlled in vivo expression of genes that produce therapeutic proteins to treat cancer. Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex uses this gene delivery system to produce interleukin-12, or IL-12, a potent, naturally occurring anti-cancer protein. 

We have completed two Phase 2 studies evaluating Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex, the first for the treatment of metastatic melanoma, and the second for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. We have announced the initiation of a single-center Phase 1b/2 study following standard chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer and the initiation of a multi-center Phase 1 study in patients with recurrent or progressive glioblastoma (GBM) or Grade III malignant glioma, a form of brain cancer. Both studies are actively enrolling patients. Early clinical data from the GBM trial was presented at the Society for Neuro-Oncology meeting in November 2015, and on February 24, 2016, we announced the successful completion of the initial dosing cohort and that the first patient has been dosed in the next succeeding cohort of the GBM study. The Company also presented information about the ongoing breast cancer trial at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium in December 2015. It is expected there will be an update of the GBM and breast cancer trials at the 2016 ASCO meeting. In addition to Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex as monotherapy, the Company has undertaken pre-clinical studies revealing that this viral-based immunotherapy can be combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors (iCPI) to improve the anti-tumor effect for GBM. These pre-clinical data have been submitted for dissemination at the American Society of Cell and Gene Therapy (ASGCT) in May 2016. These data support the first-in-human application of combining Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex with an iCPI for investigational treatment of GBM which we expect to open in 2016. 

In addition to our synthetic immuno-oncology programs, pursuant to our Channel Agreement, we, together with Intrexon, obtained an exclusive, worldwide license to certain immuno-oncology technologies owned and licensed by The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, or MD Anderson, including technologies relating to novel chimeric antigen receptors, or CARs, natural killer, or NK cells and T cell receptors, or TCRs. We plan to develop genetically modified T cells and other immune cells that will target and kill cancer cells. Control systems are also being developed using Intrexon&#146;s RheoSwitch Therapeutic System &#174; (RTS &#174; ) for receptor expression as well as for the conditional ablation of genetically modified cells using a kill switch. We plan to leverage the synergy between the platforms to accelerate a synthetic immuno-oncology pipeline and programs for the development of allogeneic CAR-T and natural killer (NK) cells that can be used as off-the-shelf (OTS) therapies. During 2015, the Company was in the clinic in collaboration with MD Anderson with three CAR-T therapies all targeting CD19. One of these T cell trials, using second generation technology, will continue in 2016. The Company expects to enter the clinic with an additional CAR-T therapy for myeloid malignancies in 2016. Together with Intrexon, we have research programs evaluating additional CAR targets and CARs co-expressed with cytokines. In addition to developing T cells, the Company expects to enter the clinic in 2016 infusing OTS primary NK cells for investigational therapy of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). The Company has additional interest in OTS products and is conducting a research program for the development of an allogenic CAR-T therapy in 2016. T cell specificity can be redirected not only through CARs, but also T cell receptors (TCRs) and plans to initiate programs investigating T cells genetically modified to express TCR with preclinical studies planned for 2016. We plan to continue to combine Intrexon&#146;s technology suite with our capabilities to 

&#160;

translate science to the patient, and to identify and develop additional products to stimulate or inhibit key pathways, including those used by the body&#146;s immune system, to treat cancer. 

On March 27, 2015, we entered into a global collaboration with Intrexon focused exclusively on chimeric antigen receptor T cell, or CAR-T, products with Ares Trading, or Ares, a biopharmaceutical division of Merck KGaA. Intrexon will share the economic provisions of this collaboration equally with us, including an upfront payment of $115.0 million received in July 2015, milestones and royalties. Under the collaboration Ares already selected two CAR-T targets for which we will perform certain research activities that will, in part, be funded by Ares. Pursuant to the terms of the Exclusive Channel Partner Amendment, or ECP Amendment, we will be responsible for any additional research and development expenditures. Once these candidates reach investigational new drug stage, the programs will be transferred to Ares for clinical development and commercialization. We, together with Intrexon will also independently conduct research and development on other CAR-T candidates, with Ares Trading having the opportunity during clinical development to opt-in to these candidates for additional payments.

On September 28, 2015, the Company entered into a new Exclusive Channel Collaboration with Intrexon to develop treatments for graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), a major complication of allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation, or HSCT, which significantly impairs the quality of life and survival of many recipients. The collaboration will focus on addressing the underlying pathologies of GvHD through engineered cell platforms to express and deliver interleukin-2, or IL-2, a cytokine critical for modulation of the immune system. The Company believes that the combined expertise and knowledge gained from our research programs with Intrexon in adoptive T cell therapies and cytokine modulation for the treatment of cancer positions us well to develop and implement therapeutic approaches addressing an area of high unmet medical need for patients with GvHD. Through the GvHD Agreement, we, together with Intrexon, plan to pursue engineered cell therapy strategies, used either separately or in combination, for targeted treatment of GvHD. The first approach is expected to utilize the infusion of regulatory T cells, or Tregs, conditionally expressing IL-2 utilizing the RheoSwitch platform. The second approach is expected to utilize the deployment of orally-delivered microbe-based ActoBiotics &#174; therapeutics expressing IL-2 to modulate immune function. Allogeneic HSCT is used for the treatment of various diseases including hematological malignancies, immunological deficiencies as well as non-malignant conditions. Approximately 40 to 60% of HSCT recipients develop GvHD, either acute or chronic, when immune (graft) cells in a transplant patient recognize their engrafted host as foreign and attack the patient&#146;s (host) cells. Immunosuppressive agents and systemic steroids routinely used to treat GvHD have limited efficacy and toxicity, defining the need for safer, more effective therapies. Human studies have shown that administration of low-dose subcutaneous IL-2 in patients with steroid-refractory GvHD acts via Tregs to ameliorate its manifestations. 

Enabling Technology 

Synthetic immuno-oncology entails the application of engineering principles to biological systems for the purpose of designing and constructing new biological systems or redesigning/modifying existing biological systems. Biological systems are governed by DNA, the building block of gene programs, which control cellular processes by coding for the production of proteins and other molecules that have a functional purpose and by regulating the activities of these molecules. This regulation occurs via complex biochemical and cellular reactions working through intricate cell signaling pathways, and control over these molecules modifies the output of biological systems. Synthetic immuno-oncology has been enabled by the application of information technology and advanced statistical analysis, also known as bioinformatics, to genetic engineering, as well as by improvements in DNA synthesis. Synthetic immuno-oncology aims to engineer gene-based programs or codes to modify cellular function to achieve a desired biological outcome. Its application is intended to allow more precise control of drug concentration and dose, thereby improving the therapeutic index associated with the resulting drug. A further embodiment of this technology is the ability to eliminate genetically modified immune cells after infusion. 

&#160;

On January 6, 2011, we entered into the Channel Agreement, to develop and commercialize novel DNA-based therapeutics in the field of cancer treatment by combining Intrexon&#146;s synthetic immuno-oncology platform with our capabilities to translate science to the patient. As a result, our DNA synthetic immuno-oncology platform employs an inducible gene-delivery system that enables regulated and controlled delivery of genes that produce therapeutic proteins to treat cancer. The first example of this regulated controlled delivery is achieved by producing IL-12, a potent, naturally occurring anti-cancer protein, under the control of Intrexon&#146;s proprietary biological &#147;switch&#148; to turn on and off (and on and off repeatedly) the therapeutic protein expression at the tumor site. We and Intrexon refer to this &#147;switch&#148; as the RheoSwitch Therapeutic System &#174; or RTS &#174; , platform. Our initial drug candidate being developed using the synthetic immuno-oncology platform is Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex. 

More detailed descriptions of our clinical development plans for each of these programs are set forth below under the caption &#147; Product Candidates.&#148; 

Immuno-oncology 

Immuno-oncology, which typically utilizes a patient&#146;s own immune system to treat cancer, is one of the most actively pursued areas of research by biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies today. Cancer cells contain mutated proteins and may overexpress other proteins usually found in the body at low levels. The immune system typically recognizes unusual or aberrant cell protein expression and eliminates these cells in a highly efficient process known as immune surveillance. Central players in immune surveillance are types of white blood cell known as the T cells and NK cells. In healthy individuals, T cells and NK cells can identify and kill infected or abnormal cells, including cancer cells. Cancer cells develop the ability to evade immune surveillance, which is a key factor in their growth, spread, and persistence. In the recent past, there has been substantial scientific progress in countering these evasion mechanisms using immunotherapies, or therapies that activate the immune system. 

On January 13, 2015, we, together with Intrexon, entered into a license agreement with MD Anderson, which we refer to as the MD Anderson License. Pursuant to the MD Anderson License, we and Intrexon hold an exclusive, worldwide license to certain technologies owned and licensed by MD Anderson including technologies relating to novel CAR+ T cell therapies arising from the laboratory of Laurence Cooper, M.D., Ph.D., who was then a tenured professor at MD Anderson, as well as either co-exclusive or non-exclusive licenses under certain related technologies. 

Combining the non-viral genetic engineering technologies we licensed from MD Anderson together with Intrexon&#146;s industrialized approach to gene engineering and cell control, we believe we can rapidly and efficiently reprogram T cells to express a particular CAR or TCR construct that will enable the T cell and/or NK cell to recognize and target cancer cells. CAR+ T cells target cell surface tumor antigens, such as CD19, that exist on cancer cells and that are independent of human leukocyte antigens, or HLAs, and which we refer to as &#147;public&#148; antigens. TCR-expressing T cells target tumor antigens that are dependent on HLAs and which we refer to as &#147;private&#148; antigens and include neo-antigens. NK cells target tumors with loss or differences of HLAs, or tumors with no defined antigens. Most CAR+ T cell and TCR products currently being developed by competitors are autologous, or derived from the patient&#146;s own mononuclear white blood cells, and gene engineered with viral technology. As a result, the patient&#146;s blood must be harvested, shipped to a manufacturing facility where the isolated mononuclear white blood cells are modified using a retrovirus to express the CAR or TCR, and then shipped back to the hospital and infused into the patient. The process can take several weeks to a month and is very labor intensive and costly. Currently, this complex technique can only be done in sophisticated laboratories. We believe we will be able to manufacture our CAR+ T cells and TCRs using viral and non-viral methods. The latter may result in a reduced cost of manufacturing. We intend to use our gene transfer methods to develop allogeneic treatments that can be used as an OTS treatment. An allogeneic OTS (also referred to as universal donor) treatment would enable a patient to be treated with a CAR-T and/or NK cell product that is created in advance of need from one or more separate healthy donor(s), possibly genetically modified for a tumor type, and 

&#160;

then distributed to multiple points of care. Our non-viral methods, which we believe are customizable, fast and less costly than other approaches, together with our industrialized, scalable engineering approach are expected to enable highly efficient and less costly manufacturing approaches to gene engineered cell-based therapy. In addition, our proprietary RheoSwitch Therapeutic System &#174; and/or kill switches may give us the ability to control in vivo gene expression (on-off-on-off etc.) CAR+ T or TCR cells or NK cells, which we believe could result in significantly lower toxicity compared to other products currently in development. 

Cancer Overview 

Cancer is a group of diseases characterized by either the runaway growth of cells or the failure of cells to die normally. Often, cancer cells spread to distant parts of the body, where they can form new tumors. Cancer can arise in any organ of the body and, according to the American Cancer Society, strikes slightly less than one of every two American men and a little more than one of every three American women at some point in their lives. 

It is reported that there are more than 100 different varieties of cancer. Carcinomas, the most common type of cancer, originate in tissues that cover a surface or line a cavity of the body. Lymphomas are cancers of the lymph system, which is a circulatory system that bathes and cleanses the body&#146;s cells. Leukemias involve blood-forming tissues and blood cells. As their name indicates, brain tumors are cancers that begin in the brain, skin cancers, including melanomas, originate in the skin, while soft tissue sarcoma arises in soft tissue. Cancers are considered metastatic if they spread through the blood or lymphatic system to other parts of the body to form secondary tumors. 

Cancer is caused by a series of mutations (alterations) in genes that control cells&#146; ability to grow and divide. Some mutations are inherited; others arise from environmental factors such as smoking or exposure to chemicals, radiation, or viruses that damage cells&#146; DNA. The mutations cause cells to divide relentlessly or lose their normal ability to die. 

According to the American Cancer Society, it is estimated that about 1,658,370 new cases of cancer are expected to be diagnosed in 2015 and about 589,430 Americans are expected to die from cancer in 2015. The cost of treating cancer is significant. The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality estimates that the direct medical cost of cancer in 2011 was $88.7 billion. 

Cancer Treatments 

Major treatments for cancer include surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and immunotherapy. Newer approaches such as anti-angiogenic and targeted therapies are rapidly evolving. Other treatments for cancer may involve supportive care. While there are many experimental treatments under investigation, including DNA and other immunological-based therapies, we believe the prevalence of cancer will remain a significant unmet medical need. Many therapies, including combination approaches, with different mechanisms of action may be needed to overcome tumor escape. In addition to monotherapy treatment in GBM, the Company&#146;s approach to cancer treatment includes applying multiple modality and multi-delivery approaches that encompasses viral and non-viral mechanisms, differentiating us from many other companies in the field of adoptive cellular therapy today. 

&#160;

Product Candidates 

The following chart identifies our synthetic immuno-oncology product candidates and their current stage of development, each of which are described in more detail below. 

&#160;

Synthetic Immuno-Oncology Programs 

Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex 

Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex has been evaluated in two Phase 2 studies, the first for the treatment of metastatic melanoma, and the second for the treatment of unresectable recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. We are continuing to evaluate Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex, in brain cancer and breast cancer. Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex, our more advanced product candidate, uses our gene delivery system to produce IL-12, a potent, naturally occurring anti-cancer protein. 

More specifically, IL-12 is a potent immunostimulatory cytokine which activates and recruits dendritic cells that facilitate the cross-priming of tumor antigen-specific T cells. We have developed an adenoviral vector, Ad-RTS-IL-12, administered intratumorally under the control of the RheoSwitch Therapeutic System &#174; (RTS) expression platform. Gene expression and subsequent IL-12 protein production is tightly controlled by the activator ligand veledimex. 

GBM and or Grade III malignant glioma are recognized as the most frequent malignant brain tumor in adults and is associated with a particularly dismal prognosis, resulting in a very high unmet medical need. The current standard of care is based on surgical resection to the maximum feasible extent, followed by radiotherapy and concomitant adjuvant temozolomide. This current standard of care is associated with only modest improvements in survival. 

It is estimated that there are nearly 3 million women living in the United States with a history of invasive breast cancer, and an additional 226,870 women were diagnosed in 2012 (Siegel et al, 2012). Approximately 50% of women diagnosed with primary breast cancer will eventually relapse and develop metastatic or advanced disease. In addition, around 10% of patients present with metastatic disease at first diagnosis. The 5-year relative survival rate for women diagnosed with localized breast cancer is 98.6%; survival declines to 83.8% for regional stage and to 23.3% for distant stage. In addition to stage, factors that influence survival include tumor grade, hormone receptor status, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status. 

&#160;

Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex for malignant glioma 

We initiated the Phase 1 study during the second quarter of 2015. On July 23, 2015, the FDA granted orphan drug designation of Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex for the treatment of malignant glioma. Orphan drug designation provides eligibility for a seven-year period of market exclusivity in the United States after product approval, an accelerated review process, accelerated approval where appropriate, grant funding, tax benefits and an exemption from user fees. 

Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex for metastatic breast cancer and melanoma 

We have completed the Phase 2 monotherapy studies in melanoma and breast cancer using Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex. We presented two poster presentations entitled &#147;Demonstration of systemic antitumor immunity via intratumoral regulated expression of IL-12 in advanced breast cancer and melanoma patients&#148; and &#147;Demonstration of systemic antitumor immunity via intratumoral regulated expression of IL-12 as a gene therapy approach to treatment of cancer&#148; at the CRI-CIMT-EATI-AACR Inaugural International Cancer Immunotherapy Conference, Translating Science into Survival on September 16-19, 2015 in NY, NY . 

In June 2015 we began enrolling a multisite gene therapy Phase I trial recruiting patients with recurrent or progressive glioblastoma (GBM) or Grade III malignant glioma. We reported biologic data from this study in our presentation titled &#147;Intratumoral regulated expression of IL-12 as a gene therapy approach to treatment of glioma,&#148; at the Society for Neuro-Oncology (SNO) 20th Annual Scientific Meeting, November 19-22, 2015 in San Antonio, TX, and on February 24, 2016, we announced the successful completion of the initial dosing cohort and that the first patient has been dosed in the next succeeding cohort of the GBM study. We plan to report an update on these patients at the annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) in June 2016. We also plan to report pre-clinical data on combining Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex with iCPI at ASGCT in May 2016. 

On April 27, 2015, we announced the initiation of a Phase 1b/2 study of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 + veledimex following standard chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The study is being conducted at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York and will evaluate improving the patient&#146;s response at 12-weeks. A poster presentation of this study titled &#147;Phase 1b/2 study of intratumoral Ad-RTS-hIL-12 + veledimex in patients with chemotherapy-responsive locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer&#148; was presented at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, in San Antonio, Texas in December 2015. 

CAR-T, NK and TCR Cells 

We are actively pursuing viral and non-viral genetic engineering technologies and approaches to propagation to develop novel CAR+ T, NK and TCR cells. Combining this technology with Intrexon&#146;s industrialized synthetic biologic engineering and clinically tested and validated RTS modules and/or kill switches, represents a differentiated approach to genetically modified T cells and other immune cells, such as NK cells. Employing novel cell engineering techniques and multigenic gene programs, we expect to implement next-generation non-viral and viral adoptive cellular therapies based on designer cytokines, CARs and TCR&#146;s targeting both hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. 

The platform we, together with Intrexon, exclusively licensed from MD Anderson uses the Sleeping Beauty, or SB, non-viral genetic modification system to generate and characterize new CAR-T and TCR designs, which enables a high throughput approach to evaluate the genetically modified immune cells in oncology. In addition, we can rapidly assemble CARs and TCR&#146;s to fashion immuno-receptors that differ in specificity and ability to activate T cells. These CAR-T and TCR molecules are evaluated in a &#147;go/no go&#148; system based on measurements of T cell function, phenotype, and genotype. We believe this non-viral gene transfer using the SB system is unique in the field of oncology and may avoid the expense and manufacturing difficulty associated with creating T cells engineered to express CAR and TCR using viral vectors. After electroporation, the transposon/transposase improves the efficiency of integration of donor plasmids used to express CAR and other transgenes in T cells. Propagation of genetically modified T cells on AaPC may provide a competitive advantage over other 

&#160;

methods of modification. The SB system combined with AaPC can selectively propagate and thus retrieve CAR expressing T cells suitable for human application. The time in culture with AaPC may be shortened to manufacture &#147;minimally-manipulated&#148; T cells within days of gene transfer by electroporation. Furthermore, we are exploring technologies that eliminate the need for in vitro propagation. We are also exploring the use of lentivirus to genetically reprogram T cells with CAR and TCR to redirect T cell specificity. 

The ability to genetically modify immune cells using non-viral and viral-based technologies enables us to express other genes in addition to immunoreceptors (CARs and TCRs) to redirect specificity. For example, we have developed a tethered or membrane-bound form of IL-15 (mbIL-15) which in pre-clinical modeling endows CAR-expressing T cells with an ability to be long-lived. The Company expects to build upon these data to co-express immunoreceptors with cytokines and to leverage its ability to control expression with RTS and/or kill switches. Using this unique set of genetic engineering tools, the company can employ a broad immunotherapy approach against cancer. 

CAR-T 

Through the MD Anderson License, the Company was able to enter the clinic with three CAR-T therapies in 2015 utilizing the non-viral genetic modification capabilities of the SB system. Two of these trials are with &#147;first generation&#148; technologies and one with &#147;second generation&#148; methodology. The latter will continue enrolling in 2016. The Company expects to enter the clinic with an additional CAR-T therapy for myeloid malignancies in 2016. This will be based on co-expressing a CAR (outside of CD19) with a kill switch to eliminate T cells after administration and using lentivirus to genetically modify the T cells. Pre-clinical data including CAR expression, cytotoxicity and IFN- &#103; production are encouraging and the Company is preparing for the clinical study. Development of CAR-T therapies for other hematologic and solid tumor malignancies is also underway with preclinical studies planned throughout 2016. 

The Company expects to conduct a research program for the development of an allogenic CAR-T therapy and plans to initiate programs investigating T cells genetically modified to express TCR with preclinical studies planned for 2016. The primary factor limiting the current deployment of a universal donor product is the potential for GvHD. GvHD occurs if infused allogeneic T cells regard the recipient&#146;s body as foreign. Previous research from Dr. Cooper and colleagues at MD Anderson suggested that &#147;universal&#148; or off the shelf allogeneic T cells generated from one donor could be administered to multiple recipients. This is achieved by genetically editing CAR-expressing T cells to eliminate expression of the endogenous &#097; &#223; TCR, the receptor most responsible for triggering GvHD, without compromising CAR-dependent effector functions. Dr. Cooper and colleagues at MD Anderson also published research which demonstrated that T cells can be permanently modified to eliminate TCR expression, demonstrating how to a priori generate cells from one allogeneic donor for infusion into multiple recipients. These studies represent steps towards our goal of on-demand therapy that can be pre-deployed at multiple sites and infused when needed. The translation of the SB system and AaPC for use in clinical trials has the potential to show how a nimble and cost-effective approach to developing genetically modified T cells can be used to implement clinical trials infusing next-generation T cells with improved therapeutic potential. 

NK Cell 

In addition to T cells, the company is pursuing NK cell therapies for the treatment of cancer. NK cells have advantages over T cell therapies in that killing is independent of a target antigen. Initially, this OTS NK cell treatment will be tested in AML patients; plans are to enter the clinic in 2016. Additional clinical trials which may employ combinations with other therapies will be considered in the future, e.g. for treatment of brain cancer. 

Discovery programs are also underway to explore genetic modification of NK cells for increased tumor killing specificity. We expect to advance these and other exploratory NK cell programs in preclinical studies in 2016. 

&#160;

TCR 

Many of these same genetic engineering technologies can also be applied towards targeting intracellular antigens with TCRs. This approach is particularly important for addressing the complexity of solid tumors. SB is ideally suited for targeting intracellular antigens by TCR as it is cost effective, has rapid manufacturing and is customizable for individual patient therapies with the ability to include multiple TCRs in a single therapy. The company is pursuing discovery programs in TCR therapies for known as well as unknown (or &#147;neoantigen&#148;) targets. The development of an approach to truly create a personalized therapy for each cancer patient based on his/her neoantigens is a long term goal of the company. 

Milestones 

We expect the following milestones to occur in 2016: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Intra-tumoral IL-12 RheoSwitch &#174; programs: &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Clinical update at ASCO 2016 for Phase 1 study of GBM &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Clinical update at a 2016 scientific meeting for Phase 1/2 study in Breast Cancer with standard of care &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Pre-clinical update at ASGCT 2016 meeting for combining with iCPI &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; CAR-T programs: &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Clinical update for our Phase 1 study of next-generation CD19 CAR in 2016 &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Seek approval for a CAR for myeloid malignancies in the first half of 2016 and initiate the clinical study in the second half of 2016. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Initiate CAR+ T cell preclinical studies for other hematological malignancies and solid tumors in 2016 &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Initiate preclinical studies of allogeneic, off-the-shelf T cell studies in 2016 &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; TCR-T programs &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Initiate TCR-modified T cell preclinical studies in 2016 &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; NK cell programs &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Initiate a Phase 1 study of OTS NK cells for AML in 2016 &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; GvHD programs &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Initiate preclinical studies in 2016 We are also evaluating additional potential preclinical candidates and continuing discovery efforts aimed at identifying other potential product candidates under our Channel Agreement with Intrexon. In addition, we may seek to enhance our pipeline in synthetic immuno-oncology through focused strategic transactions, which may include acquisitions, partnerships and in-licensing activities. We are actively seeking to out-license some or all of our remaining small molecule programs to further support our synthetic immuno-oncology efforts. 

GvHD Program 

We, together with Intrexon, are initiating a research program focused on addressing the underlying pathologies of GvHD through its engineered cell platforms. The exclusive collaboration, or the GvHD Program, will focus on the pursuit of the following engineered cell therapy strategies, used either separately or in combination, for the targeted treatment of GvHD: (i) the infusion of regulatory T cell expressing membrane-bound and/or soluble interleukin-2 and (ii) the deployment of orally delivered, genetically modified L. lactis that express interleukin-2 

&#160;

to modulate immune function. We believe these strategies have the potential to broaden the number of patients eligible to receive allogeneic HCST and also increase the number of effective donor/recipient combinations. 

Small Molecule Programs 

In addition to our synthetic immuno-oncology programs we maintain certain rights to three small molecule programs, palifosfamide, darinaparsin and indibulin, all of which we are no longer directly developing. With respect to palifosfamide, in March 2013, we announced that the pivotal Phase 3 study, PICASSO 3, did not meet its primary endpoint of progression-free survival, and that we would terminate our development program in metastatic soft tissue sarcoma. The overall survival endpoint data from MATISSE, the study of palifosfamide in combination with carboplatin and etoposide chemotherapy versus carboplatin and etoposide alone in chemotherapy na&#239;ve patients with metastatic small cell lung cancer, was presented at the annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology in June 2015. We out-licensed palifosfamide to Predictive Therapeutics, Ltd, a privately-held company, on November 17, 2015. Pursuant to our agreement with Predictive Therapeutics we received an upfront payment of $250 thousand, and we are entitled to receive additional clinical and commercial milestone payments, as well as royalties based on net sales. 

With respect to darinaparsin, we have entered into an amended and restated global licensing agreement with Solasia Pharma K.K., or Solasia, on July 31, 2014 granting Solasia an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize darinaparsin, and related organoarsenic molecules, in both intravenous and oral forms in all indications for human use. In exchange, we will be eligible to receive from Solasia development-and sales-based milestones, a royalty on net sales of darinaparsin, once commercialized, and a percentage of any sublicense revenues generated by Solasia. During 2014, we determined to no longer pursue clinical development of indibulin. 

Development Plans 

As of December 31, 2015, we have approximately $140.7 million of cash and cash equivalents. Given our development plans, we anticipate cash resources will be sufficient to fund our operations into the fourth quarter of 2017. This forecast of cash resources is forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties, and the actual amount of our expenses could vary materially and adversely as a result of a number of factors, including the factors discussed in the &#147;Risk Factors&#148; section of this form 10-K and the uncertainties applicable to our forecast for the overall sufficiency of our capital resources. We have based our estimates on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and our expenses could prove to be significantly higher than we currently anticipate. In particular, pursuant to the MD Anderson License, MD Anderson agreed to transfer to us certain existing research programs described in the MD Anderson License and we, together with Intrexon, entered into a research and development agreement pursuant to which we will provide funding for certain research and development activities at MD Anderson for a period of three years from the date of the MD Anderson License, in an amount between $15 and $20 million per year. In addition, we also expect to enter into additional collaboration and technology transfer agreements with third parties to accelerate technology and clinical development of these product candidates. We expect to increase the level of our overall research and development expenses significantly going forward as a result of each of these activities. 

Competition 

The development and commercialization for new products to treat cancer, including the indications we are pursuing is highly competitive, and considerable competition exists from major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and specialty cancer companies. In addition, many of these companies have more experience in preclinical and clinical development, manufacturing, regulatory, and global commercialization. We are also competing with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and private organizations that are conducting research in the field of cancer. Competition for highly qualified employees and their retention is intense, particularly as companies adjust to the current economic environment. 

&#160;

License Agreements, Intellectual Property and Other Agreements 

Our goal is to obtain, maintain, and enforce patent protection for our products, formulations, processes, methods, and other proprietary technologies in order to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of other parties. Our policy is to actively seek the broadest possible intellectual property protection for our product candidates through a combination of contractual arrangements and patents, both in the United States and abroad. 

Exclusive Channel Partner Agreement with Intrexon Corporation for the Cancer Programs 

On January 6, 2011, the Company entered into an Exclusive Channel Partner Agreement, or the Channel Agreement, with Intrexon that governs a &#147;channel partnering&#148; arrangement in which the Company uses Intrexon&#146;s technology to research, develop and commercialize products in which DNA is administered to humans for expression of anti-cancer effectors for the purpose of treatment or prophylaxis of cancer, which the Company collectively refers to as the Cancer Program. This Channel Agreement establishes committees comprised of representatives of the Company and Intrexon that govern activities related to the Cancer Program in the areas of project establishment, chemistry, manufacturing and controls, clinical and regulatory matters, commercialization efforts and intellectual property. 

The Channel Agreement grants the Company a worldwide license to use patents and other intellectual property of Intrexon in connection with the research, development, use, importing, manufacture, sale, and offer for sale of products involving DNA administered to humans for expression of anti-cancer effectors for the purpose of treatment or prophylaxis of cancer, which is collectively referred to as the ZIOPHARM Products. Such license is exclusive with respect to any clinical development, selling, offering for sale or other commercialization of ZIOPHARM Products, and otherwise is non-exclusive. Subject to limited exceptions, the Company may not sublicense these rights without Intrexon&#146;s written consent. 

Under the Channel Agreement, and subject to certain exceptions, the Company is responsible for, among other things, the performance of the Cancer Program, including the development, commercialization and certain aspects of manufacturing of ZIOPHARM Products. Intrexon is responsible for establishing manufacturing capabilities and facilities for the bulk manufacture of products developed under the Cancer Program, certain other aspects of manufacturing and costs of discovery-stage research with respect to platform improvements and costs of filing, prosecution and maintenance of Intrexon&#146;s patents. 

Subject to certain expense allocations and other offsets provided in the Channel Agreement, the Company will pay Intrexon on a quarterly basis 50% of net profits derived in that quarter from the sale of ZIOPHARM Products, calculated on a ZIOPHARM Product-by- ZIOPHARM Product basis. The Company has likewise agreed to pay Intrexon on a quarterly basis 50% of revenue obtained in that quarter from a sublicensor in the event of a sublicensing arrangement. In addition, in partial consideration for each party&#146;s execution and delivery of the Channel Agreement, the Company entered into a stock purchase agreement with Intrexon. 

Upon termination of the Channel Agreement, the Company may continue to develop and commercialize any ZIOPHARM Product that, at the time of termination: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Is being commercialized by the Company; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Has received regulatory approval; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Is a subject of an application for regulatory approval that is pending before the applicable regulatory authority; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Is the subject of at least an ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial (in the case of a termination by Intrexon due to an uncured breach or a voluntary termination by the Company), or an ongoing Phase 1 clinical trial in the field (in the case of a termination by the Company due to an uncured breach or a termination by 

&#160;

&#160; Intrexon following an unconsented assignment by the Company or its election not to pursue development of a Superior Therapy (as defined in the Channel Agreement)). 

The Company&#146;s obligation to pay 50% of net profits or revenue described above with respect to these &#147;retained&#148; products will survive termination of the Channel Agreement. 

On March 27, 2015, the Company and Intrexon entered into an Exclusive Channel Partner Amendment, or ECP Amendment, amending the Channel Agreement. The ECP Amendment modifies the scope of the parties&#146; collaboration under the Channel Agreement in connection with the Ares Trading Agreement discussed below. Pursuant to the ECP Amendment, the chimeric antigen receptor T cell products to be developed and commercialized pursuant to the Ares Trading Agreement shall be included within the Intrexon/ZIOPHARM collaboration under the Channel Agreement. The ECP Amendment provides that Intrexon will pay to the Company fifty percent of all payments Intrexon receives for upfronts, milestones and royalties under the Ares Trading Agreement. 

Exclusive Channel Collaboration Agreement with Intrexon Corporation for Graft-Versus-Host Disease 

On September 28, 2015, the Company, entered into a new Exclusive Channel Collaboration Agreement, or the GvHD Agreement, with Intrexon, whereby the Company will use Intrexon&#146;s technology directed towards in vivo expression of effectors to research, develop and commercialize products for use in the treatment or prevention of graft-versus-host disease, or GvHD. The exclusive collaboration, or the GvHD Program, will focus on the pursuit of the following engineered cell therapy strategies, used either separately or in combination, for the targeted treatment of GvHD: (i) the infusion of regulatory T cell expressing membrane-bound and/or soluble interleukin-2 and (ii) the deployment of orally delivered, genetically modified L. lactis that express interleukin-2 to modulate immune function. The GvHD Agreement establishes committees comprised of Company and Intrexon representatives that will govern activities related to the GvHD Program in the areas of project establishment, chemistry, manufacturing and controls, clinical and regulatory matters, commercialization activities and intellectual property. 

The GvHD Agreement grants the Company a worldwide license to use specified patents and other intellectual property of Intrexon in connection with the research, development, use, importing, manufacture, sale, and offer for sale of products developed under the GvHD Program, or the Products. Such license is exclusive with respect to any clinical development, selling, offering for sale or other commercialization of the Products, and otherwise is non-exclusive. Subject to limited exceptions, the Company may not sublicense the rights described without Intrexon&#146;s written consent. 

Under the GvHD Agreement, and subject to certain exceptions, the Company is responsible for, among other things, the performance of the GvHD Program including development, commercialization and certain aspects of manufacturing of the Products. Among other things, Intrexon is responsible for the costs of establishing manufacturing capabilities and facilities for the bulk manufacture of the Products, certain other aspects of manufacturing, costs of discovery-stage research with respect to platform improvements and costs of filing, prosecution and maintenance of Intrexon&#146;s patents. 

The Company paid Intrexon a technology access fee of $10 million in cash and will reimburse Intrexon for all research and development costs. Subject to certain expense allocations and other offsets provided in the GvHD Agreement, the GvHD Agreement also provides for equal sharing of the profits derived from the sale of the Products. 

During the first 24 months after September 28, 2015, the GvHD Agreement may be terminated by (i) either party in the event of a material breach by the other, except for the failure of the other party to use diligent efforts or to comply with any diligence obligations set forth in the GvHD Agreement and (ii) Intrexon under certain circumstances if the Company assigns its rights under the GvHD Agreement without Intrexon&#146;s consent. Following such twenty-four month period, Intrexon may also terminate the GvHD Agreement if the 

&#160;

Company elects not to pursue the development of the GvHD Program identified by Intrexon that is a &#147;Superior Therapy,&#148; as such term is defined in the GvHD Agreement. Also following such period, the Company may voluntarily terminate the GvHD Agreement upon 90 days&#146; written notice to Intrexon. 

Upon termination of the GvHD Agreement, the Company may continue to develop and commercialize any Product that, at the time of termination: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is being commercialized by the Company, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; has received regulatory approval, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is a subject of an application for regulatory approval that is pending before the applicable regulatory authority, or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is the subject of at least an ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial (in the case of a termination by Intrexon due to a Company uncured breach or a voluntary termination by the Company), or an ongoing Phase 1 clinical trial (in the case of a termination by the Company due to an Intrexon uncured breach or a termination by Intrexon following an unconsented assignment by the Company or the Company&#146;s election not to pursue development of a Superior Therapy). The Company&#146;s obligation to pay 50% of net profits or revenue with respect to these &#147;retained&#148; products will survive termination of the GvHD Agreement. 

The Company has determined that the rights acquired in the GvHD Agreement represent in-process research and development with no alternative future use. Accordingly, the Company recorded a charge of $10.0 million to research and development expense during the year ended December 31, 2015. 

License Agreement&#151;The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center 

On January 13, 2015, the Company, together with Intrexon, entered into a License Agreement, or the MD Anderson License, with The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, or MD Anderson. Pursuant to the MD Anderson License, the Company and Intrexon hold an exclusive, worldwide license to certain technologies owned and licensed by MD Anderson including technologies relating to novel chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapies, non-viral gene transfer systems, genetic modification and/or propagation of immune cells and other cellular therapy approaches, Natural Killer, or NK Cells and T cell receptors, or TCR&#146;s arising from the laboratory of Laurence Cooper, M.D., Ph.D., who became the Chief Executive Officer of the Company on May 7, 2015 and was formerly a tenured professor of pediatrics at MD Anderson and now currently a visiting scientist under that institution&#146;s policies, as well as either co-exclusive or non-exclusive licenses under certain related technologies. 

Pursuant to the terms of the MD Anderson License, MD Anderson received consideration consisting of $50 million in shares of the Company&#146;s common stock (or 10,124,561 shares), and $50 million in shares of Intrexon&#146;s common stock, in each case based on a trailing 20 day volume weighted average of the closing price of the Company&#146;s and Intrexon&#146;s common stock ending on the date prior to the announcement of the entry into the MD Anderson License, collectively referred to as the License Shares, pursuant to the terms of the License Shares Securities Issuance Agreement described below. The License Shares were issued to MD Anderson on March 11, 2015 pursuant to the terms of the MD Anderson License. 

On January 9, 2015, in order to induce MD Anderson to enter into the MD Anderson License on an accelerated schedule, the Company and Intrexon entered into a letter agreement, or the Letter Agreement, pursuant to which MD Anderson received consideration of $7.5 million in shares of the Company&#146;s common stock (or 1,597,602 shares), and $7.5 million in shares of Intrexon&#146;s common stock, in each case based on a trailing 20 day volume weighted average of the closing price of the Company&#146;s and Intrexon&#146;s common stock ending on the date prior to the execution of the Letter Agreement, collectively referred to as the Incentive Shares, in the event that the MD 

&#160;

Anderson License was entered into on or prior to 8:00 am Pacific Time on January 14, 2015. The Incentive Shares were issued to MD Anderson on March 11, 2015 pursuant to the terms of the Incentive Shares Securities Issuance Agreement described below. 

On August 17, 2015, the Company, Intrexon and MD Anderson entered into a research and development agreement, or the Research and Development Agreement, to formalize the scope and process for the transfer by MD Anderson, pursuant to the terms of the MD Anderson License, of certain existing research programs and related technology rights, as well as the terms and conditions for future collaborative research and development of new and ongoing research programs. 

Pursuant to the Research and Development Agreement, the Company, Intrexon and MD Anderson have agreed to form a joint steering committee that will oversee and manage the new and ongoing research programs. As provided under the MD Anderson License, the Company will provide funding for research and development activities in support of the research programs under the Research and Development Agreement for a period of three years and in an amount of no less than $15 million and no greater than $20 million per year. The Company made three quarterly payments totaling an aggregate of $11.25 million under this arrangement. As of December 31, 2015, MD Anderson has used $911 thousand to offset costs incurred pursuant to the MD Anderson License and the Research and Development Agreement. The net balance of $10.3 million is included in other current assets at December 31, 2015. 

The term of the MD Anderson License expires on the last to occur of (a) the expiration of all patents licensed thereunder, or (b) the twentieth anniversary of the date of the License; provided, however, that following the expiration of the term of the MD Anderson License, the Company and Intrexon shall then have a fully-paid up, royalty free, perpetual, irrevocable and sublicensable license to use the licensed intellectual property thereunder. After ten years from the date of the MD Anderson License and subject to a 90-day cure period, MD Anderson will have the right to convert the MD Anderson License into a non-exclusive license if the Company and Intrexon are not using commercially reasonable efforts to commercialize the licensed intellectual property on a case-by-case basis. After five years from the date of the MD Anderson License and subject to a 180-day cure period, MD Anderson will have the right to terminate the MD Anderson License with respect to specific technology(ies) funded by the government or subject to a third party contract if the Company and Intrexon are not meeting the diligence requirements in such funding agreement or contract, as applicable. MD Anderson may also terminate the agreement with written notice upon material breach by the Company and Intrexon, if such breach has not been cured within 60 days of receiving such notice. In addition, the MD Anderson License will terminate upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events for both the Company and Intrexon and may be terminated by the mutual written agreement of the Company, Intrexon and MD Anderson. 

In connection with the License and the issuance of the License Shares and the Incentive Shares, on January 13, 2015, the Company and MD Anderson entered into a Registration Rights Agreement, or the Registration Rights Agreement, pursuant to which the Company agreed to file a &#147;resale&#148; registration statement, or the Registration Statement, registering the resale of the License Shares, the Incentive Shares and any other shares of the Company&#146;s common stock held by MD Anderson on the date that the Registration Statement is filed Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company is obligated to maintain the effectiveness of the Registration Statement until all securities therein are sold or are otherwise can be sold pursuant to Rule 144, without any restrictions. A prospectus supplement under the Company&#146;s already effective registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-201826), was filed on April 1, 2015 in satisfaction of the Company&#146;s obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement. 

The Company has determined that the rights acquired in the MD Anderson License represent in process research and development with no alternative future use. Accordingly, the Company recorded a charge of $67.3 million to research and development expense representing the fair value of the 11,722,163 shares of its common stock on the date the MD Anderson License was executed. 

&#160;

Ares Trading License and Collaboration Agreement 

On March 27, 2015, the Company and Intrexon signed a worldwide License and Collaboration Agreement, or the Ares Trading Agreement, with Ares Trading S.A., or Ares Trading, a company within the biopharmaceutical business of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, through which the parties established a collaboration for the research and development and commercialization of certain products for the prophylactic, therapeutic, palliative or diagnostic use for cancer in humans. 

Under the collaboration, Ares Trading will elect CAR-T targets, of which two have been selected, and for which Ares Trading will provide certain research funding. The Company is responsible for certain research and development expenditures. Once these candidates reach investigational new drug IND stage, the programs will be transferred to Ares Trading for clinical development and commercialization. The Company and Intrexon will also independently conduct research and development on other CAR-T candidates, with Ares Trading having the opportunity during clinical development to opt-in. The Company expects to perform multiple preclinical development programs, each consisting of the development of one product candidate, pursuant to the agreement. 

Intrexon is entitled to receive $5.0 million payable in equal quarterly installments over two years for each identified product candidate, which will be used to fund discovery work. The Company will be responsible for costs exceeding the quarterly installments and all other costs of the preclinical research and development. 

Ares Trading paid a non-refundable upfront fee of $115.0 million to Intrexon as consideration for entry into the Ares Trading Agreement. Pursuant to the ECP Amendment, the Company was entitled to receive 50% of the upfront fee, or $57.5 million, which was received from Intrexon in July 2015. 

The Ares Trading Agreement provides for up to $413.0 million of potential payments for certain development and commercial milestones for each product candidate, and royalties ranging from the lower-single digits to the low-teens of net sales derived from the sale of products developed under agreement. The Ares Trading Agreement also provides for up to $50.0 million of payments upon the achievement of certain technical milestones. Intrexon will pay 50% of all milestone and royalty payments that it receives under the Ares Trading Agreement to the Company pursuant to the ECP Amendment. 

The term of the Ares Trading Agreement commenced in May 2015 and may be terminated by either party in the event of a material breach as defined in the agreement and may be terminated voluntarily by Ares Trading upon 90 days written notice to the Company. 

The Company considered FASB Accounting Standards Codification 605-25, Multiple-Element Arrangements , in evaluating the appropriate accounting for the Ares Trading Agreement. In accordance with this guidance, the Company identified the license and research and development services as the Company&#146;s deliverables in the arrangement. The Company concluded that the license does not have standalone value from the research and development services. Accordingly, the Ares Trading Agreement is accounted for by the Company as a single unit of accounting. The $57.5 million upfront payment received by the Company was recorded as deferred revenue and is being recognized over the estimated period of performance of the research and development services, beginning with the commencement of the research and development services. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, the Company recognized $3.2 million of revenue related to the Ares Trading Agreement. The remaining balance of deferred revenue associated with the upfront payment was $54.3 million, of which $6.4 million is current and $47.9 million is classified as long term at December 31, 2015. 

License Agreements with DEKK-Tec, Inc. and Southern Research Institute 

On October 15, 2004, the Company entered into a license agreement with DEKK-Tec, Inc., or DEKK-Tec, pursuant to which it was granted an exclusive, worldwide license for palifosfamide. All of the Company&#146;s rights and obligations under the DEKK-Tec license agreement was assigned to Predictive Therapeutics, Ltd., in the first quarter of 2016, with the exception of the Company&#146;s obligations under a stock option to acquire 13,808 shares of the Company&#146;s common stock at an exercise price of $0.02 per share, which remains outstanding in accordance with the terms. 

&#160;

On February 5, 2007, the Company exercised an option to enter into an exclusive license agreement with Southern Research Institute, or SRI, for certain isophosphoramide mustard analogs. Under the license agreement, the Company was required to remit minimum annual royalty payments of $25 thousand until the first commercial sale of a licensed product. These payments were made for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013. All of the Company&#146;s remaining rights and obligations under the SRI license agreement were assigned to Predictive Therapeutics, Ltd., in the first quarter of 2016. 

License Agreement with Predictive Therapeutics, Ltd. 

On November 12, 2015, the Company entered into a License Agreement with Predictive Therapeutics, Ltd., or Predictive. Pursuant to the License Agreement, the Company granted Predictive an exclusive license to develop and commercialize palifosfamide. 

In exchange, the Company received an upfront payment of $250 thousand and is entitled to receive additional payments of up to $12.8 million in development-and sales-based milestones, single digit royalty payments on net sales of palifosfamide, once commercialized, and a percentage of any sublicense revenues generated by Predictive. Predictive will be responsible for all costs related to the development, manufacturing and commercialization of palifosfamide. The Company&#146;s Licensors, as defined in the agreement, will receive a portion of all milestone and royalty payments made by Predictive to the Company in accordance with the terms of the Company&#146;s license agreement with the Licensors. 

The $250 thousand upfront payment received in November 2015 is being amortized over the period of the Company&#146;s research and development effort related to transitional services. There are certain deliverables that are included in the License Agreement including transfer of intellectual property and prior research and development results, which are estimated by management to be completed by June 30, 2016. Accordingly, the Company has recorded $50 thousand in revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2015. The remaining deferred revenue balance of $200 thousand at December 31, 2015 has been classified as current. In accordance with the License Agreement with Predictive, the Company is no longer obligated to continue their research and development efforts beyond the transitional services. In the first quarter of 2016, all of the Company&#146;s rights and obligations under the DEKK-Tec and SRI license agreements were assigned to Predictive Therapeutics, Ltd., with the exception of the Company&#146;s obligation to DEKK-Tec under a stock option to acquire 13,808 shares of the Company&#146;s common stock at an exercise price of $0.02 per share, which remains outstanding in accordance with the terms. 

Patent and Technology License Agreement&#151;The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center and the Texas A&#38;M University System. 

On August 24, 2004, the Company entered into a patent and technology license agreement with MD Anderson and the Texas A&#38;M University System, which the Company refers to, collectively, as the Licensors. Under this agreement, the Company was granted an exclusive, worldwide license to rights (including rights to U.S. and foreign patent and patent applications and related improvements and know-how) for the manufacture and commercialization of two classes of organic arsenicals (water- and lipid-based) for human and animal use. The class of water-based organic arsenicals includes darinaparsin. 

The Company issued options to purchase 50,222 shares outside of the Company&#146;s stock option plans following the successful completion of certain clinical milestones, of which 37,666 have vested. The remaining 12,556 shares will vest upon enrollment of the first patient in a multi-center pivotal clinical trial i.e. a human clinical trial intended to provide the substantial evidence of efficacy necessary to support the filing of an approvable New Drug Application, or NDA. In addition, the Licensors are entitled to receive certain milestone payments. The Company may be required to make additional payments upon achievement of certain other milestones in varying amounts which on a cumulative basis could total up to an additional $4.5 million. In addition, the Licensors are entitled to receive single digit percentage royalty payments on sales from a licensed product and will also be entitled to receive a portion of any fees that the Company may receive from a possible sublicense under certain circumstances. 

&#160;

Collaboration Agreement with Solasia Pharma K.K. 

On March 7, 2011, the Company entered into a License and Collaboration Agreement with Solasia Pharma K.K., or Solasia. Pursuant to the License and Collaboration Agreement, the Company granted Solasia an exclusive license to develop and commercialize darinaparsin in both IV and oral forms and related organic arsenic molecules, in all indications for human use in a pan- Asian/Pacific territory comprised of Japan, China, Hong Kong, Macau, Republic of Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines and Thailand. 

As consideration for the license, the Company received an upfront payment of $5.0 million to be used exclusively for further clinical development of darinaparsin outside of the pan-Asian/Pacific territory, and will be entitled to receive additional payments of up to $32.5 million in development-based milestones and up to $53.5 million in sales-based milestones. The Company will also be entitled to receive double digit royalty payments from Solasia based upon net sales of licensed products in the applicable territories, once commercialized, and a percentage of sublicense revenues generated by Solasia. Under the License and Collaboration Agreement, the Company provided Solasia with drug product to conduct clinical trials. These transfers were accounted for as a reduction of research and development costs and an increase in collaboration receivables. The agreement provides that Solasia will be responsible for the development and commercialization of darinaparsin in the pan-Asian/Pacific territory. 

On July 31, 2014, the Company entered into an amendment and restatement of the License and Collaboration Agreement granting Solasia an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize darinaparsin, and related organoarsenic molecules, in both intravenous and oral forms in all indications for human use. In exchange, the Company will be eligible to receive from Solasia development-and sales-based milestones, a royalty on net sales of darinaparsin, once commercialized, and a percentage of any sublicense revenues generated by Solasia. Solasia will be responsible for all costs related to the development, manufacturing and commercialization of darinaparsin. The Company&#146;s Licensors, as defined in the agreement, will receive a portion of all milestone and royalty payments made by Solasia to the Company in accordance with the terms of the Company&#146;s license agreement with the Licensors. 

The $5.0 million upfront payment received in March 2011 is being amortized over the period of the Company&#146;s research and development effort. The Company originally estimated this period to be 75 months. In accordance with the amended and restated License and Collaboration Agreement with Solasia, the Company is no longer obligated to continue their research and development efforts in connection with the upfront payment. However, there are certain deliverables that are included in the amended and restated License and Collaboration Agreement including transfer of intellectual property and prior research and development results, which were originally estimated by management to be completed by March 31, 2015 when the amended and restated License and Collaboration Agreement was signed in July 2014. Management subsequently reassessed the period of performance related to the remaining transitional services to be completed under the amended and restated License and Collaboration Agreement and determined that the services are now expected to be completed by March 31, 2016. Accordingly, the Company has recorded $1.1 million in revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2015. The remaining deferred revenue balance of $272 thousand at December 31, 2015 has been classified as current. 

License Agreement with Baxter Healthcare Corporation 

On November 3, 2006, the Company entered into a definitive Asset Purchase Agreement for indibulin and a License Agreement to proprietary nanosuspension technology with affiliates of Baxter Healthcare S.A. The purchase included the entire indibulin intellectual property portfolio as well as existing drug substance and capsule inventories. During 2014, we determined to no longer pursue clinical development of indibulin. During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the installment payments of $250 thousand were met and expensed. 

&#160;

CRO Services Agreement with Novella Clinical, Inc. 

On December 4, 2008, the Company entered into a Master Clinical Research Organization Services Agreement with Novella Clinical, Inc., or Novella, under which Novella provides clinical research organization, or CRO, services in support of the Company&#146;s clinical trials. The work order for the newest trial being conducted by Novella was signed on November 2, 2012. Novella was entitled to cumulative payments of up to $790 thousand under these arrangements, which is payable in varying amounts upon Novella achieving specified milestones. 

On August 18, 2014 and November 6, 2014, the Company signed two respective amendments of the Master Clinical Research Organization Services Agreement with Novella. The amendments reflect the removal of data management, statistical and clinical study report services, as well as a change in the timeline and scope of clinical trial support. During the year ended December 31, 2014, three clinical milestones were met and expensed totaling $236 thousand. The remaining milestone of $10 thousand was met and expensed during the quarter ended March 31, 2015. There are no remaining obligations under this agreement. 

Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights and Protection. 

Patents extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection offering by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends of the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. 

Pursuant to the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, some of our patents, under certain conditions, may be eligible for limited patent term extension for a period of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during drug development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, this extension period cannot be extended beyond 14 years from the drug&#146;s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the period of time elapsed between the effective date of an IND application or the issue date of the patent, whichever is later, and the submission date of an NDA, plus the period of time between the submission date of the NDA or the issue date of the patent, whichever is later, and FDA approval. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves applications for any patent term extension or restoration. We intend to seek the benefits of this statute, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such benefits. 

We also depend upon the skills, knowledge, and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, as well as those of our advisors, consultants, and other contractors, none of which is patentable. To help protect proprietary know-how, which is not patentable, and for inventions for which patents may be difficult to enforce, we currently rely, and in the future will continue to rely, on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our interests. To this end, we generally require employees, consultants, advisors and other contractors to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. 

Our patent position and proprietary rights are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Please read the &#147; Risk Factors &#148; section of this report for information about certain risks and uncertainties that may affect our patent position and proprietary rights. 

Additional information as of December 31, 2015 about material patents and other proprietary rights covering our product candidates is set forth below. 

Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex and DC-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex. 

The patent estate licensed to us by Intrexon covering Ad-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex and DC-RTS-IL-12 + veledimex compositions, methods of use, methods of manufacture, and formulations includes over one hundred issued U.S. patents and applications which are scheduled to expire starting in 2018 and include coverage through 

&#160;

at least 2031. This portfolio also includes issued and pending foreign patents in Europe, Canada, Japan, Australia and other countries. The term of one or more of the issued patents may be extended due to the regulatory approval process.

CAR+ Cells 

In January 2015, we in-licensed from M.D. Anderson a technology portfolio that includes intellectual property directed to certain CAR+ T cell technology. Under the terms of the agreement, we have an exclusive license to certain of the intellectual property, a co-exclusive license to certain of the intellectual property technology and a non-exclusive license to certain of the intellectual property technology. Our rights to the M.D. Anderson intellectual property flow to us via our agreement with Intrexon. 

Governmental Regulation 

The research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, promotion, advertising, distribution, import, export and marketing, among other things, of our products are extensively regulated by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, and biologics under the Public Health Service Act, or PSHA, as well as their respective implementing regulations. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve pending NDAs or Biologics License Applications, or BLAs, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, and/or criminal prosecution. Moreover, if our product candidates are approved by the FDA, government coverage and reimbursement policies will both directly and indirectly affect our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates, and such coverage and reimbursement policies will be affected by future healthcare reform measures. In addition, we may be subject to state and federal laws, including anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes as well as data privacy laws that restrict certain business practices in the biopharmaceutical industry. 

Product Approval Process . None of our product candidates may be marketed in the United States until it has received FDA approval. The steps required before a drug or biologic product may be marketed in the United States include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies, and formulation studies; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for each indication; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Submission to the FDA of NDA or BLA; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs and if applicable, current good tissue practices, or GTPs; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA or BLA. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, pharmacokinetics, toxicity, immunogenicity and formulation, as well as animal studies. The conduct of the preclinical tests and formulation of the products for testing must comply with federal regulations and requirements. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND application, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. An IND automatically takes effect 30 calendar days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA applies a clinical hold and raises safety concerns or questions about issues such as the design of the trials as outlined in the IND. In such a case, 

&#160;

the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding FDA concerns or questions before clinical trials may proceed. We cannot be certain that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing a clinical trial to be initiated. 

If a gene therapy trial is conducted at, or sponsored by, institutions receiving NIH funding for recombinant DNA research, prior to the submission of an IND to the FDA, a protocol and related documents must be submitted to, and the study registered with, the NIH Office of Biotechnology Activities, or the OBA, pursuant to the NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules, or the NIH Guidelines. Compliance with the NIH Guidelines is mandatory for investigators at institutions receiving NIH funds for research involving recombinant DNA. However, many companies and other institutions, not otherwise subject to the NIH Guidelines, voluntarily follow them. The NIH is responsible for convening the recombinant DNA advisory committee, or RAC, that discusses protocols that raise novel or particularly important scientific, safety or ethical considerations at one of its quarterly public meetings. The OBA will notify the FDA of the RAC&#146;s decision regarding the necessity for full public review of a gene therapy protocol. RAC proceedings and reports are posted to the OBA website and may be accessed by the public. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of an investigational drug or biologic to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators. Clinical trials are conducted according to protocols that detail the study objectives, the parameters to be used in monitoring participants&#146; safety, and the effectiveness criteria by which the investigational product will be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. 

Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. The study protocol and informed consent information for study subjects in a clinical trial must also be approved by an Institutional Review Board for each institution where the trial will be conducted. Study subjects must sign an informed consent form before participating in a clinical trial. Phase 1 usually involves the initial introduction of the investigational product into people to evaluate its short-term safety, dosage tolerance, metabolism, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacologic actions and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness. Phase 2 usually involves trials in a limited patient population in order to (1) evaluate dosage tolerance and appropriate dosage; (2) identify possible adverse effects and safety risks; and (3) evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug for specific indications. Phase 3 trials usually continue to evaluate clinical efficacy and further test for safety by using the product in its final form in an expanded patient population. There can be no assurance that Phase 1, Phase 2, or Phase 3 testing will be completed successfully within any specified period of time, if at all. Furthermore, the sponsoring company, an IRB or the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. 

The FDCA permits the FDA and the IND sponsor to agree in writing on the design and size of clinical studies intended to form the primary basis of a claim of effectiveness in an NDA or BLA. This process is known as Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, and can be a somewhat lengthy process. An agreement may not be changed by the sponsor or the FDA after the trial begins, except (1) with the written agreement of the sponsor and the FDA, or (2) if the director of the FDA reviewing division determines that &#147;a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety or effectiveness of the drug&#148; was identified after the testing began. 

Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical studies and of the clinical studies, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the product candidate, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. An NDA or BLA must be accompanied by a substantial user fee, unless a waiver applies. The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources. The FDA reviews the application and may deem it to be inadequate to support the registration, and companies cannot be sure that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA may also refer the application to the appropriate external advisory committee, typically a panel of clinicians, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of the advisory committee. 

&#160;

The goals of the NDA/BLA are to provide enough information to permit FDA to reach the following key decisions: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Is the product safe and effective in its proposed use(s), and do its benefits outweigh its risks? &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Is the product&#146;s proposed labeling (package insert) appropriate, and what should it contain? Are measures necessary to mitigate risks of use of the product (referred to as Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies, or REMS)? &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Are the methods used in manufacturing the product and the controls used to maintain its quality adequate to preserve identity, strength, quality, and purity? The FDA has various programs, including orphan drug, fast track, priority review, and accelerated approval, which are intended to expedite or simplify the process for developing and reviewing drugs, and/or provide for approval on the basis surrogate endpoints, or provide financial incentives and market exclusivity. Generally, drugs that may be eligible for one or more of these programs are those for serious or life-threatening conditions, those with the potential to address unmet medical needs, and those that provide meaningful benefit over existing treatments. A company cannot be certain that any of its investigational drugs will qualify for any of these programs, or that, if a drug does qualify, the review time will be reduced. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug or biological product intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug or biological product available in the United States for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product. Orphan designation must be requested before submitting an NDA or BLA. Orphan designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. If a product that has orphan designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for such drug or biological product for the disease or condition for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug or biological product for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan exclusivity. Competitors, however, may receive approval of different products for the indication for which the orphan product has exclusivity or obtain approval for the same product but for a different indication for which the orphan product has exclusivity. If a drug or biological product designated as an orphan product receives marketing approval for an indication broader than what is designated, it may not be entitled to orphan product exclusivity. 

Before approving an NDA or BLA, the FDA usually will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured and will not approve the product unless cGMP compliance is satisfactory. If the FDA evaluates the NDA or BLA and the manufacturing facilities and deems them to be acceptable, the FDA may issue an approval letter, or in many cases, a complete response letter. The complete response letter contains the conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval of the NDA or BLA. When and if those conditions have met with the FDA&#146;s satisfaction, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug or biologic for specific indications. As a condition of NDA/BLA approval, the FDA may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the drug&#146;s safety or efficacy, or impose other conditions. 

After approval, certain changes to the approved drug product, such as adding new indications, initiating certain manufacturing changes, or making certain additional labeling claims, are subject to further FDA review and approval. Before a company can market a drug product for any additional indication(s), it must obtain additional approval from the FDA. Obtaining approval for a new indication generally requires that additional clinical studies be conducted. A company cannot be sure that any additional approval for new indications for any product candidate will be approved on a timely basis, or at all. 

Post-approval Requirements . Often times, even after a drug has been approved by the FDA for sale, the FDA may require that certain post-approval requirements be satisfied, including the conduct of additional clinical 

&#160;

studies. If such post-approval conditions are not satisfied, the FDA may withdraw its approval of the product. In addition, holders of an approved NDA or BLA are required to: (1) report certain adverse reactions to the FDA; (2) comply with certain requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling for their products; and (3) continue to have quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP. The FDA periodically inspects the sponsor&#146;s records relating to safety reporting and/or manufacturing facilities; this latter effort includes assessment of cGMP compliance. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. We intend to use third-party manufacturers to produce our products in clinical and commercial quantities, and future FDA inspections may identify compliance issues at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. In addition, discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer, or holder of an approved NDA or BLA, including withdrawal of the product from the market. 

Patent Challenge Process Regarding ANDAs. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides incentives for generic pharmaceutical manufacturers to challenge patents on branded pharmaceutical products and/or their methods of use, as well as to develop products comprising non-infringing forms of the patented drugs. The Hatch-Waxman legislation places significant burdens on the Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, filer to ensure that such challenges are not frivolous, but also offers the opportunity for significant financial reward if the challenge is successful. 

If there is a patent listed for the branded drug in the FDA&#146;s Orange Book at the time of submission of the ANDA or at any time before the ANDA is approved and the generic company intends to market the generic equivalent prior to the expiration of that patent, the generic company includes a certification asserting that the patent is invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed, a so-called &#147;paragraph IV certification.&#148; 

After receiving notice from the FDA that its application is acceptable for review or immediately if the ANDA has been amended to include a paragraph IV certification after the application was submitted to the FDA, the company filing a generic application is required to send the patent holder and the holder of the NDA for the brand-name drug a notice explaining why it believes that the patents in question are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. Upon receipt of the notice from the generic applicant, the patent holder has 45 days during which to bring a patent infringement suit in federal district court against the generic applicant in order to obtain the 30 month automatic stay. 

If a suit is commenced by the patent holder during the 45-day period, the Hatch-Waxman Act provides for an automatic stay on the FDA&#146;s ability to grant final approval of the ANDA for the generic product. Patent holders may only obtain one 30-month stay with respect to patents that were listed at the time an ANDA was filed. The period during which the FDA may not approve the ANDA and the patent challenger therefore may not market the generic product is 30 months, or such other period as may be ordered by the court. The 30-month period may or may not, and often does not, coincide with the timing of the resolution of the lawsuit or the expiration of a patent, but if the patent challenge is successful or the challenged patent expires during the 30-month period, the FDA may approve the generic drug for marketing, assuming there are no other obstacles to approval such as periods of non-patent exclusivity given to the NDA holder. 

Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, any developer of a generic drug that is considered first to have filed its ANDA for review by the FDA, and whose filing includes a paragraph IV certification, may be eligible to receive a 180-day period of generic market exclusivity. This period of market exclusivity may provide the patent challenger with the opportunity to earn a return on the risks taken and its legal and development costs and to build its market share before other generic competitors can enter the market. If the ANDA of the first applicant accepted for filing is withdrawn, the 180-day exclusivity period is forfeited and unavailable to any other applicant. 

&#160;

Coverage and Reimbursement. Sales of our product candidates, if approved, will depend, in part, on the extent to which such products will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health care programs, commercial insurance and managed healthcare organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly limiting coverage and/or reducing reimbursements for medical products and services. A third-party payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Further, one payor&#146;s determination to provide coverage for a product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage for the product. In addition, the U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have continued implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic or biosimilar products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit our net revenue and results. 

Healthcare Laws and Regulations. We are currently or will in the future be subject to healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the states and foreign governments in which we will conduct our business once our product candidates are approved. The healthcare laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The federal Anti-Kickback Statute makes it illegal for any person or entity to knowingly and willfully, directly or indirectly, solicit, receive, offer, or pay any remuneration that is in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase, order, arrangement or lease of any good, facility, item or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The term &#147;remuneration&#148; has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Federal false claims and false statement laws, including the federal civil False Claims Act, prohibits, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to, or approval by, federal programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, claims for items or services, including drugs, that are false or fraudulent. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; HIPAA created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit among other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors or making any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, and their implementing regulations, imposes obligations on certain types of individuals and entities regarding the electronic exchange of information in common healthcare transactions, as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires certain manufacturers of products for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children&#146;s Health Insurance Program, with specific exceptions, to report annually to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Also, many states have similar laws and regulations, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may be broader in scope and may apply regardless of payor, in addition to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs. Additionally, we may be subject to state laws that require biopharmaceutical companies to comply with the federal government&#146;s and/or industry&#146;s voluntary compliance guidelines, state laws that require biopharmaceutical manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures, as well as state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including without limitation, administrative or civil penalties, imprisonment, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from participation in 

&#160;

government healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. 

Healthcare Reform. The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. By way of example, in March 2010, the ACA was signed into law, which intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. 

There have been judicial and Congressional challenges to ACA and there may be additional challenges and amendments to ACA in the future. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the ACA. Through the process created by the Budget Control Act of 2011, there are automatic reductions of Medicare payments to providers up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and, following passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to certain providers. Moreover, recently there has been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their commercial products. For example, in 2015 several U.S. Congressional inquiries were initiated regarding certain drug manufacturers&#146; pricing practices and legislation proposed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. We expect that ACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and lower reimbursement, and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. We cannot predict what healthcare reform initiatives may be adopted in the future. 

Employees 

As of February 10, 2016 we had 28 full-time employees, 17 of whom were engaged in research and development activities and 11 of whom were engaged in business development, finance, information systems, facilities, human resources or administrative support. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. 

Corporate Information 

We originally incorporated in Colorado in September 1998 (under the name Net Escapes, Inc.) and later changed our name to &#147;EasyWeb, Inc.&#148; in February 1999. We re-incorporated in Delaware on May 16, 2005 under the same name. On September 13, 2005, we completed a &#147;reverse&#148; acquisition of privately held ZIOPHARM, Inc., a Delaware corporation. To effect this transaction, we caused ZIO Acquisition Corp., our wholly-owned subsidiary, to merge with and into ZIOPHARM, Inc., with ZIOPHARM, Inc. surviving as our wholly owned subsidiary. In accordance with the terms of the merger, the outstanding common stock of ZIOPHARM, Inc. automatically converted into the right to receive an aggregate of approximately 97.3% of our outstanding common stock (after giving effect to the transaction). Following the merger, we caused ZIOPHARM, Inc. to merge with and into us and we changed our name to &#147;ZIOPHARM Oncology, Inc.&#148; Although EasyWeb, Inc. was the legal acquirer in the transaction, we accounted for the transaction as a reverse acquisition under generally accepted accounting principles. As a result, ZIOPHARM, Inc. became the registrant with the Commission and the historical financial statements of ZIOPHARM, Inc. became our historical financial statements. 

Our principal executive offices are located at One First Avenue, Parris Building 34, Navy Yard Plaza, Boston, Massachusetts 02129, and our telephone number is (617) 259-1970. 

&#160;

Available Information 

Our website address is www.ziopharm.com. Our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We file reports with the SEC, which we make available on our website free of charge. These reports include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, each of which is provided on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with or furnish them to the SEC. You can also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain additional information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, like us, that file electronically with the SEC, including us. 

&#160;

