ITEM 1. BUSINESS

BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

Trident Brands  Incorporated  (f/k/a Sandfield  Ventures Corp.) was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Nevada on  November  5,  2007.  The  Company  was
initially  formed to engage in the  acquisition,  exploration and development of
natural resource  properties,  but has since  transitioned and is now focused on
branded  consumer  products  and food  ingredients.  The Company is in the early
growth  stage and has  commenced  commercial  activities  following  a period of
organization and development of its business plan.

The Company  maintains  a  compelling  portfolio  of branded  consumer  products
including  nutritional  products and supplements under the Everlast(R) and Brain
Armor(R) brands,  and functional food ingredients  under the Oceans Omega brand.
These brands are focused on the fast growing supplements and nutritional product
and heart and brain  health  categories,  supported by an  established  contract
manufacturing,  supply chain and research and development infrastructure,  and a
solid and proactive  management  team, board of directors and advisors with many
years of experience in related categories.

CORPORATE LEGAL STRUCTURE AND RELATED MATTERS

Trident Brands Incorporated has three legal subsidiaries, as detailed below.

                                       5
<PAGE>
                          Trident Brands Incorporated
                         /              |             \
                        /               |              \
                       /                |               \
            100%                    100%                    85.5%
       Trident Brands         Sports Nutrition        Brain Armor Inc.
         Canada Ltd.            Products Inc.

Trident  Brands  Canada Ltd. is 100% owned by Trident  Brands and holds  various
banking  facilities,  Sports  Nutrition  Product  Inc.  is 100% owned by Trident
Brands  and holds the  license to market and sell  products  in the  nutritional
foods and supplemetns  categories  under the Everlast(R)  brand, and Brain Armor
Inc. is 85.5%  owned by Trident  Brands and holds the  trademark  related to the
Brain Armor(R) brand.

The Company's  administrative  office is located at 200 South  Executive  Drive,
Suite 101,  Brookfield,  Wisconsin,  53005 and its fiscal  year end is  November
30th.

The Company has authorized capital of 300,000,000 common shares with a par value
of $0.001 per share.  28,000,000 common shares were issued and outstanding as of
November 30, 2015 and 31,000,000 common shares were issued and outstanding as of
March 11, 2016.

HISTORY OF TRIDENT BRANDS

Trident Brands  Incorporated was incorporated in the State of Nevada on November
5,  2007  as  Sandfield   Ventures  Corp.  Its  primary  business  was  resource
exploration  in that state but after a period of time  management of the Company
decided to take a new direction  for the business and focus on consumer  goods -
primarily  branded nutrition  products and ingredients.  We are currently in the
product introduction and commercialization phase of our new business focus.

On June 12, 2013 the Board of Directors approved an agreement and plan of merger
with a wholly-owned subsidiary called Trident Brands Incorporated. At that point
we changed our name from Sandfield Ventures Corp. to Trident Brands Incorporated
and  Mark  Holcombe  assumed  the role of Chief  Executive  Officer,  President,
Secretary and Treasurer.

Following that, on July 9, 2013, our Board of Directors approved a resolution to
affect a 4 for 1 forward  stock  split.  Upon effect of the forward  split,  our
authorized  capital  increased from  75,000,000 to 300,000,000  shares of common
stock and  correspondingly,  our issued and  outstanding  shares of common stock
increased  from 7,000,000 to 28,000,000  shares of common stock,  all with a par
value of $0.001

                                       6
<PAGE>
On August 1, 2013, our directors  approved the adoption of our 2013 Stock Option
Plan which  permits us to issue up to  4,200,000  shares of our common  stock to
directors,  officers, employees and consultants of our company upon the exercise
of stock options granted under the 2013 Stock Option Plan.

On December 23, 2013,  we signed a 15 year  license  agreement  (including a ten
year  extension  option) with  Everlast(R)  World's Boxing  Headquarters  Corp.,
International  Brand Management & Licensing,  to market and sell products in the
nutritional  foods and supplements  category under the Everlast(R)  brand.  This
licensing agreement enables us to introduce a portfolio of nutritional  products
in categories such as supplements and functional foods using this brand mark.

Effective March 21, 2014, we appointed the following individuals as officers and
directors:

     *    Donald  MacPhee was appointed to our Board of Directors,  Chair of the
          Audit Committee and as a member of the Corporate Governance Committee.
     *    Scott Chapman was  appointed to our Board of  Directors,  Chair of the
          Corporate  Governance  Committee,  member of the Audit  Committee  and
          member of the Compensation Committee.
     *    Michael  Browne  was  appointed  as  our  President,  Chief  Financial
          Officer, Treasurer and Secretary.
     *    Peter Salvo was appointed as our Controller.

At the same time Mark Holcombe resigned as Chief Executive  Officer,  President,
Secretary  and  Treasurer,  and was appointed as Chair of the Board of Directors
and Chair of the Compensation  Committee.  Mr.  Holcombe's  resignation as Chief
Executive Officer, President,  Secretary and Treasurer was not the result of any
disagreement with our Company regarding its operations,  policies,  practices or
otherwise.

On May 5, 2014, we entered into a Product Development Agreement with Continental
Ingredients  Canada  Inc.  in support of our plan to  commercialize  nutritional
supplements  and  functional  food  and  beverage  products  for  sales in North
America. Under the Agreement, we engaged Continental Ingredients on an exclusive
basis to provide services for the development,  manufacturing  and supply of our
products for a period of five years  commencing on May 5, 2014 and ending on May
4, 2019, such term to renew  automatically for a further 12 months unless either
party delivers a written  termination  notice six months prior to the expiration
of the initial term or renewal  period.  This  agreement has  subsequently  been
revised  effective  December  9,  2015  and  details  are  provided  in the  Key
Developments in Fiscal 2015 section of this Form 10-K.

On May 5, 2014,  we appointed  Robert  Campbell and Karen  Arseneault as Special
Advisors.

Also on May 5, 2014,  we granted an  aggregate  of  2,875,000  stock  options to
directors,  officers,  and consultants of our company pursuant to our 2013 Stock
Plan. The stock options are exercisable for five years from the date of grant at
exercise prices of $0.75 per share for shares vesting 12 months from the date of
issuance, $1.00 per share for shares vesting 24 months from the date of issuance
and  $1.50  for  shares  vesting  36 months  from the date of  issuance.  Of the
2,875,000 stock options granted, we granted:

                                       7
<PAGE>
     1.   1,125,000  stock  options  to  our  then  President,  Chief  Financial
          Officer, Treasurer and Secretary, Michael Browne;
     2.   300,000 stock options to each of our directors,  Donald MacPhee, Scott
          Chapman, Mark Holcombe;
     3.   150,000 stock options to our controller, Peter Salvo; and
     4.   350,000 stock options to each of our special advisors, Robert Campbell
          and Karen Arseneault.

We  subsequently  transitioned  out of our shell status with a Super-8 filing at
the end of August, 2014.

KEY DEVELOPMENTS IN FISCAL 2015 AND FISCAL 2016 TO THE DATE OF THIS REPORT

On January 29,  2015,  we entered into a securities  purchase  agreement  with a
non-US  institutional  investor whereby we agreed to sell an aggregate principal
amount of $2,300,000 of senior secured convertible debentures,  convertible into
shares of the Company's common stock. We received the funds from the transaction
in two  traunches,  $1,800,000 on February 5, 2015 and $500,000 on May 14, 2015.
The convertible  debentures are convertible  into shares of the Company's common
stock at an initial  conversion  price of $.71 per share, for an aggregate of up
to 3,239,437  shares.  The debentures bear interest at 6% per annum,  payable in
cash each quarter.  We used the net proceeds from this  transaction  for working
capital and general corporate purposes.

On  February  27,  2015,  we engaged  Malone  Bailey LLP as our new  independent
registered public accounting firm. On March 6, 2015, we formally informed George
Stewart, CPA of their dismissal as the Company's  independent  registered public
accounting firm. The reports of George Stewart,  CPA on the Company's  financial
statements  as of and for the fiscal  years  ended  November  30,  2014 and 2013
contained no adverse  opinion or disclaimer of opinion and were not qualified or
modified  as to  uncertainty,  audit  scope or  accounting  principle  except to
indicate  that  there was  substantial  doubt  about the  Company's  ability  to
continue  as a going  concern.  There  had  been no  disagreements  with  George
Stewart,  CPA on any matter of accounting  principles  or  practices,  financial
statement disclosure or auditing scope or procedure,  which disagreements if not
resolved to the  satisfaction of George  Stewart,  CPA would have caused them to
make  reference  thereto  in  connection  with  their  report  on the  financial
statements for such years.  Our Board of Directors  participated in and approved
the decision to change independent registered public accounting firms.

On  March  1,  2015,  we  acquired,  through  a  licensing  agreement  with  DSM
Nutritional  Products LLC ("DNP"), the exclusive global rights to Brain Armor(R)
dietary supplements,  a plant-based DHA supplement designed specifically for the
needs of athletes.  At the same time,  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  Brain Armor
Incorporated  was  registered  to hold the  trademark  license and all costs and
revenue  associated with commercial  development of the Brain Armor(R) brand. As
per the  agreement,  DNP shall be the sole source of the  Company's  omega-3 oil
requirements  which will be DNP's  life's DHATM oil and will supply the soft gel
capsules  in  finished  form to us.  In order  to  maintain  exclusivity  to the
license,  we are  required  to meet  certain  targets  with  respect  to product
launches  and sales  volume.  Also under the terms of the  agreement we have the
opportunity  to  exercise  an option to  purchase  the  Brain  Armor(R)  dietary
supplement  brand.  The term of the Agreement and the license rights is for five
(5) years and shall be  subject to  successive  one (1) year  automatic  renewal
periods, assuming all performance milestones have been met.

                                       8
<PAGE>
On June 29,  2015,  we appointed  Dr.  Neilank K. Jha, MD, FRCS (C) as a Special
Advisor to its Brain  Armor(R)  subsidiary.  On September  29, 2015 the Board of
Directors  of  Brain  Armor  Inc.   allotted  100,000  shares  of  common  stock
representing  10% of the issued and  outstanding  capital of Brain Armor Inc. to
KONKUSSION  Inc., a company  controlled by Dr. Jha. Dr. Jha is a board certified
Neurosurgeon  FRCS(C) and a fellowship trained Spine Surgeon.  Dr. Jha is one of
North America's foremost concussion experts, with published articles, papers and
book chapters, as well as presenting various abstracts at scientific meetings in
Canada and the  United  States.  Dr.  Jha is the  Founder  and  Chairman  of the
KONKUSSION  program.  His vision is to revolutionize and redefine the management
of concussions.

On November 1, 2015,  we entered into a  consulting  agreement  with Dr.  Julian
Bailes wherein Dr. Bailes has agreed to provide consulting services as a Special
Advisor to our Company and/or our  subsidiary,  Brain Armor Inc. for a period of
12  months.  Pursuant  to the  consulting  agreement,  we agreed to issue to Dr.
Bailes 5% of the issued and  outstanding  shares of Brain  Armor Inc.  effective
November  30, 2015.  As a result,  our company now holds 85.5% of the issued and
outstanding  shares of Brain Armor Inc. Dr.  Bailes is a  nationally  recognized
leader in the field of neurosurgery and conducts research on the impact of brain
injury on neurological function. Dr. Bailes is the Chairman of the Department of
Neurosurgery at North Shore University  Health System,  Co-Director of the North
Shore  Neurological  Institute,  and a Clinical Professor of Neurosurgery at the
University of Chicago  Pritzker School of Medicine.  The Company is working with
both Dr. Jha and Dr.  Bailes to research  and develop  line  extensions  and new
products that support active lifestyles and sports participation under the Brain
Armor(R) brand.

On November 30, 2015,  Michael Browne signed a service contract with the company
to serve as Brand Director of Trident Brands Inc. At that time his stock options
were amended from a total of 1,125,000 which were issued May 5, 2014 to 625,000.
As a result,  total stock  options  outstanding  as of November 30, 2015 are now
2,375,000.

On  December  8, 2015,  a Letter of Intent  ("LOI")  was signed  confirming  the
intention of Trident  Brands Inc.  and  Continental  Ingredients  Canada Inc. to
enter into negotiations regarding the acquisition by Trident of up to 43% of the
voting  securities of  Continental  with an option to acquire the balance of all
remaining issued and outstanding voting securities at the time of the closing of
the  transaction.  Approval of any subsequent  agreement,  if any, is subject to
approval by a Special Committee of the Board by April 15, 2016.

On December 9, 2015,  we entered into a revised  Product  Development  Agreement
("PDA") with  Continental  Ingredients  Canada Inc. ("CIC") pursuant to which we
engaged  CIC on an  exclusive  basis to provide  services  for the  development,
manufacturing, and supply of our Everlast Nutrition(R) and Brain Armor(TM) brand
nutritional  supplements,  and  functional  food and  beverage  products.  CIC's
services will include research and  development,  design,  ingredient  sourcing,
production,  distribution,  and inventory management of our planned portfolio of
branded  products.  In addition,  CIC will manage all third party  suppliers and
manufacturers,  and provide us with  office  space at their  Oakville,  Ontario,
facility.  The term of the PDA is for 5 years, expiring on December 9, 2020. The
term will renew  automatically for successive 12 month periods unless terminated

                                       9
<PAGE>
by either party with 6 months' notice.  This PDA replaced our previous agreement
with CIC dated May 5, 2014  regarding  our Everlast  Nutrition(R)  products.  On
March 1st 2016, the PDA was further  amended to clarify that while neither party
to the  agreement  can assign its  interests  or  obligations  without the prior
written  consent  of the other  party,  a change of  control in CIC shall not be
considered an assignment of CIC's rights and obligations.

Effective December 15, 2015, Michael Browne resigned as President of our Company
to focus on his Brand Director, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer
responsibilities.   Mr.   Browne's   resignation  was  not  the  result  of  any
disagreement with our Company regarding our operations,  policies,  practices or
otherwise.

Also, effective December 15, 2015, Donald MacPhee, one of our board members, was
appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer of our Company.

On January 28, 2016, we issued  3,000,000  common  shares  pursuant to a Deed of
Assignment dated effective January 20, 2015 among our Company, Oceans Omega LLC,
and the assignor 2298107 Ontario Inc.,  pursuant to which the assignor  assigned
to our Company the assignor's non-exclusive rights to purchase, market, sell and
distribute certain Omega 3 nutritional emulsions produced by Oceans Omega LLC to
the food and beverage industries and exclusive rights to purchase,  market, sell
and distribute to the global meat industry.

On January 29, 2016, we entered into a Securities  Purchase  Agreement  with one
investor  whereby we  received  proceeds  of  $250,000  in return for a $250,000
secured  promissory note due 12 months from the issuance date,  bearing interest
at the rate of 10% per annum,  and 125,000 warrants to purchase common shares of
our  Company at an  exercise  price of $1.35 per share for three  years from the
date of issue.

On February 29, 2016, we entered into a Securities  Purchase  Agreement with CIC
whereby we  received  proceeds  of  $200,000  in return  for a $200,000  secured
promissory  note due 12 months from the issuance date,  bearing  interest at the
rate of 10% per annum,  and 100,000  warrants to purchase  common  shares of our
Company at an exercise price of $1.35 per share for three years from the date of
issue.

BUSINESS OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES

Our  business  brings  together  many  years of  seasoned  expertise  in branded
consumer products,  supply chain, product development and corporate finance. Our
team has experience in developing and commercializing consumer products, in both
global  companies  and  specialty  markets.   Our  purpose  is  to  apply  these
capabilities in starting new product lines with specific competitive  advantage.
Our product development is focused on:

     *    Extending   established  brands  with  existing  equity  that  can  be
          leveraged;
     *    Delivering  consumer  benefit with unique  technology or  intellectual
          properties; and
     *    Targeting dynamic growth segments.

                                       10
<PAGE>
Coupled with strategic capital  investment,  our focus is on investments  within
the fast growing nutritional product and functional food  segments/sectors.  Our
goal is to provide our shareholders  with outstanding ROI through a portfolio of
branded platforms via an asset light business model when and where appropriate.

As  part  of our  long-term  strategy  we are  targeting  the  following  growth
opportunities:

     *    Brand licenses in fast growing categories;
     *    Consumer  goods  with  focus  on  supplements,   functional   foods  &
          beverages;
     *    Life science  technology that has  applications  in consumer  products
          with a focus on nutritional, brain and heart health products; and
     *    Intellectual property and/or licenses in recognized brand platforms.

In addition to  investments  in brands and  technology,  we will seek to acquire
positions in businesses to support our strategy through the use of common and/or
preferred   equity,   senior  secured,   unsecured,   and  convertible  debt  in
organizations  who  meet  our  investment  goals.  Through  our  management  and
directors  vast  expertise in both the consumer  branded  segment and  strategic
investment  experience,  we seek to provide our  shareholders  a sound return on
their investment.

The Company's strategic objective is to:

     *    Build and grow strategic brands organically;
     *    Make strategic investments in high growth companies;
     *    Develop   and   then   merge   brands/business   lines   into   larger
          multi-national Companies; and
     *    Mitigate risk by creating a diverse portfolio of  brands/operations in
          the growth sectors listed above.

BRANDS

EVERLAST(R)

We have a long term license, with a 10 year extension option, to market and sell
products in the nutritional foods and supplements category under the Everlast(R)
brand. The US Dietary  Supplement Segment continues to experience dynamic growth
driven by favorable  demographic  trends,  increased  media  coverage of dietary
issues and  greater  emphasis on  preventive  health/wellness  practices  in the
healthcare  industry,  and the  Everlast(R)  line of  products  are  designed to
capitalize on this dynamic.

BRAIN ARMOR(R)

In March 2015, we acquired,  through a licensing agreement, the exclusive global
rights to Brain Armor(R), a plant-based DHA supplement designed specifically for
the needs of  athletes.  Brain  Armor(R)  helps  optimize  cognitive  and visual
performance by supplying a meaningful  amount of DHA, an important Omega-3 shown
to support  brain,  eye and heart  health.  Brain  Armor(R) is powered by Life's
DHA(R), a patented plant source of DHA grown in a FDA inspected facility.

                                       11
<PAGE>
OCEANS OMEGA

In January 2016 we obtained the rights to purchase,  market, sell and distribute
certain  patented  Omega 3 products  produced by Oceans  Omega LLC. The products
have  application  as a  functional  food  ingredient  and include  breakthrough
technology for omega 3 fortification  of food and beverages.  Prior to acquiring
these rights we acted as a distributor for the then rights owner.

PRODUCT SUPPLY

We procure our products utilizing a series of ingredient suppliers and strategic
contract  manufacturers.  We also have a strategic  agreement  with  Continental
Ingredients  Canada ("CIC") whereby they provide  services for the  development,
manufacturing, and supply of our Everlast Nutrition(R) and Brain Armor(TM) brand
nutritional  supplements,  and  functional  food and  beverage  products.  CIC's
services  include  research  and  development,   design,   ingredient  sourcing,
production,  distribution,  and inventory management of our planned portfolio of
branded  products.  In  addition,  CIC  manages all third  party  suppliers  and
manufacturers,  and  provides us with office space at their  Oakville,  Ontario,
facility.

COMPETITION

We compete in the highly competitive branded nutritional products and functional
foods market segments. These markets are highly competitive with many companies,
large and small,  competing for market share. The nutritional products market is
one of the fastest  growing  markets in the world  producing close to 32 billion
dollars in revenue  in 2012,  and is  projected  to double,  producing  revenues
exceeding  60 billion  dollars by 2021  according  to the  Nutritional  Business
Journal. With the combination of high quality,  scientifically designed and cost
competitive  products,  and the equity in our brands, we believe we will be able
to gain market share in rapidly growing markets.

COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Our  operations,  supply  chain and  products  are  subject  to a wide  range of
governmental  regulations  and  policies  in various  regions  where we operate,
including  the U.S.  and  Canada.  These  laws,  regulations  and  policies  are
implemented,  as applicable  in each  jurisdiction,  on the  national,  federal,
state,  provincial and local levels. We believe we have processes and systems in
place throughout our supply chain to meet the requirements of these regulations.

PATENTS,  TRADEMARKS,  FRANCHISES,  CONCESSIONS,  ROYALTY  AGREEMENTS,  OR LABOR
CONTRACTS

We currently do not directly own any material patents,  trademarks,  copyrights,
franchises  or  concessions  as  these  are  currently  owned  by our  licensing
partners.  We will  assess  the  need for any  copyright,  trademark  or  patent
applications on an ongoing basis as our business develops.

HUMAN RESOURCES, CONTRACT SERVICE PROVIDERS, EMPLOYEES

We operate our business via resources that provide  services to the Company on a
contractual  basis. We feel this is most prudent as we can cost effectively meet
our needs and leverage capabilities of talented individuals without employing on
a full time basis.  As the business grows we expect to add a number of full-time

                                       12
<PAGE>
employees. We presently do not have pension, health, annuity,  insurance, profit
sharing  or  similar  benefit  plans;  however,  we may adopt  such plans in the
future.  Except for our stock  option  plan,  there are  presently  no  personal
benefits available to our officers and directors.

REPORTS TO SECURITIES HOLDERS

We provide an annual report that includes audited  financial  information to our
shareholders.  We will make our financial  information  equally available to any
interested  parties or investors through compliance with the disclosure rules of
Regulation S-K for a small business issuer under the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934. We are subject to disclosure  filing  requirements,  including filing Form
10K annually and Form 10Q quarterly. In addition, we will file Form 8K and other
proxy and information statements from time to time as required. We do not intend
to  voluntarily  file the above reports in the event that our obligation to file
such reports is suspended  under the Exchange  Act. The public may read and copy
any materials that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, ("SEC"),
at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. The
public may obtain  information on the operation of the Public  Reference Room by
calling  the  SEC  at  1-800-SEC-0330.   The  SEC  maintains  an  Internet  site
(http://www.sec.gov)  that contains reports,  proxy and information  statements,
and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

