 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Tidewater Inc., a Delaware corporation that is a listed company on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "TDW", provides offshore service vessels and marine support services to the global offshore energy industry through the operation of a diversified fleet of marine service vessels. The company was incorporated in 1956 and conducts its operations through wholly-owned United States (U.S.) and international subsidiaries, as well as through joint ventures in which Tidewater has majority and sometimes non-controlling interests (generally where required to satisfy local ownership or local content requirements). Unless otherwise required by the context, the term "company" as used herein refers to Tidewater Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

About Tidewater 

The company’s vessels and associated vessel services provide support of all phases of offshore exploration, field development and production. These services include towing of, and anchor handling for, mobile offshore drilling units; transporting supplies and personnel necessary to sustain drilling, workover and production activities; offshore construction, remotely operated vehicle (ROV) operations, and seismic and subsea support; and a variety of specialized services such as pipe and cable laying. 

The company has one of the broadest geographic operating footprints in the offshore energy industry with operations in most of the world’s significant offshore crude oil and natural gas exploration and production offshore regions. Our global operating footprint allows us to react quickly to changing local market conditions and to respond to the changing requirements of the many customers with which we believe we have strong relationships. The company is also one of the most experienced international operators in the offshore energy industry with over 50 years of international experience. 

The company’s offshore support vessel fleet includes vessels that are operated under joint ventures, as well as vessels that have been stacked or withdrawn from service. At March 31, 2016, the company owned or chartered (under sale-leaseback agreements) 269 vessels (excluding nine joint venture vessels, but including 77 stacked vessels) and eight ROVs available to serve the global energy industry. Please refer to Note (1) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our stacked vessels. 

Our revenues, net earnings and cash flows from operations are largely dependent upon the activity level of our offshore support vessel fleet. As is the case with other energy service companies, our business activity is largely dependent on the level of crude oil and natural gas and exploration, field development and production activity by our customers. Our customers’ business activity, in turn, is dependent on crude oil and natural gas prices, which fluctuate depending on expected future levels of supply and demand for crude oil and natural gas, and on estimates of the cost to find, develop and produce reserves. 

Offices and Facilities 

The company’s worldwide headquarters and principal executive offices are located at 601 Poydras Street, Suite 1500, New Orleans, Louisiana 70130, and its telephone number is (504) 568-1010. The company’s U.S. marine operations are based in Amelia, Louisiana; and Houston, Texas. We conduct our international operations through facilities and offices located in over 30 countries. Our principal international offices and/or warehouse facilities, most of which are leased, are located in Rio de Janeiro and Macae, Brazil; Ciudad Del Carmen, Mexico; Port of Spain, Trinidad; Aberdeen, Scotland; Amsterdam, Holland; Cairo, Egypt; Luanda and Cabinda, Angola; Lagos and Onne Port, Nigeria; Douala, Cameroon; Singapore; Perth, Australia; Shenzhen, China; Al Khobar, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia; Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and Oslo and Tromso, Norway. The company’s operations generally do not require highly specialized facilities, and suitable facilities are generally available on a lease basis as required. 

Business Segments 

We manage and measure our business performance in four distinct operating segments that we have established and that are based on our geographical organization: Americas, Asia/Pacific, Middle East/North Africa, and Sub-Saharan Africa/Europe. These segments are consistent with how the company’s chief executive officer, its chief operating decision maker, reviews operating results for the purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance. Our Americas segment includes the activities of our North American operations, which include operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico (GOM) and U.S. and Canadian coastal waters of the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, as well as operations offshore Mexico, 

Trinidad and Brazil. The Asia/Pacific segment includes our Australian and Southeast Asian and Western Pacific operations. Our Middle East/North Africa segment includes our operations in the Mediterranean and Red Seas, the Black Sea, the Arabian Gulf and offshore India. Lastly, our Sub-Saharan Africa/Europe segment includes operations conducted along the East and West Coasts of Africa as well as operations in and around the Caspian Sea, the North Sea and certain other arctic/cold water markets. 

Our principal customers in each of these business segments are large, international oil and natural gas exploration, field development and production companies (IOCs); select independent exploration and production (E&amp;P) companies; foreign government-owned or government-controlled organizations and other companies that explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas (NOCs); drilling contractors; and other companies that provide various services to the offshore energy industry, including but not limited to, offshore construction companies, diving companies and well stimulation companies. 

The company’s vessels are dispersed throughout the major offshore crude oil and natural gas exploration, field development and production areas of the world. Although the company considers, among other things, mobilization costs and the availability of suitable vessels in its fleet deployment decisions, and cabotage rules in certain countries occasionally restrict the ability of the company to move vessels between markets, the company’s diverse, mobile asset base and the wide geographic distribution of its vessels generally enable the company to respond relatively quickly to changing market conditions and customer requirements. 

Revenues in each of our segments are derived primarily from vessel time charter or similar contracts that are generally three months to four years in duration as determined by customer requirements, and, to a lesser extent, from vessel time charter contracts on a "spot" basis, which is a short-term (one day to three months) agreement to provide offshore marine services to a customer for a specific short-term job. The base rate of hire for a term contract is generally a fixed rate, though some charter arrangements allow the company to recover specific additional costs. 

In each of our business segments, and depending on vessel capabilities and availability, our vessels operate in the shallow, intermediate and deepwater offshore markets of the respective regions. In recent years, the deepwater offshore market has been a growing sector in the offshore crude oil and natural gas markets due to technological developments that have made deepwater exploration and development feasible and, if the commodity pricing environment improves, deepwater exploration and development could be a source of potential long-term growth for the company. Deepwater oil and gas development typically involves significant capital investment and multi-year development plans. Such projects are generally underwritten by the participating exploration, field development and production companies using relatively conservative crude oil and natural gas pricing assumptions. Although these projects are generally less susceptible to short-term fluctuations in the price of crude oil and natural gas, deepwater exploration and development projects can be costly relative to other onshore and offshore exploration and development. As a result, the recent decrease in crude oil prices has caused, and may continue to cause, many E&amp;P companies to reevaluate their future capital expenditures in regards to deepwater projects. 

As of March 31, 2016, there were approximately 70 deepwater offshore rigs under construction, however, there is uncertainty as to how many of those rigs, most of which are expected to enter service within the next two years, will increase the offshore working rig fleet (which was approximately 500 rigs at March 31, 2016, or down approximately 155 rigs over the past 12 months) and how many of those rigs will replace older, less productive drilling units or be unable to secure work at all. The dayrates and the overall utilization of the worldwide deepwater offshore supply vessel fleet, which is also expected to increase in size, will, at least in part, depend upon whether there is an overall net growth in the number of working deepwater rigs.

Please refer to Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a greater discussion of the company’s segments, including the macroeconomic environment in which we operate. In addition, please refer to Note (15) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for segment, geographical data and major customer information. 

Geographic Areas of Operation 

The company’s fleet is deployed in the major global offshore oil and gas areas of the world. The principal areas of the company’s operations include the U.S. GOM, the Arabian Gulf, the Mediterranean Sea and areas offshore Australia, Brazil, India, Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, the United Kingdom, Thailand, Trinidad, and West and East Africa. 

Revenues and operating profit derived from our operations along with total marine assets for our segments for the fiscal years ended March 31 are summarized below: 

(In thousands)

2015

Revenues:

Vessel revenues:

Americas

$

342,995

505,699

410,731

Asia/Pacific

89,045

150,820

154,618

Middle East/North Africa

168,471

205,787

186,524

Sub-Saharan Africa/Europe

354,889

606,052

666,588

Other operating revenues

23,662

27,159

16,642

$

979,062

1,495,517

1,435,103

Vessel operating profit:

Americas

$

52,966

122,988

90,936

Asia/Pacific

(1,687

)

11,541

29,044

Middle East/North Africa

27,349

37,258

42,736

Sub-Saharan Africa/Europe

(4,490

)

122,169

136,092

74,138

293,956

298,808

Other operating loss

(4,564

)

(8,022

)

(1,930

)

69,574

285,934

296,878

Corporate general and administrative expenses

(34,078

)

(40,621

)

(47,703

)

Corporate depreciation

(6,160

)

(4,014

)

(3,073

)

Corporate expenses

(40,238

)

(44,635

)

(50,776

)

Gain on asset dispositions, net

26,037

23,796

21,063

Asset impairments

(117,311

)

(14,525

)

(9,341

)

Goodwill impairment

—

(283,699

)

(56,283

)

Restructuring charge

(7,586

)

(4,052

)

—

Operating income (loss)

$

(69,524

)

(37,181

)

201,541

Total marine assets:

Americas

$

1,101,699

1,016,133

1,017,736

Asia/Pacific

514,948

506,265

421,379

Middle East/North Africa

582,281

666,983

613,303

Sub-Saharan Africa/Europe

1,822,682

2,064,010

2,383,507

Other

42,191

49,554

31,545

Total marine assets

$

4,063,801

4,302,945

4,467,470

Please refer to Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note (15) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further disclosure of segment revenues, operating profits, and total assets by geographical areas in which the company operates. 

Our Global Vessel Fleet and Vessel Construction, Acquisition and Replacement Program

Over the last 15 years, the company has maintained a vessel construction, acquisition and replacement program, with the intent of being able to operate in nearly all major oil and gas producing regions of the world by replacing older vessels in the company’s fleet with larger, more technologically sophisticated vessels. During that period, the company purchased and/or constructed 287 vessels at a total cost of approximately $4.9 billion (including 39 vessels at a cost of $309.8 million which were subsequently sold in transactions other than sale/lease transactions). Although the company is near the completion of its vessel construction, acquisition and replacement program, at March 31, 2016 the company had an additional 6 vessels under construction for a total cost of approximately $251.4 million. To date, the company has generally funded its vessel programs from its operating cash flows, together with funds provided by four private debt placements of senior unsecured notes and borrowings under bank credit facilities, proceeds from the disposition of (generally older) vessels, and various vessel sale-leaseback arrangements. 

The company operates the largest number of new offshore support vessels among its competitors in the industry. The company will continue to carefully consider whether future proposed investments and transactions have the appropriate risk/return-on-investment profile. 

The average age of the company’s 269 owned or chartered vessels (excluding joint-venture vessels) at March 31, 2016 is approximately 9.8 years. The average age of 248 newer vessels in the fleet (defined as those that have been acquired or constructed since calendar year 2000 as part of the company’s new build and acquisition program as discussed below) is approximately 8.2 years. The remaining 21 vessels have an average age of 28.6 years. Of the company’s 269 vessels, 104 are deepwater platform supply vessels (PSVs) or deepwater anchor handling towing supply (AHTS) vessels, and 117 vessels are non-deepwater towing-supply vessels, which include both smaller PSVs and smaller AHTS vessels that primarily serve the jackup drilling market. Included within our "other" vessel class are 48 vessels which are primarily crew boats and offshore tugs. 

At March 31, 2016, the company had commitments to build six vessels at a number of different shipyards around the world at a total cost, including contract costs and other incidental costs, of approximately $251.4 million. At March 31, 2016, the company had invested approximately $183.9 million in progress payments towards the construction of the six vessels, and the remaining expenditures necessary to complete construction was estimated at $67.5 million. The six vessels under construction at March 31, 2016 are deepwater PSVs ranging between 4,700 and 6,100 deadweight tons of cargo carrying capacity. Scheduled delivery for these newbuild vessels began in April 2016, with delivery of the final vessel expected in May 2017. 

The company also disposed of 713 vessels during the fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2016 period. Most of the vessels were sold at prices that exceeded such vessels’ carrying values at the time of disposition by the company. In aggregate, proceeds from, and pre-tax gains on, vessel dispositions during this period approximated $795 million and $330 million, respectively. 

Further discussions of our vessel construction, acquisition and replacement program, including the various settlement agreements with certain international shipyards related to the construction of vessels and the our capital commitments, scheduled delivery dates and recent vessel sales are disclosed in the "Vessel Count, Dispositions, Acquisitions and Construction Programs" section of Item 7 and Note (12) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The "Vessel Count, Dispositions, Acquisitions and Construction Programs" section of Item 7 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains a table comparing the actual March 31, 2016 vessel count and the average number of vessels by class and geographic distribution during the three years ended March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. 

Our Vessel Classifications 

Our vessels routinely move from one geographic region and reporting segment to another, and from one operating area to another operating area within the geographic regions and reporting segments. We disclose our vessel statistical information, including revenue, utilization and average day rates, by vessel class. Listed below are our three major vessel classes along with a description of the type of vessels categorized in each vessel class and the services the respective vessels typically perform. Tables comparing the average size of the company’s marine fleet by class and geographic distribution for the last three fiscal years are included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Deepwater Vessels 

Deepwater vessels, in the aggregate, are currently the company’s largest contributor to consolidated vessel revenue and vessel operating margin. Included in this vessel class are large PSVs (typically greater than 230-feet and/or with greater than 2,800 tons in dead weight cargo carrying capacity) and large, higher-horsepower AHTS vessels (generally greater than 10,000 horsepower). These vessels are generally chartered to customers for use in transporting supplies and equipment from shore bases to deepwater and intermediate water depth offshore drilling rigs and production platforms and for otherwise supporting intermediate and deepwater drilling, production, construction and maintenance operations. Deepwater PSVs generally have large cargo carrying capacities, both below deck (liquid mud tanks and dry bulk tanks) and above deck. Deepwater AHTS vessels are equipped to tow drilling rigs and other marine equipment, as well as to set anchors for the positioning and mooring of drilling rigs that generally do not have dynamic positioning capabilities. Many of our deepwater PSVs and AHTS vessels are outfitted with dynamic positioning capabilities, which allow the vessel to maintain an absolute or relative position when mooring to an offshore installation, rig or another vessel is deemed unsafe, impractical or undesirable. Many of our deepwater vessels also have oil recovery, firefighting, standby rescue and/or other 

specialized equipment. Our customers have high standards in regards to safety and other operational competencies and capabilities, in part to meet the more stringent regulatory standards, especially in the wake of the 2010 Deepwater Horizon incident. 

Our deepwater class of vessel also includes specialty vessels that can support offshore well stimulation, construction work, subsea services and/or serve as remote accommodation facilities. These vessels are generally available for routine supply and towing services, but these vessels are also outfitted, and primarily intended, for specialty services. For example, these vessels can be equipped with a variety of lifting and deployment systems, including large capacity cranes, winches or reel systems. Included in the specialty vessel category is the company’s one multi-purpose platform supply vessel (MPSV). Our MPSV is approximately 311 feet in length, has a 100-ton active heave compensating crane, a moonpool and a helideck and is designed for subsea service and light construction support activities. This vessel is significantly larger in size, more versatile, and more specialized than the PSVs discussed above. The MPSV typically commands a higher day rate because the vessel has more capabilities, and because the vessel has a higher construction cost and higher operating costs. 

Towing-Supply Vessels 

This is currently the company’s largest fleet class by number of vessels. Included in this class are non-deepwater AHTS vessels with horsepower below 10,000 BHP, and non-deepwater PSVs that are generally less than 230 feet. The vessels in this class perform the same respective functions and services as deepwater AHTS vessels and deepwater PSVs except towing-supply vessels are generally chartered to customers for use in intermediate and shallow waters. 

Other Vessels 

The company’s "Other" vessels include crew boats, utility vessels and offshore tugs. Crew boats and utility vessels are chartered to customers for use in transporting personnel and supplies from shore bases to offshore drilling rigs, platforms and other installations. These vessels are also often equipped for oil field security missions in markets where piracy, kidnapping or other potential violence presents a concern. Offshore tugs are used to tow floating drilling rigs and barges; to assist in the docking of tankers; and to assist pipe laying, cable laying and construction barges. 

Revenue Contribution by Major Classes of Vessels 

Revenues from vessel operations were derived from the following classes of vessels in the following percentages: 

Year Ended March 31,

2015

Deepwater

55.0

%

58.4

%

55.2

%

Towing-supply

38.0

%

34.5

%

37.1

%

Other

7.0

%

7.1

%

7.7

%

Subsea Services 

Historically, the company’s subsea services were composed primarily of seismic and subsea vessel support. During fiscal 2014 the company expanded its subsea services capabilities by hiring a dedicated group of employees with substantial ROV and subsea expertise and by purchasing six work-class ROVs. Two additional higher specification work-class ROVs were added to the company’s fleet in fiscal 2015. Each ROV is capable of being deployed and redeployed worldwide on a variety of vessels and platforms and we began ROV deployment and operations in fiscal 2015. Our expanded subsea services capabilities include services and engineering solutions in all phases of the life of a subsea well, including exploration, construction and installation, and maintenance, repair and inspection. Our equipment and subsea professionals can support subsea operations in water depths of up to 13,000 feet. In connection with the purchase of ROVs, the company has developed a proprietary operations management system customized for the operation of ROVs. Although the offshore exploration and production market is currently depressed, we may continue expanding our subsea services capabilities to meet customer demand. While we are generally curtailing additional investment in subsea services and other growth initiatives given reduced offshore activity levels, further expansion of our subsea services business, if undertaken, may include organic growth through commissioning the construction of additional ROVs or acquisitions of recently built ROVs and/or other ROV owners and operators. 

Customers and Contracting 

The company’s operations are dependent upon the levels of activity in offshore crude oil and natural gas exploration, field development and production throughout the world, which is affected by trends in global crude oil and natural gas pricing, including expectations of future commodity pricing, which is ultimately influenced by the supply and demand relationship for these natural resources. The activity levels of our customers are also influenced by the cost of exploring for and producing crude oil and natural gas, which can be affected by environmental regulations, technological advances that affect energy production and consumption, significant weather conditions, the ability of our customers to raise capital, and local and international economic and political environments, including government mandated moratoriums. A discussion of current market conditions and trends appears under "Macroeconomic Environment and Outlook" in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The company’s principal customers are IOCs; select independent E&amp;P companies; NOCs; drilling contractors; and other companies that provide various services to the offshore energy industry, including but not limited to, offshore construction companies, diving companies and well stimulation companies. 

Our primary source of revenue is derived from time charter contracts on our vessels on a rate per day of service basis; therefore, vessel revenues are recognized on a daily basis throughout the contract period. As noted above, these time charter contracts are generally either on a term or "spot" basis. There are no material differences in the cost structure of the company’s contracts based on whether the contracts are spot or term because the operating costs for an active vessel are generally the same without regard to the length of a contract. 

The following table discloses our customers that accounted for 10% or more of total revenues during any of our last three fiscal years: 

2015

Chevron Corporation

14.6

%

12.7

%

18.1

%

Petroleo Brasileiro SA

11.0

%

11.8

%

8.6

%

BP plc

7.1

%

10.1

%

8.9

%

While it is normal for our customer base to change over time as our vessel time charter contracts turn over, the unexpected loss of either or both of these two significant customers could, at least in the short term, have a material adverse effect on the company’s vessel utilization and its results of operations. Our five largest customers in aggregate accounted for approximately 47% of our fiscal 2016 total revenues, while the ten largest customers in aggregate accounted for approximately 69% of the company’s fiscal 2016 total revenues. 

Competition 

The principal competitive factors for the offshore vessel service industry are the suitability and availability of vessels and related equipment, price and quality of service. In addition, the ability to demonstrate a strong safety record and attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel are also important competitive factors. The company has numerous competitors in all areas in which it operates around the world, and the business environment in all of these markets is highly competitive. 

The company’s diverse, mobile asset base and the wide geographic distribution of its assets generally enable the company to respond relatively quickly to changes in market conditions and to provide a broad range of vessel services to its customers around the world. We believe the company is competitively well-positioned because of the size, diversity and geographic distribution of our vessel fleet. Economies of scale and experience level in the many areas of the world in which we operate are also considered competitive advantages. 

Increases in worldwide vessel capacity generally have the effect of lowering charter rates, particularly when there are lower levels of exploration, field development and production activity as has been the case since late calendar 2014 when oil prices began to trend lower. 

According to IHS-Petrodata, the global offshore support vessel market at the end of March 2016 had approximately 435 new-build offshore support vessels (deepwater PSVs, deepwater AHTS vessels and towing-supply vessels only) either under construction (355 vessels), on order or planned as of March 2016. These vessels are scheduled to be delivered into the worldwide offshore vessel market primarily over the next 18-24 months. The current worldwide fleet of these classes of vessels is estimated at approximately 3,440 vessels, of which we estimate that a significant portion are stacked or are not 

being actively marketed by the vessels’ owners. The worldwide offshore marine vessel industry, however, also has a large number of aged vessels, including approximately 640 vessels, or 19%, of the worldwide offshore fleet, that are at least 25 years old and nearing or exceeding original expectations of their estimated economic lives. These older vessels, of which we estimate the majority are already stacked or not actively marketed by the vessels’ owners, could potentially be removed from the market in the near future if the cost of extending the vessels’ lives is not economical, especially in light of recent market conditions. 

Excluding the 640 vessels that are at least 25 years old from the overall population, the company estimates that the number of offshore support vessels under construction (355 vessels) represents approximately 13% of the remaining worldwide fleet of approximately 2,800 offshore support vessels.

Although the future attrition rate of the older offshore support vessels cannot be determined with certainty, the company believes that the retirement and/or sale to owners outside of the oil and gas market of a vast majority of these aged vessels (a majority of which the company believes have already been stacked or are not being actively marketed to oil and gas development-focused customers by the vessels’ owners) could mitigate the potential negative effects on vessel utilization and vessel pricing of (i) additional offshore support vessel supply resulting from the delivery of additional new-build vessels and (ii) reduced demand for offshore support vessels resulting from reduced E&amp;P spending. Similarly, the cancellation or deferral of delivery of some portion of the 355 offshore support vessels that are under construction according to IHS-Petrodata would also mitigate the potential negative effects on vessel utilization and vessel pricing of reduced demand for offshore support vessels resulting from reduced E&amp;P spending. 

In addition, we and other offshore support vessel owners have selectively stacked more recently constructed vessels as a result of the significant reduction in our customers’ offshore oil and gas-related activity and the resulting more challenging offshore support vessel market that has existed since late calendar 2014. Should market conditions continue to remain depressed, the stacking or underutilization of additional more recently constructed vessels by the offshore supply vessel industry is likely. 

Challenges We Confront as an International Offshore Vessel Company 

We operate in many challenging operating environments around the world that present varying degrees of political, social, economic and other uncertainties. We operate in markets where risks of expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of our vessels or other assets, terrorism, piracy, civil unrest, changing foreign currency exchange rates, and changing political conditions may adversely affect our operations. Although the company takes what it believes to be prudent measures to safeguard its property, personnel and financial condition against these risks, it cannot eliminate entirely the foregoing risks, though the wide geographic dispersal of the company’s vessels helps reduce the overall potential impact of these risks. 

In addition, immigration, customs, tax and other regulations (and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof) can have a material impact on our ability to work in certain countries and on our operating costs. 

In some international operating environments, local customs or laws may require or make it advisable that the company form joint ventures with local owners or use local agents. The company is dedicated to carrying out its international operations in compliance with the rules and regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), the Trading with the Enemy Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and other applicable laws and regulations. The company has adopted policies and procedures to mitigate the risks of violating these rules and regulations. 

Sonatide Joint Venture 

As previously reported, in November 2013, a subsidiary of the company and its joint venture partner in Angola, Sonangol Holdings Lda. ("Sonangol"), executed a new joint venture agreement for their joint venture, Sonatide. The joint venture agreement is currently effective and will expire, unless extended, two years after a new Angolan entity, which is intended to be one of the Sonatide group of companies, has been incorporated. Based on recent communications with our partner and the appropriate ministry in Luanda, the Angolan entity is expected to be incorporated in calendar 2016 after certain Angolan regulatory approvals have been obtained.

The challenges for the company to successfully operate in Angola remain significant. As the company has previously reported, on July 1, 2013, additional elements of legislation (the "forex law") became effective that generally require oil companies engaged in exploration and production activities offshore Angola through governmental concessions to pay for goods and services provided by foreign exchange residents in Angolan kwanzas that are initially deposited into an Angolan bank account. The forex law also imposes documentation and other requirements on service companies such as Sonatide in order to effect payments that are denominated in currencies other than Angolan kwanzas. The forex law has resulted in substantial customer payments being made to Sonatide in Angolan kwanzas. A cumbersome payment process has deprived the company of significant cash and liquidity, because the conversion of Angolan kwanzas into U.S. dollars and the subsequent expatriation of the funds causes payment delays, additional operating costs and, through the company’s 49% ownership of Sonatide, foreign exchange losses. The payment process exposes the company to further risk of currency devaluation prior to Sonatide’s conversion of Angolan kwanza-denominated bank deposits to U.S. dollars and potentially additional taxes. 

In response to the adoption of the forex law, the company and Sonangol negotiated and signed an agreement (the "consortium agreement") that allowed the Sonatide joint venture to enter into contracts with customers that allocate billings for services provided by Sonatide between (i) billings for local services that are provided by a foreign exchange resident (that must be paid in Angolan kwanzas), and (ii) billings for services provided offshore (that can be paid in U.S. dollars). Sonatide successfully converted select customer contracts to this split billing arrangement during the quarters ended March 31, 2015 and June 30, 2015. The consortium agreement expired in November 2015, and the parties have been discussing signing a new consortium agreement for a one year term. If the parties are unable to agree on a new consortium agreement, the parties would need to negotiate the terms of a new split billing arrangement that would continue to allow the company to receive U.S. dollar payments for services provided offshore. In addition, it is not clear if this type of contracting will be available to Sonatide over the longer term. If the company is unable to reach agreement on a new split billing arrangement, any contract entered into after the expiration of the consortium agreement may result in the receipt of 100% Angolan kwanzas, which would be subject to the challenges and risks described above. The split billing arrangements entered into with customers prior to the expiration of the consortium agreement remain in force.

In November 2014, the National Bank of Angola issued regulations controlling the sale of foreign currency. These regulations generally require oil companies to channel any U.S. dollar sales they choose to make through the National Bank of Angola to buy Angolan kwanzas that are required to be used to pay for goods and services provided by foreign exchange resident oilfield service companies. These foreign exchange resident oilfield services companies, in turn, generally have a need to source U.S. dollars in order to pay for goods and services provided offshore. The regulations continue to permit tripartite agreements among oil companies, commercial banks and service companies that provide for the sale of U.S. dollars by an oil company to a commercial bank in exchange for Angolan kwanzas. These same U.S. dollars are then sold onward by the commercial bank to the service company. The implementing regulations do, however, place constraints on those tripartite agreements that did not previously exist, and the period of time that the tripartite agreements will be allowed remains uncertain. If tripartite agreements or similar arrangements are not available to service companies in Angola that have a need for U.S. dollars, then such service companies will be required to source U.S. dollars exclusively through the National Bank of Angola. Sonatide has had some success to date in negotiating tripartite agreements and it continues to work with customers, commercial banks and the National Bank of Angola in regards to utilizing these arrangements.

For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, the company collected (primarily through Sonatide) approximately $215 million from its Angolan operations, which is slightly more than the approximately $213 million of revenue recognized for the same period. Of the $215 million collected, approximately $122 million were U.S. dollars received by Sonatide on behalf of the company or U.S. dollars directly received by the company from customers. The balance of $93 million collected resulted from Sonatide’s converting Angolan kwanza into U.S. dollars and subsequently expatriating the dollars to facilitate payment to the company. Additionally, the company received an approximate $15 million dividend payment from the Sonatide joint venture during the third quarter of fiscal 2016. The company also reduced the net due from affiliate and due to affiliate balances by approximately $84 million during the year ended March 31, 2016 through netting transactions based on an agreement with the joint venture.

For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, the company collected (primarily through Sonatide) approximately $338 million from its Angola operations, which is slightly less than the approximately $351 million of revenue recognized for the same period. Of the $338 million collected, approximately $159 million represented U.S. dollars received by Sonatide on behalf of the company or U.S. dollars directly received by the company from customers. The balance of $179 million that was collected in fiscal 2015 resulted from Sonatide’s converting Angolan kwanzas into U.S. dollars and subsequently expatriating the U.S. dollars to facilitate payment to the company. Additionally, the company received an approximate $10 million dividend payment from the Sonatide joint venture during the third quarter of fiscal 2015.

The company believes that the process for converting Angolan kwanzas continues to function, but the tight U.S. dollar liquidity situation continues in Angola. Sonatide continues to press its commercial banks with which it has relationships to increase the amount of U.S. dollars that are made available to Sonatide. 

As of March 31, 2016, the company had approximately $339 million in amounts due from Sonatide, with approximately $97 million of the balance reflecting invoiced but unpaid vessel revenue related to services performed by the company through the Sonatide joint venture. Remaining amounts due to the company from Sonatide are generally supported by cash (primarily denominated in Angolan kwanzas) held by Sonatide that is pending conversion into U.S. dollars and the subsequent expatriation of such funds.

For the year ended March 31, 2016, the company’s Angolan operations generated vessel revenues of approximately $213 million, or 22%, of its consolidated vessel revenue, from an average of approximately 65 company-owned vessels that are marketed through the Sonatide joint venture (eight of which were stacked on average during the year ended March 31, 2016), and, for the year ended March 31, 2015, generated vessel revenues of approximately $351 million, or 23%, of consolidated vessel revenue, from an average of approximately 80 company-owned vessels (eight of which were stacked on average during the year ended March 31, 2015).

Sonatide owns eight vessels (three of which are currently stacked) and certain other assets, in addition to earning commission income from company-owned vessels marketed through the Sonatide joint venture (owned 49% by the company). In addition, as of March 31, 2016, Sonatide maintained the equivalent of approximately $119 million of primarily Angolan kwanza-denominated deposits in Angolan banks, largely related to customer receipts that had not yet been converted to U.S. dollars, expatriated and then remitted to the company, and approximately $3 million of U.S. dollar-denominated deposits in banks outside of Angola. As of March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015, the carrying value of the company’s investment in the Sonatide joint venture, which is included in "Investments in, at equity, and advances to unconsolidated companies," is approximately $37 million and $67 million, respectively.

Due from affiliate at March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015 of approximately $339 million and $420 million, respectively, represents cash received by Sonatide from customers and due to the company, and amounts due from customers that are expected to be remitted to the company through Sonatide. The collection of the amounts due to Sonatide from customers, and the subsequent conversion and expatriation process are subject to those risks and considerations set forth above.

Due to affiliate at March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015 of approximately $188 million and $186 million, respectively, represents amounts due to Sonatide for commissions payable (approximately $32 million and $66 million, respectively) and other costs paid by Sonatide on behalf of the company.

A presidential decree regulating maritime transportation activities was enacted in Angola in 2014. Following recent discussions with port state authorities and local counsel, the company remains uncertain whether the authorities will interpret the decree to require one hundred percent Angolan ownership of local vessel operators such as Sonatide. This interpretation may result in the need to work with Sonangol to further restructure our Sonatide joint venture and our operations in Angola. The company is seeking further clarification of the new decree. The company is exploring potential alternative structures in order to comply.

The Angolan government enacted a statute, which came into effect on June 30, 2015, for a new levy that could impose an additional 10% surcharge on certain foreign exchange transactions. The specific details of the levy have not yet been disclosed and it is not clear if this new statute will apply to Sonatide’s scope of operations. The additional surcharge has not been imposed on any Sonatide transactions to date. The company has undertaken efforts to mitigate the effects of the levy, in the event the levy does apply to Sonatide’s operations, including successfully negotiating rate adjustments and termination rights with some of its customers. The company will be unlikely to completely mitigate the effects of the levy, resulting in increased costs and lower margins, if the levy is interpreted to apply to Sonatide’s operations.

Management continues to explore ways to profitably participate in the Angolan market while looking for opportunities to reduce the overall level of exposure to the increased risks that the company believes currently characterize the Angolan market. Included among mitigating measures taken by the company to address these risks is the redeployment of vessels from time to time to other markets. Redeployment of vessels to and from Angola during the year ended March 31, 2016 has resulted in a net 23 vessels transferred out of Angola.

As the company considers the redeployment of additional vessels from Angola to other markets, there would likely be temporary negative financial effects associated with such redeployment, including mobilization costs and costs to redeploy the company’s shore-based employees to other areas, in addition to lost revenues associated with potential 

downtime between vessel contracts. These financial impacts could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the company’s results of operations and cash flows for the periods when such costs would be incurred. The recent decline in crude oil and natural gas prices, the reduction in spending expectations among E&amp;P companies, the number of new-build vessels which are expected to deliver within the next two years and the resulting potential overcapacity in the worldwide offshore support vessel market may exacerbate such negative financial effects, particularly if a large re-deployment were undertaken by the company in the near- to intermediate-term. 

International Labour Organization’s Maritime Labour Convention 

The International Labour Organization's Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 (the "Convention") mandates globally, among other things, seafarer living and working conditions (accommodations, wages, conditions of employment, health and other benefits) aboard ships that are engaged in commercial activities. Since its initial entry into force on August 20, 2013, 72 countries have now ratified the Convention, making for a diverse geographic footprint of enforcement.

Accordingly, the company continues prioritizing certification of its vessels to Convention requirements based on the dates of enforcement by countries in which the company has operations, performs maintenance and repairs at shipyards, or may make port calls during ocean voyages. Once obtained, vessel certifications are intended to be maintained, regardless of the area of operation. Additionally, where possible, the company continues to work with operationally identified flag states to seek substantial equivalencies to comparable national and industry laws that meet the intent of the Convention. When obtained, these substantial equivalencies, allow the company to maintain its long-standing operational protocols that meet the requirements of the Convention and mitigate changes in business processes that would offer no additional substantive benefits to crew members. As ratifications continue, the company continues to assess its global seafarer labor relationships and fleet operational practices to not only undertake compliance with the Convention but also gauge the impact of effective enforcement, the effects of which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.

Government Regulation 

The company is subject to various United States federal, state and local statutes and regulations governing the operation and maintenance of its vessels. The company’s U.S. flagged vessels are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States Coast Guard, the United States Customs and Border Protection, and the United States Maritime Administration. The company is also subject to international laws and conventions and the laws of international jurisdictions where the company and its offshore vessels operate. 

Under the citizenship provisions of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920 and the Shipping Act, 1916, as amended, the company would not be permitted to engage in the U.S. coastwise trade if more than 25% of the company’s outstanding stock were owned by non-U.S. citizens. For a company engaged in the U.S. coastwise trade to be deemed a U.S. citizen: (i) the company must be organized under the laws of the United States or of a state, territory or possession thereof, (ii) each of the chief executive officer and the chairman of the board of directors of such corporation must be a U.S. citizen, (iii) no more than a minority of the number of directors of such corporation necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business can be non-U.S. citizens and (iv) at least 75% of the interest in such company must be owned by U.S. citizens. The company has a dual stock certificate system to protect against non-U.S. citizens owning more than 25% of its common stock. In addition, the company’s charter provides the company with certain remedies with respect to any transfer or purported transfer of shares of the company’s common stock that would result in the ownership by non-U.S. citizens of more than 24% of its common stock. Based on information supplied to the company by its transfer agent, approximately 10% of the company’s outstanding common stock was owned by non-U.S. citizens as of March 31, 2016. 

The company’s vessel operations in the U.S. GOM are considered to be coastwise trade. United States law requires that vessels engaged in the U.S. coastwise trade must be built in the U.S. and registered under U.S flag. In addition, once a U.S. built vessel is registered under a non-U.S. flag, it cannot thereafter engage in U.S. coastwise trade. Therefore, the company’s non-U.S. flagged vessels must operate outside of the U.S. coastwise trade zone. Of the total 278 vessels owned or operated by the company at March 31, 2016, 250 vessels were registered under flags other than the United States and 28 vessels were registered under the U.S. flag. 

All of the company’s offshore vessels are subject to either United States or international safety and classification standards or sometimes both. U.S. flag deepwater PSVs, deepwater AHTS vessels, towing-supply vessels, and crewboats are required to undergo periodic inspections twice within every five year period pursuant to U.S. Coast Guard regulations. Vessels registered under flags other than the United States are subject to similar regulations and are governed by the laws of the applicable international jurisdictions and the rules and requirements of various classification societies, such as the American Bureau of Shipping. 

The company is in compliance with the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS), an amendment to the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) Convention (1974/1988), and further mandated in the Maritime Transportation and Security Act of 2002 to align United States regulations with those of SOLAS and the ISPS Code. Under the ISPS Code, the company performs worldwide security assessments, risk analyses, and develops vessel and required port facility security plans to enhance safe and secure vessel and facility operations. Additionally, the company has developed security annexes for those U.S. flag vessels that transit or work in waters designated as high risk by the United States Coast Guard pursuant to the latest revision of Marsec Directive 104-6. 

Environmental Compliance 

During the ordinary course of business, the company’s operations are subject to a wide variety of environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of oil and pollutants into navigable waters. Violations of these laws may result in civil and criminal penalties, fines, injunctions and other sanctions. Compliance with the existing governmental regulations that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment has not had, nor is expected to have, a material effect on the company. Environmental laws and regulations are subject to change, however, and may impose increasingly strict requirements, and, as such, the company cannot estimate the ultimate cost of complying with such potential changes to environmental laws and regulations. 

The company is also involved in various legal proceedings that relate to asbestos and other environmental matters. The amount of ultimate liability, if any, with respect to these proceedings is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The company is proactive in establishing policies and operating procedures for safeguarding the environment against any hazardous materials aboard its vessels and at shore-based locations. 

Whenever possible, hazardous materials are maintained or transferred in confined areas in an attempt to ensure containment, if accidents were to occur. In addition, the company has established operating policies that are intended to increase awareness of actions that may harm the environment. 

Safety 

We are dedicated to ensuring the safety of our operations for both our employees and our customers. Tidewater’s principal operations occur in offshore waters where the workplace environment presents many safety challenges. Management communicates frequently with company personnel to promote safety and instill safe work habits through the use of company media directed at, and regular training of, both our seamen and shore-based personnel. Personnel and resources are dedicated to ensure safe operations and regulatory compliance. Our Director of Health, Safety, Environment and Security (HSES) Management is involved in numerous proactive efforts to prevent accidents and injuries from occurring. The HSES Director also reviews all incidents that occur throughout the company, focusing on lessons that can be learned from such incidents and opportunities to incorporate such lessons into the company’s on-going safety-related training. In addition, the company employs safety personnel in every operating region to be responsible for administering the company’s safety programs and fostering the company’s safety culture. The company’s position is that each of its employees is a safety supervisor, who has the authority and the obligation to stop any operation that they deem to be unsafe. 

Risk Management 

The operation of any marine vessel involves an inherent risk of marine losses (including physical damage to the vessel) attributable to adverse sea and weather conditions, mechanical failure, and collisions. In addition, the nature of our operations exposes the company to the potential risks of damage to and loss of drilling rigs and production facilities: hostile activities attributable to war, sabotage, piracy and terrorism, as well as business interruption due to political action or inaction, including nationalization of assets by foreign governments. Any such event may lead to a reduction in revenues or increased costs. The company’s vessels are generally insured for their estimated market value against damage or loss, including war, acts of terrorism, and pollution risks, but the company does not directly or fully insure for business interruption. The company also carries workers’ compensation, maritime employer’s liability, director and officer liability, general liability (including third party pollution) and other insurance customary in the industry. 

The company seeks to secure appropriate insurance coverage at competitive rates, in part, by maintaining self-insurance up to certain individual and aggregate loss limits. The company carefully monitors claims and participates actively in claims estimates and adjustments. Estimated costs of self-insured claims, which include estimates for incurred but unreported claims, are accrued as liabilities on our balance sheet. 

The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have significantly increased the risk of political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which the company operates. It is possible that further acts of terrorism may be directed against the United States domestically or abroad, and such acts of terrorism could be directed against properties and personnel of U.S. headquartered companies such as ours. The resulting economic, political and social uncertainties, including the potential for future terrorist acts and war, could cause the premiums charged for our insurance coverage to increase. The company currently maintains war risk coverage on its entire fleet. 

Management believes that the company’s insurance coverage is adequate. The company has not experienced a loss in excess of insurance policy limits; however, there is no assurance that the company’s liability coverage will be adequate to cover potential claims that may arise. While the company believes that it should be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates considered commercially acceptable, it cannot guarantee that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially acceptable rates given the markets in which the company operates. 

Seasonality 

The company’s global vessel fleet generally has its highest utilization rates in the warmer months when the weather is more favorable for offshore exploration, field development and construction work. Hurricanes, cyclones, the monsoon season, and other severe weather can negatively or positively impact vessel operations. In particular, the company’s U.S. GOM operations can be impacted by the Atlantic hurricane season from the months of June through November, when offshore exploration, field development and construction work tends to slow or halt in an effort to mitigate potential losses and damage that may occur to the offshore oil and gas infrastructure should a hurricane enter the area. However, demand for offshore marine vessels typically increases in the U.S. GOM in connection with repair and remediation work that follows any hurricane damage to offshore crude oil and natural gas infrastructure. The company’s vessels that operate offshore India in Southeast Asia and in the Western Pacific are impacted by the monsoon season, which moves across the region from November to April. Vessels that operate in the North Sea can be impacted by a seasonal slowdown in the winter months, generally from November to March. Vessels that operate in Australia are impacted by cyclone season from November to April. Customers in this region, where possible, plan business activities around the cyclone season; however, Australia generally has high trade winds even during the non-cyclone season and, as such, the impact of the cyclone season on any operations in Australia is not significant. Although hurricanes, cyclones, monsoons and other severe weather can have a seasonal impact on operations, the company’s business volume is more dependent on crude oil and natural gas pricing, global supply of crude oil and natural gas, and demand for the company’s offshore support vessel and other services than on any seasonal variation. 

Employees 

As of March 31, 2016, the company had approximately 6,550 employees worldwide. The company strives to maintain excellent relations with its employees. The company is not a party to any union contract in the United States but through several subsidiaries is a party to union agreements covering local nationals in several countries other than the United States. In the past, the company has been the subject of a union organizing campaign for the U.S. GOM employees by maritime labor unions. These union organizing efforts have abated, although the threat has not been completely eliminated. If the employees in the U.S. GOM were to unionize, the company’s flexibility in managing industry changes in the domestic market could be adversely affected. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The name of each of our executive officers, together with their respective age and all offices held as of March 31, 2016 is as follows: 

Name

Age

Position

Jeffrey M. Platt

President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2012. Chief Operating Officer since March 2010. Executive Vice President since July 2006. Senior Vice President from 2004 to June 2006. Vice President from 2001 to 2004.

Jeffrey A. Gorski

Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President since June 2012. Senior Vice President from January 2012 to May 2012. Prior to January 2012, Mr. Gorski was a Vice-President of Global Accounts with Schlumberger Inc., a publicly-held oilfield services company.

Quinn P. Fanning

Chief Financial Officer since September 2008. Executive Vice President since July 2008. 

Bruce D. Lundstrom

Executive Vice President since August 2008. General Counsel and Secretary since September 2007. Senior Vice President from September 2007 to July 2008.

Joseph M. Bennett

Executive Vice President since June 2008. Chief Investor Relations Officer since 2005. Senior Vice President from 2005 to May 2008. Principal Accounting Officer from 2001 to May 2008. Vice President from 2001 to 2005.

There are no family relationships between any of the directors or executive officers of the company or any arrangements or understandings between any of the executive officers and any other person pursuant to which any of the executive officers were selected as an officer. The company’s executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors and serve for one-year terms or until their successors are elected. 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge, on or through our website ( www.tdw.com ), our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and amendments to such filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after each is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains the company’s reports, proxy and information statements, and the company’s other SEC filings. The address of the SEC’s website is www.sec.gov . Information appearing on the company’s website is not part of any report that it files with the SEC. 

The company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code), which is applicable to its directors, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and other officers and employees on matters of business conduct and ethics, including compliance standards and procedures. The Code is publicly available on our website at www.tdw.com . We will make timely disclosure by a Current Report on Form 8-K and on our website of any change to, or waiver from, the Code for our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and principal accounting officer. Any changes or waivers to the Code will be maintained on the company’s website for at least 12 months. A copy of the Code is also available in print to any stockholder upon written request addressed to Tidewater Inc., 601 Poydras Street, Suite 1500, New Orleans, Louisiana 70130. 

