 Item 1. 

Business 

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 relating to our future operations and prospects, including statements that are based on current projections and expectations about the markets in which we operate, and management's beliefs concerning future performance and capital requirements based upon current available information. Actual results could differ materially from management's current expectations. Additional capital may be required and, if so, may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, at the times and in the amounts we need. In addition to these factors and others described elsewhere in this report, other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include competitive and cyclical factors relating to the aerospace industry, dependence of some of our businesses on key customers, requirements of capital, product liabilities in excess of insurance, uncertainties relating to the integration of acquired businesses, general economic conditions affecting our business segment, technological developments, limited availability of raw materials or skilled personnel, changes in governmental regulation and oversight, and international hostilities and terrorism. For a more detailed discussion of these and other factors affecting us, see the Risk Factors described in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to revise these forward-looking statements to reflect future events. 

General 

Triumph Group, Inc. ("Triumph", the "Company", "we", "us", or "our") was incorporated in 1993 in Delaware. Our companies design, engineer, manufacture, repair, overhaul and distribute a broad portfolio of aerostructures, aircraft components, accessories, subassemblies and systems. We serve a broad, worldwide spectrum of the aviation industry, including original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, of commercial, regional, business and military aircraft and aircraft components, as well as commercial and regional airlines and air cargo carriers. 

Products and Services 

We offer a variety of products and services to the aerospace industry through three operating segments: (i) Triumph Aerostructures Group, whose companies' revenues are derived from the design, manufacture, assembly and integration of metallic and composite aerostructures and structural components for the global aerospace OEM market; (ii) Triumph Aerospace Systems Group, whose companies design, engineer and manufacture a wide range of proprietary and build-to-print components, assemblies and systems also for the OEM market; and (iii) Triumph Aftermarket Services Group, whose companies serve aircraft fleets, notably commercial airlines, the U.S. military and cargo carriers, through the maintenance, repair and overhaul of aircraft components and accessories manufactured by third parties. 

Our Aerostructures Group &#32;utilizes its capabilities to design, manufacture and build complete metallic and composite aerostructures and structural components. This group also includes companies performing complex manufacturing, machining and forming processes for a full range of structural components, as well as complete assemblies and subassemblies. This group services the full spectrum of aerospace customers, which include aerospace OEMs and the top-tier manufacturers who supply them and airlines, air cargo carriers, and domestic and foreign militaries. 

The products that companies within this group design, manufacture, build and repair include: 

Acoustic and thermal insulation systems 

Engine nacelles 

Aircraft wings 

Flight control surfaces 

Composite and metal bonding 

Helicopter cabins 

Composite ducts and floor panels 

Precision machined parts 

Comprehensive processing services 

Stretch-formed leading edges and fuselage skins 

Empennages 

Wing spars and stringers 

Our Aerospace Systems Group &#32;utilizes its capabilities to design and engineer mechanical, electromechanical, hydraulic and hydromechanical control systems, while continuing to broaden the scope of detailed parts and assemblies that we supply to the aerospace market. Customers typically return such systems to us for repairs and overhauls and spare parts. This group services the full spectrum of aerospace customers, which include aerospace OEMs and the top-tier manufacturers who supply them and airlines, air cargo carriers, and domestic and foreign militaries. 

The products that companies within this group design, engineer, build and repair include: 

Aircraft and engine mounted accessory drives 

Thermal control systems and components 

Cargo hooks 

High lift actuation 

Cockpit control levers 

Hydraulic systems and components 

Comprehensive processing services 

Landing gear actuation systems 

Control system valve bodies 

Landing gear components and assemblies 

Electronic engine controls 

Main engine gear box assemblies 

Exhaust nozzles and ducting 

Main fuel pumps 

Geared transmissions and drive train components 

Secondary flight control systems 

Fuel metering units 

Vibration absorbers 

Our Aftermarket Services Group &#32;performs maintenance, repair and overhaul services ("MRO") and supplies spare parts for the commercial and military aviation industry and primarily services the world's airline and air cargo carrier customers. This group also designs, engineers, manufactures, repairs and overhauls aftermarket aerospace gas turbine engine components, offers comprehensive MRO solutions, leasing packages, exchange programs and parts and services to airline, air cargo and third-party overhaul facilities. We also continue to develop Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") approved Designated Engineering Representative ("DER") proprietary repair procedures for the components we repair and overhaul, which range from detailed components to complex subsystems. Companies in our Aftermarket Services Group repair and overhaul various components for the aviation industry including: 

Air cycle machines 

Blades and vanes 

APUs 

Cabin panes, shades, light lenses and other components 

Constant speed drives 

Combustors 

Engine and airframe accessories 

Stators 

Flight control surfaces 

Transition ducts 

Integrated drive generators 

Sidewalls 

Nacelles 

Light assemblies 

Remote sensors 

Overhead bins 

Thrust reversers 

Fuel bladder cells 

Certain financial information about our three segments is set forth in Note 21 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 

Effective April 2016, the Company announced that it is realigning into four business units to better meet the evolving needs of its customers. The new structure better supports our go-to-market strategies and will allow us to more effectively satisfy the needs of our customers while continuing to deliver on our commitments, accelerate organic growth and drive predictable profitability. During the first quarter of fiscal 2017, our segment financial performance information will be presented in accordance with these new four business units. 

The four business units are as follows: 

&#8226; 

Integrated Systems. &#32;Provides integrated solutions including design, development and support of proprietary components, subsystems and systems, as well as production of complex assemblies using external designs. Capabilities include hydraulic, mechanical and electro-mechanical actuation, power and control; a complete suite of aerospace gearbox solutions including engine accessory gearboxes and helicopter transmissions; active and passive heat exchange technology; fuel pumps, fuel metering units and Full Authority Digital Electronic Control fuel systems; hydro-mechanical and electromechanical primary and secondary flight controls; and a broad spectrum of surface treatment options. 

&#8226; 

Aerospace Structures. Supplies commercial, business, regional and military manufacturers with large metallic and composite structures. Products include wings, wing boxes, fuselage panels, horizontal and vertical tails and sub-assemblies such as floor grids. Inclusive of the former Vought Aircraft Division, Aerospace Structures also has the capability to engineer detailed structural designs in metal and composites. 

&#8226; 

Precision Components. Produces close-tolerance parts primarily to customer designs and model-based definition, including a wide range of aluminum, hard metal and composite structure capabilities. Capabilities include complex machining, gear manufacturing, sheet metal fabrication, forming, advanced composite and interior structures, joining processes such as welding, autoclave bonding and conventional mechanical fasteners and a variety of special processes including: super plastic titanium forming, aluminum and titanium chemical milling and surface treatments. 

&#8226; 

Product Support. Provides full life cycle solutions for commercial, regional and military &#32; aircraft. &#32;&#32; Triumph&#8217;s extensive product and service offerings include full post-delivery value chain services that simplify the MRO supply chain. Through its line maintenance, component MRO and postproduction supply chain activities, Triumph&#8217;s Product Support group is positioned to provide integrated planeside repair solutions globally. Capabilities include fuel tank repair, metallic and composite aircraft structures, nacelles, thrust reversers, interiors, auxiliary power units and a wide variety of pneumatic, hydraulic, fuel and mechanical accessories. 

Proprietary Rights 

We benefit from our proprietary rights relating to designs, engineering and manufacturing processes and repair and overhaul procedures. For some products, our unique manufacturing capabilities are required by the customer's specifications or designs, thereby necessitating reliance on us for the production of such specially designed products. 

We view our name and mark, as well as the Vought and Embee tradenames, as significant to our business as a whole. Our products are protected by a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses or other forms of intellectual property that expire at various dates in the future. We continually develop and acquire new intellectual property and consider all of our intellectual property to be valuable. However, based on the broad scope of our product lines, management believes that the loss or expiration of any single intellectual property right would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial position or our business segments. Our policy is to file applications and obtain patents for our new products as appropriate, including product modifications and improvements. While patents generally expire 20 years after the patent application filing date, new patents are issued to us on a regular basis. 

In our overhaul and repair businesses, OEMs of equipment that we maintain for our customers often include language in repair manuals that relate to their equipment, asserting broad claims of proprietary rights to the contents of the manuals used in our operations. There can be no assurance that OEMs will not try to enforce such claims, including the possible use of legal proceedings. In the event of such legal proceedings, there can be no assurance that such actions against the Company will be unsuccessful. However, we believe that our use of manufacture and repair manuals is lawful. 

Raw Materials and Replacement Parts 

We purchase raw materials, primarily consisting of extrusions, forgings, castings, aluminum and titanium sheets and shapes and stainless steel alloys, from various vendors. We also purchase replacement parts, which are utilized in our various repair and overhaul operations. We believe that the availability of raw materials to us is adequate to support our operations. 

Sales, Marketing and Engineering 

While each of our operating companies maintains responsibility for selling and marketing its specific products, we have developed two marketing teams at the group level who are focused on cross-selling our broad capabilities. One team supports the Aerostructures and Aerospace Systems Groups and the other the Aftermarket Services Group. These teams are responsible for selling systems, integrated assemblies and repair and overhaul services, reaching across our operating companies, to our OEM, military, airline and air cargo customers. In certain limited cases, we use independent, commission-based representatives to serve our customers' changing needs and the current trends in some of the markets and geographic regions in which we operate. 

The two group-level marketing teams operate as the front-end of the selling process, establishing or maintaining relationships, identifying opportunities to leverage our brand, and providing service for our customers. Each individual operating company is responsible for its own technical support, pricing, manufacturing and product support. Also, within the Aerospace Systems Group, we have created a group engineering function to provide integrated solutions to meet our customer needs by designing systems that integrate the capabilities of our companies. 

A significant portion of our government and defense contracts are awarded on a competitive bidding basis. We generally do not bid or act as the primary contractor, but will typically bid and act as a subcontractor on contracts on a fixed-price basis. We generally sell to our other customers on a fixed-price, negotiated contract or purchase order basis. 

Backlog 

We have a number of long-term agreements with several of our customers. These agreements generally describe the terms under which the customer may issue purchase orders to buy our products and services during the term of the agreement. These terms typically include a list of the products or repair services customers may purchase, initial pricing, anticipated quantities and, to the extent known, delivery dates. In tracking and reporting our backlog, however, we only include amounts for which we have actual purchase orders with firm delivery dates or contract requirements generally within the next 24 months, which primarily relate to sales to our OEM customer base. Purchase orders issued by our aftermarket customers are usually completed within a short period of time. As a result, our backlog data relates primarily to the OEM customers. The backlog information set forth below does not include the sales that we expect to generate from long-term agreements for which we do not have actual purchase orders with firm delivery dates. 

As of March 31, 2016 , we had outstanding purchase orders representing an aggregate invoice price of approximately $4.15 billion , of which $2.96 billion , $1.15 billion &#32;and $37 million &#32;relate to the Aerostructures Group, the Aerospace Systems Group and the Aftermarket Services Group, respectively. As of March 31, 2015 , our continuing operations had outstanding purchase orders representing an aggregate invoice price of approximately $5.03 billion , of which $3.74 billion , $1.24 billion &#32;and $42 million &#32;related to the Aerostructures Group, the Aerospace Systems Group and the Aftermarket Services Group, respectively. The sharp decline in backlog was due to the production rate reductions on key programs such as Boeing 747-8, 777 and G450/G550. Of the existing backlog of $4.15 billion , approximately $1.50 billion &#32;will not be shipped by March 31, 2017 . 

Dependence on Significant Customers 

For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 , the Boeing Company ("Boeing") represented approximately 38% , 42% &#32;and 45% , respectively, of our net sales, covering virtually every Boeing plant and product. 

For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 , Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation ("Gulfstream") represented approximately 12% , 9% &#32;and 8% , respectively, of our net sales, covering several of Gulfstream's products. 

A significant reduction in sales to Boeing and/or Gulfstream would have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

United States and International Operations 

Our revenues from customers in the United States for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 &#32;,were approximately $3,088 million , $3,136 million , and $3,142 million , respectively. Our revenues from customers in all other countries for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 , were approximately $798 million , $753 million , and $622 million , respectively. 

As of March 31, 2016 and 2015 , our long-lived assets located in the United States were approximately $2,746 million &#32;and $3,683 million , respectively. As of March 31, 2016 and 2015 , our long-lived assets located in all other countries were approximately $347 million &#32;and $367 million , respectively. 

Competition 

We compete primarily with Tier 1 and Tier 2 aerostructures manufacturers, systems suppliers and component manufacturers, some of which are divisions or subsidiaries of other large companies, in the manufacture of aircraft structures, systems components, subassemblies and detail parts. OEMs are increasingly focusing on assembly and integration activities while outsourcing more manufacturing and, therefore, are less of a competitive force than in previous years. 

Competition for the repair and overhaul of aviation components comes from four primary sources, some of whom possess greater financial and other resources than we have: OEMs, major commercial airlines, government support depots and other independent repair and overhaul companies. Some major commercial airlines continue to own and operate their own service centers, while others have begun to sell or outsource their repair and overhaul services to other aircraft operators or third parties. Large domestic and foreign airlines that provide repair and overhaul services typically provide these services not only for their own aircraft but for other airlines as well. OEMs also maintain service centers which provide repair and overhaul services for the components they manufacture. Many governments maintain aircraft support depots in their military organizations that maintain and repair the aircraft they operate. Other independent service organizations also compete for the repair and overhaul business of other users of aircraft components. 

Participants in the aerospace industry compete primarily on the basis of breadth of technical capabilities, quality, turnaround time, capacity and price. 

Government Regulation and Industry Oversight 

The aerospace industry is highly regulated in the United States by the FAA and in other countries by similar agencies. We must be certified by the FAA and, in some cases, by individual OEMs, in order to engineer and service parts and components used in specific aircraft models. If material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our operations would be adversely affected. New and more stringent government regulations may be adopted, or industry oversight heightened, in the future and these new regulations, if enacted, or any industry oversight, if heightened, may have an adverse impact on us. 

We must also satisfy the requirements of our customers, including OEMs, that are subject to FAA regulations, and provide these customers with products and repair services that comply with the government regulations applicable to aircraft components used in commercial flight operations. The FAA regulates commercial flight operations and requires that aircraft components meet its stringent standards. In addition, the FAA requires that various maintenance routines be performed on aircraft components, and we currently satisfy these maintenance standards in our repair and overhaul services. Several of our operating locations are FAA-approved repair stations. 

Generally, the FAA only grants licenses for the manufacture or repair of a specific aircraft component, rather than the broader licenses that have been granted in the past. The FAA licensing process may be costly and time-consuming. In order to obtain an FAA license, an applicant must satisfy all applicable regulations of the FAA governing repair stations. These regulations require that an applicant have experienced personnel, inspection systems, suitable facilities and equipment. In addition, the applicant must demonstrate a need for the license. Because an applicant must procure manufacturing and repair manuals from third parties relating to each particular aircraft component in order to obtain a license with respect to that component, the application process may involve substantial cost. 

The license approval processes for the European Aviation Safety Agency ("EASA"), which regulates this industry in the European Union, the Civil Aviation Administration of China, and other comparable foreign regulatory authorities are similarly stringent, involving potentially lengthy audits. EASA was formed in 2002 and is handling most of the responsibilities of the national aviation authorities in Europe, such as the United Kingdom Civil Aviation Authority. 

Our operations are also subject to a variety of worker and community safety laws. For example, the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, or OSHA, mandates general requirements for safe workplaces for all employees in the United States. In addition, OSHA provides special procedures and measures for the handling of hazardous and toxic substances. Specific safety standards have been promulgated for workplaces engaged in the treatment, disposal or storage of hazardous waste. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with OSHA's health and safety requirements. 

Environmental Matters 

Our business, operations and facilities are subject to numerous stringent federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulation by government agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). Among other matters, these regulatory authorities impose requirements that regulate the emission, discharge, generation, management, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, pollutants and contaminants, govern public and private response actions to hazardous or regulated substances which may be or have been released to the environment, and require us to obtain and maintain licenses and permits in connection with our operations. This extensive regulatory framework imposes significant compliance burdens and risks on us. Although management believes that our operations and our facilities are in material compliance with such laws and regulations, future changes in these laws, regulations or interpretations thereof or the nature of our operations or regulatory enforcement actions which may arise, may require us to make significant additional capital expenditures to ensure compliance in the future. 

Certain of our facilities, including facilities acquired and operated by us or one of our subsidiaries have at one time or another been under active investigation for environmental contamination by federal or state agencies when acquired, and at least in some cases, continue to be under investigation or subject to remediation for potential environmental contamination. We are frequently indemnified by prior owners or operators and/or present owners of the facilities for liabilities which we incur as a result of these investigations and the environmental contamination found which pre-dates our acquisition of these facilities, subject to certain limitations. We also maintain a pollution liability policy that provides coverage for material liabilities associated with the clean-up of on-site pollution conditions, as well as defense and indemnity for certain third-party suits (including Superfund liabilities at third-party sites), in each case, to the extent not otherwise indemnified. This policy applies to all of our manufacturing and assembly operations worldwide. Also, as we proceed with our plans to exit certain facilities as part of restructuring and related initiatives, the need for remediation for potential environmental contamination could be 

identified. If we are required to pay the expenses related to environmental liabilities because neither indemnification nor insurance coverage is available, these expenses could have a material adverse effect on us. 

Employees 

As of March 31, 2016 , we employed 14,602 &#32;persons, of whom 3,465 &#32;were management employees, 125 &#32;were sales and marketing personnel, 782 &#32;were technical personnel, 889 &#32;were administrative personnel and 9,341 &#32;were production workers. Our segments were composed of the following employees: Aerostructures Group - 9,595 &#32;persons, Aerospace Systems Group - 3,567 &#32;persons, Aftermarket Services Group - 1,311 &#32;persons, and Corporate - 129 &#32;persons. 

Several of our subsidiaries are parties to collective bargaining agreements with labor unions. Under those agreements, we currently employ approximately 1,907 &#32;full-time employees. Currently, approximately 13% &#32;of our permanent employees are represented by labor unions and approximately 51% &#32;of net sales are derived from the facilities at which at least some employees are unionized. The collective bargaining agreement with our union employees with International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers ("IAM") District 751 at our Spokane, Washington facility has expired. As of May 11, 2016, the workforce in Spokane of approximately 400 employees has elected to strike. While we are currently in negotiations with the workforce, we have implemented plans to continue production in Spokane with support from other locations. Of the 1,907 &#32;employees represented by unions, 591 &#32;employees are working under contracts that have expired or will expire within one year and 475 &#32;employees in our Red Oak, Texas and 386 &#32;employees in our Tulsa, Oklahoma facilities have not yet negotiated initial contracts. Our inability to negotiate an acceptable contract with any of these labor unions could result in strikes by the affected workers and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 

Research and Development Expenses 

Certain information about our research and development expenses for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 &#32;is available in Note 2 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 

Executive Officers 

Name 

Age 

&#160; 

Position 

Daniel J. Crowley 

&#160; 

President and Chief Executive Officer and Director 

Jeffrey L. McRae 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 

John B. Wright, II 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 

Thomas A. Quigley, III 

&#160; 

Vice President and Controller 

Thomas Holtzhum 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Integrated Systems 

MaryLou Thomas 

&#160; 

Acting Executive Vice President, Aerospace Structures 

Rick Rozenjack 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Precision Components 

Michael Abram 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Product Support 

Richard Lovely 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, Human Resources 

Daniel J. Crowley &#32;was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company on January 4, 2016. Previously, Mr. Crowley served as President of two Raytheon Company business areas from 2010 through 2015. Prior to Raytheon, Mr. Crowley served as Chief Operating Officer of Lockheed Martin Aeronautics after holding a series of increasingly responsible assignments across its space, electronics, and aeronautics sectors. 

Jeffrey L. McRae &#32;has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2014. Mr. McRae was named President of Triumph Aerostructures &#8211; Vought Aircraft Division in October 2013, having previously served as President of Triumph Aerostructures &#8211; Vought Integrated Programs Division and Chief Financial Officer for Triumph Aerostructures &#8211; Vought Aircraft Division, a position he had assumed upon the completion of Triumph&#8217;s acquisition of Vought Aircraft Industries, Inc. in June 2010. Prior to the acquisition, Mr. McRae had served as Vought&#8217;s Vice President of Business Operations, and had been employed by the Company since 2007. 

John B. Wright, II &#32;has been a Vice President and our General Counsel and Secretary since 2004. From 2001 until he joined us, Mr. Wright was a partner with the law firm of Ballard Spahr LLP, where he practiced corporate and securities law. 

Thomas A. Quigley, III &#32;has been our Vice President and Controller since November 2012, and serves as the Company's principal accounting officer. Mr. Quigley has served as the Company's SEC Reporting Manager since January 2009. From June 2002 until joining Triumph in 2009, Mr. Quigley held various roles within the audit practice of KPMG LLP, including Senior Audit Manager. 

Thomas Holzthum &#32;was appointed Executive Vice President, Integrated Systems in April 2016. Prior thereto, he served as Corporate Vice President-Systems since 2013 with responsibility for eight Triumph Group companies in the Aerospace Systems segment. He joined Triumph in 1998 with the acquisition of Frisby Aerospace, where he held the position of Group Director, Hydraulics. Mr. Holzthum previously served as President of Triumph Actuation Systems-Connecticut and more recently led the successful integration of the hydraulic actuation business of GE Aviation after its acquisition. 

MaryLou Thomas &#32;was appointed acting Executive Vice President, Aerospace Structures in April 2016. Prior thereto, she was Corporate Vice President - Composites, Structures and Interiors business area with operations in the United States, Mexico, Thailand and U.K. Ms. Thomas has more than thirty years of experience in the aerospace and defense industry, including service at Lockheed, Boeing and the Company. 

Rick Rosenjack &#32;was appointed Executive Vice President, Precision Components in April 2016. He previously served as Corporate Vice President-Structures responsible for the Triumph Structures&#8217; group of companies, having joined Triumph in October 2014. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Rosenjack was Chief Operating Officer of HM Dunn AeroSystems, and Vice President and General Manager of Precision Castparts Corp (PCC) after the acquisition of Heroux Devtek Aerostructures in 2012. Before that, Mr. Rosenjack spent 20 years with Textron, Inc., including five years with Bell Helicopter where he was Senior Vice President of the Commercial Helicopter Business. 

Michael Abram &#32;was appointed Executive Vice President, Product Supply in April 2016. Since joining Triumph in 2003 as Vice President of Operations for Triumph Airborne Structures, Mr. Abram has served as Vice President of Triumph Aftermarket Services Group, North America and, most recently, Vice President-Aftermarket Services Group, where he was responsible for the company&#8217;s maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) activities supporting commercial, regional, business and military aircraft worldwide. Before joining Triumph, he was Vice President of Operations for NORDAM Repair Division. Mr. Abram has extensive international business operations experience establishing start-up MRO facilities in Europe and Singapore. 

Richard Lovely &#32;was appointed Senior Vice President, Human Resources in April 2016. Prior thereto, he served as Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources for Houghton International and Executive Vice President, Human Resources for Rohm and Haas. 

Available Information 

For more information about us, visit our website at www.triumphgroup.com. The contents of the website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our electronic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") (including all Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and any amendments to these reports) are available free of charge through our website immediately after we electronically file with or furnish them to the SEC. These filings may also be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room which is located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information about the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers who file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

