 ITEM 1. Business 

Our Company 

The Enviromart Companies, Inc. (the &#147;Company&#148;), formerly known as Environmental Science and Technologies, Inc., was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 18, 2012. On June 21, 2013, the Company completed an acquisition of intangible assets comprised of intellectual property and trademarks from its Chief Executive Officer. In conjunction with the acquisition of the intangible assets, the Company commenced operations. As of June 30, 2013 the Company had more than nominal operations and no longer considered itself to be a &#147;shell company&#148; within the meaning of applicable securities laws. In particular, as of such date, the Company had raised capital, hired employees, leased space, engaged consultants and advisors, conducted extensive sales and marketing related activities (both domestically and internationally), negotiated vendor and supplier relationships and engaged seller&#146;s representatives. Moreover, the Company has, since June 30, 2013, realized material revenues from its EnviroPack and SpillCon businesses, which arose from its sales and marketing activities conducted prior to June 30, 2013. 

As of January 2, 2015, the Company&#146;s business is operated through its wholly-owned subsidiary, EnviroPack Technologies, Inc. Effective on or about January 15, 2015, the Company changed its name to The Enviromart Companies, Inc. and the Company&#146;s wholly-owned subsidiary, EnviroPack Technologies, Inc., changed its name to Enviromart Industries, Inc. The Company&#146;s other wholly owned subsidiaries are currently inactive.

Planned Sale of Operating Business 

On February 16, 2016, The Rushcap Group, Inc. (&#147;Rushcap&#148;), an affiliate of Mark Shefts (then a significant shareholder), notified us that, effective March 31, 2016, it was discontinuing its funding of our wholly owned subsidiary under the Inventory Financing Agreement dated June 19, 2015. Rushcap reserved the right to discontinue the funding prior to March 31, 2016, if it so determined. Thus far, Rushcap has since March 31, continued to provide funding. The discontinuation of funding will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation, as we do not believe that it will be able to timely secure funding to replace the discontinued Inventory Financing.

In light of the discontinuation of funding, our Board of Directors spent approximately one month assessing the operating company&#146;s current business and funding prospects, including whether to transfer the operating subsidiary to Michael R. Rosa, our founder and a significant shareholder, in accordance with that certain Agreement between the Company, Mr. Rosa and Mr. Shefts, dated July 14, 2014 (&#147;Break-up Agreement&#148;). The Break-up Agreement was disclosed in the Company&#146;s Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 18, 2014, which is incorporated herein by this reference. 

Our Board of Directors concluded that the discontinuation of funding would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation, as it did not believe that it would be able to timely secure funding to replace the discontinued Inventory Financing.

On March 17, 2016, our Board of Directors approved the sale of our sole operating subsidiary, Enviromart Industries, Inc., to Michael R. Rosa, our founder and a significant shareholder, as contemplated by that certain Agreement between us, Mr. Rosa and Mark Shefts, dated July 14, 2014 (&#147;Break-up Agreement&#148;). The Break-up Agreement was originally disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 18, 2014, which is incorporated herein by this reference. 

On March 21, 2016, we entered into a Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement with Michael R. Rosa and Enviromart Industries, Inc., our sole operating subsidiary, pursuant to which we will transfer to Mr. Rosa all the issued and outstanding capital stock of Enviromart Industries, Inc.

In consideration for the transfer of the operating subsidiary to Mr. Rosa, of the 13,567,500 shares of our common stock currently owned by him, Mr. Rosa will surrender to us 12,567,500 shares, which shares will be returned to the status of authorized and unissued shares. In addition, Mr. Rosa and Enviromart Industries, Inc. have agreed to assume and discharge any and all of our liabilities existing as the closing date, of which there are expected to be none, as all of our operations have been conducted through Enviromart Industries, Inc. (our sole operating subsidiary).

The above described purchase and sale transaction is expected to close on or about May 31, 2016, effective March 31, 2016, and must be approved by a majority of our shareholders, which approval we intend to obtain by written consent. Upon consummation of the purchase and sale transaction, our operating business will have been discontinued, and we will focus on seeking to acquire a profitable operating business with strong growth potential.

On March 23, 2016, Mr. George Adyns resigned from our board of directors, but will remain as President, Secretary and CFO until the closing of the purchase and sale transaction.

All of the disclosures in this Annual report on Form 10-K must be viewed in light of the planned disposition of our sole operating subsidiary, as once this transaction is complete, our operating business will have been discontinued, and the value of our company will be dependent upon our ability to locate and consummate the acquisition of a profitable operating business with strong growth potential.

Products and Services 

Our EnviroPack product line consists of environmental compliance packaging solutions for environmentally sensitive waste materials. Our SpillCon product line focuses on the distribution of spill control products for marine and land based oil and chemical spills.

EnviroPack products consist of hazardous waste disposal and containment products for environmentally sensitive waste materials. Waste materials are typically generated from the by-products of a diverse list of manufacturing companies. In addition, EnviroPack products are used for the remediation and clean-up of legacy Superfund waste sites related to the disposal of environmental waste accumulated over time. 

SpillCon product categories include products designed to aid in the detection, response, deployment, containment, clean up and remediation of oil and chemical spills. Our SpillCon product mix is a compilation of several of the premier sorbent manufacturers in the industry. Certain SpillCon products are proprietary and unique in design and functionality. 

Our products are largely geared towards environmental cleanup and emergency response firms that are certified to handle, process and treat a wide variety of hazardous and non-hazardous waste materials. In addition, both large and small manufacturing companies that generate waste through their processing facilities are ideal candidates for our products. Municipalities and utilities are also prime prospects for our proprietary product lines. 

The market for EnviroPack/SpillCon products is broken down into three customer categories - Environmental Response companies, Supply Dealers and Waste Generators. Each group consists of three sub-groups: a few Tier 1, several Tier 2 and numerous Tier 3 Customers. Tier 1 Environmental customers consist of national environmental response firms with multiple locations throughout the US. Environmental Tier 2 clients are more regional in scope with several locations. The Tier 1 and 2 firms are all about the same size in specific locations. Environmental Tier 3 customers are smaller and regional in scope with one main location from which they operate. The same basic market structure (Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3) exists with respect to Supply Dealers and Waste Generators. 

Demand for our EnviroPack/SpillCon products is driven to a significant extent by the existence and rigorous enforcement of federal environmental and transportation regulations. In particular, strict enforcement of regulations of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Department of Transportation (DOT) and Homeland Security (US Coast Guard) has a positive impact on the demand for our products.

Marketing and Distribution 

We market and distribute our products and services primarily through a direct sales force. In addition, we market and distribute our products and services through authorized distributors.

EnviroPack/SpillCon 

EnviroPack/SpillCon products are distributed through several channels. Our core method of distribution is through select and established container, safety supply and material handling distributors strategically located throughout the US and Canada. All products are currently being warehoused in our central distribution center in Southern NH. We intend when our resources permit where appropriate to use public warehousing facilities throughout the US to assist in rapid delivery of products to the environmental emergency response market.

Competition 

In general, we compete against much larger entities, most of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do. We operate in an extremely competitive market for all of our product offerings. 

EnviroPack/SpillCon 

Our environmental waste packaging products (EnviroPack) compete against offerings of such companies as Georgia-Pacific and International Paper. Our environmental spill response and control products (SpillCon) compete with such companies as New Pig Corporation, Brady Corporation, Complete Environmental Products, Inc. and Sellars Absorbent Materials, Inc. Our main competitors consist of a few regional companies scattered throughout the US. No one company has dominant market share. There are no major competitors in our geographical region. 

We also believe that our product designs and certifications are superior in quality to the other regional companies in our space. We believe that the EnviroPack brands are among the most recognized in the environmental waste containment industry.

In general, the companies that our businesses compete with have financial and other resources far in excess of our resources, which results in a very difficult competitive environment for the Company. This challenging competitive environment has many potential adverse effects, including making it much more difficult for the Company to secure new business, as well as retain existing business. In addition, the competitive environment in which we operate tends to limit our gross margins and our ability to pass increasing costs onto our customers. Finally, since our competitors generally have substantially greater financial and other resources, than do we, they generally have a far greater capacity to innovate, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage, and, accordingly have an adverse effect upon our business.

We compete in all our markets on the basis of meeting our customers&#146; business needs with a viable solution that offers high quality products at an affordable price, coupled with a high level of customer support and service.

Raw Materials and Principal Suppliers 

EnviroPack/SpillCon 

Our manufacturers, which are ISO certified, source the raw materials for and manufacture our finished products utilizing our proprietary designs. Generally, our products are produced on a purchase order basis, as we do not have manufacturing agreements with the companies who manufacture our products. We hand pick our manufacturers based on several factors, including location, size, certifications, machinery capabilities and price competitiveness. Our EnviroPack products incorporate primarily the following raw materials: corrugated paper, polyethylene and polypropylene. Currently, with respect to EnviroPack, our manufacturers include International Paper, Greif, Norampac and Laddawn. We also utilize Tier 2 manufacturers for approximately 25% of our purchased inventory. 

Our SpillCon products incorporate primarily the following raw materials: polypropylene, polymers, cellulose, and other organic, inorganic and synthetic materials, all with various degrees of sorbency properties. With respect to SpillCon, our manufacturers include Spilltech, ESP, ProSorbents and Omni/Ajax, among others. 

Customers 

EnviroPack/SpillCon 

We anticipate that our largest account will not represent more than 15% of our overall EnviroPack / Spillcon business.

Personnel 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 10 persons.

Intellectual Property 

In general, we rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, and confidentiality procedures to protect our technology. Due to the technological change that characterizes our business, we believe that the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how and the development of new products are generally as important as patent protection in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage.

EnviroPack/SpillCon 

Our EnviroPack product mix is considered proprietary and unique in its design and functionality. Our SpillCon product mix is comprised of many products which are also considered proprietary in design and functionality.

As of December 31, 2015, we do not own any patents and had no patents pending. We have not been nor are we currently involved in or aware of any litigation regarding any of our intellectual property.

We have a number of registered trademarks which we consider important to the protection of our EnviroPack brands.

Governmental Regulation 

EnviroPack/SpillCon 

EnviroPack products must undergo an extensive certification process by a 3rd party permitted testing facility as designated by the Department of Transportation. The products must comply with applicable federal regulations. Each product carries with it its own unique certification number and must be legibly marked on each package. The certification must be performed annually to ensure compliance with QA/QC standards. SpillCon products undergo specific sorbency testing by our manufacturers and many products are tested at OMHSETT in New Jersey. OMHSETT is the largest outdoor saltwater wave/tow tank facility in North America and is the only facility where full-scale oil spill response equipment testing, research, and training can be conducted in a marine environment with oil under controlled environmental conditions (waves and oil types).

Vigorous enforcement of environmental laws and regulations drives demand for our environmental containment products, as our products enable our customers to maintain compliance with regulations concerning packaging, storage and shipping of environmentally sensitive waste materials for processing and disposal. In addition, vigorous enforcement of regulations of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as the governing agency for the US Coast Guard also drive demand for our SpillCon products. Conversely, lax enforcement of these laws and regulations could diminish demand for our containment and spill control products. 

Seasonality 

From inception (Q2 2013) through December 31, 2015, the Company realized approximately $4,420,000 in revenues. Accordingly, we do not yet have a complete historical basis to determine whether our revenue will be subject to seasonal fluctuation. Based on our history to date, we do anticipate some seasonality in our revenues, with somewhat lower revenues during the summer and winter months.

Available Information 

The public may read and copy any materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to the foregoing, at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10 AM to 3 PM. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains periodic and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding the Company and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

