 Item 1. Business 

General 

Brookline Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, operates as a multi-bank holding company for Brookline Bank and its subsidiaries, Bank Rhode Island ("BankRI") and its subsidiaries, First Ipswich Bank ("First Ipswich") and its subsidiaries, and Brookline Securities Corp. 

Brookline Bank, which includes its wholly-owned subsidiaries, BBS Investment Corp. and Longwood Securities Corp., and its 84.5% -owned subsidiary, Eastern Funding LLC ("Eastern Funding"), operates 25 &#32;full-service banking offices in the greater Boston metropolitan area. Brookline Bank was established as a savings bank in 1871 under the name Brookline Savings Bank. The Company was organized in November 1997 for the purpose of acquiring all of the capital stock of Brookline Savings Bank on completion of the reorganization of Brookline Savings Bank from a mutual savings bank into a mutual holding company structure and partial public offering. In 2002, the Company became fully public. In January 2003, Brookline Savings Bank changed its name to Brookline Bank. 

On February 28, 2011, the Company acquired First Ipswich Bancorp, the holding company for First Ipswich, headquartered in Ipswich, Massachusetts. First Ipswich, which includes its wholly-owned subsidiaries, First Ipswich Insurance Agency and First Ipswich Securities II Corp. , operates 5 &#32;full-service banking offices on the north shore of eastern Massachusetts. In June 2012, the First National Bank of Ipswich changed its name to First Ipswich Bank. 

On January 1, 2012, the Company acquired Bancorp Rhode Island, Inc., a Rhode Island corporation and holding company for BankRI, headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island. BankRI, which includes its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Acorn Insurance Agency, BRI Realty Corp., Macrolease Corporation ("Macrolease"), and BRI Investment Corp. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, BRI MSC Corp., operates 19 full-service banking offices in the greater Providence, Rhode Island area. 

As a commercially-focused financial institution with 49 full-service banking offices throughout greater Boston, the north shore of Massachusetts, and Rhode Island, the Company, through Brookline Bank, BankRI and First Ipswich (individually and collectively, the "Banks"), offers a wide range of commercial, business and retail banking services, including a full complement of cash management products, on-line banking services, consumer and residential loans and investment services, designed to 

meet the financial needs of small- to mid-sized businesses and individuals throughout central New England. Specialty lending activities including equipment financing are focused primarily in the New York and New Jersey metropolitan area. 

The Company focuses its business efforts on profitably growing its commercial lending businesses, both organically and through acquisitions. The Company's customer focus, multi-bank structure, and risk management are integral to its organic growth strategy and serve to differentiate the Company from its competitors. As full-service financial institutions, the Banks and their subsidiaries focus on the continued addition of well-qualified customers, the deepening of long-term banking relationships through a full complement of products and excellent customer service, and strong risk management. The Company's multi-bank structure retains the local-bank orientation while relieving local bank management of the responsibility for most back-office functions, which are consolidated at the holding company level. Branding and decision-making, including credit decisions and pricing, remain largely local in order to better meet the needs of bank customers and further motivate the Banks' commercial, business and retail bankers. 

The Company, has, from time to time, acquired other business lines or financial institutions that it believes share the Company's relationship and customer service orientations and provide access to complementary markets, customers, products and services. The Company expanded its geographic footprint with the acquisitions of First Ipswich in February 2011 and BankRI in January 2012. 

The Company's headquarters and executive management are located at 131 Clarendon Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02116 and its telephone number is 617-425-4600. 

The loan and lease portfolio grew $172.9 million , or 3.6% , to $5.0 billion &#32;as of December 31, 2015 &#32;from $4.8 billion &#32;as of December 31, 2014 . The Company's commercial loan portfolios, which are comprised of commercial real estate loans and commercial loans and leases, continued to exhibit growth. The $403.8 million &#32;increase in the commercial loan portfolios in 2015 was partially offset by a $303.3 million decrease in the indirect automobile portfolio due to the sale in the first quarter of 2015 of more than 90% of the indirect automobile portfolio. The Company's commercial loan portfolios, which totaled $4.0 billion , or 80.8% &#32;of total loans and leases, as of December 31, 2015 , increased $403.8 million , or 11.1% , from $3.6 billion , or 75.4% &#32;of total loans and leases, as of December 31, 2014 . 

Total deposits increased $347.9 million , or 8.8% , to $4.3 billion &#32;as of December 31, 2015 &#32;from $4.0 billion &#32;as of December 31, 2014 . Core deposits, which include demand checking, NOW, money market and savings accounts, increased 6.9% &#32;to $3.2 billion &#32;as of December 31, 2015 . The Company's core deposits decreased as a percentage of total deposits to 74.7% &#32;as of December 31, 2015 &#32;from 76.1% &#32;as of December 31, 2014 . 

Throughout 2015 , the Company added $ 7.4 million &#32;to its allowance for loan and lease losses and experienced net charge-offs of $ 4.3 million &#32;to bring the balance to $ 56.7 million &#32;as of December 31, 2015 . The ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses to total loans and leases was 1.14% &#32;as of December 31, 2015 &#32;compared to 1.11% &#32;as of December 31, 2014 . Excluding the loans acquired from BankRI and First Ipswich, the ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses related to originated loans and leases was 1.20% &#32;as of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 1.20% &#32;as of December 31, 2014 &#32;respectively. Nonperforming assets as of December 31, 2015 &#32;were $20.7 million , up &#32;from $15.2 million &#32;at the end of 2014 . Nonperforming assets were 0.34% &#32;and 0.26% &#32;of total assets as of December 31, 2015 &#32;and December 31, 2014 , respectively. The Company's credit quality compares favorably to its peers, and remains a top priority within the Company. 

Net interest income increased in 2015 &#32;$ 5.3 million , or 2.8% , to $ 194.4 million &#32;compared to $ 189.1 million &#32;in 2014 . The net interest margin decreased &#32; 7 &#32;basis points to 3.54% &#32;in 2015 &#32;from 3.61% &#32;in 2014 . Net income for 2015 &#32; increased &#32;$ 6.5 million , or 15.0% , to $ 49.8 million &#32;from $ 43.3 million &#32;for 2014 . Basic and fully diluted earnings per common share ("EPS") increased &#32;to $0.71 &#32;for 2015 &#32;from $0.62 &#32;for 2014 . 

Competition 

The Company provides banking alternatives in the greater Boston, Massachusetts, and Providence, Rhode Island, metropolitan marketplaces, each of which is dominated by several large national banking institutions. Based on total deposits at June 30, 2015 , the Company ranks eighteenth in deposit market share among bank holding companies in the Massachusetts market area and fifth in deposit market share among bank holding companies in the Rhode Island market area. The Company faces considerable competition in its market area for all aspects of banking and related service activities. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations is expected to continue with the Company facing strong competition in generating loans and attracting deposits. 

In addition to other commercial banks, the Company's main competition for generating loans includes savings banks, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and other financial services companies. Competitive factors considered for loan generation include product offerings, interest rates, terms offered, services provided and geographic locations. Lending services for the Company are concentrated in the greater Boston, Massachusetts, and Providence, Rhode 

Island, metropolitan areas, eastern Massachusetts, southern New Hampshire, and other Rhode Island areas, while the Company's equipment financing activities are primarily concentrated in the greater New York and New Jersey metropolitan markets. 

The Company's primary competitors for attracting deposits are savings banks, commercial banks, credit unions, and other non-depository institutions such as securities and brokerage firms and insurance companies. Competitive factors considered in attracting and retaining deposits include product offerings and rate of return, convenient branch locations and automated teller machines and online access to accounts. Deposit customers are generally in communities where banking offices are located. 

Market Area and Credit Risk Concentration 

As of December 31, 2015 , the Company, through its Banks, operated 49 &#32;full-service banking offices in greater Boston, Massachusetts, and greater Providence, Rhode Island. The Banks' deposits are gathered from the general public primarily in the communities in which the banking offices are located. The deposit market in Massachusetts and Rhode Island is highly concentrated. Based on June 30, 2015 &#32;FDIC statistics, the five largest banks in Massachusetts have an aggregate market share of approximately 66% , and the three largest banks in Rhode Island have an aggregate deposit market share of approximately 73% . The Banks' lending activities are concentrated primarily in the greater Boston, Massachusetts, and Providence, Rhode Island, metropolitan areas, eastern Massachusetts, southern New Hampshire and other Rhode Island areas. In addition, the Company, through subsidiaries of Brookline Bank and BankRI, conducts equipment financing activities in the greater New York and New Jersey metropolitan area and elsewhere in the United States. 

Commercial real estate loans. &#32;Multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans typically generate higher yields, but also involve greater credit risk. In addition, many of the Banks' borrowers have more than one multi-family or commercial real estate loan outstanding. The Banks manage this credit risk by prudent underwriting: conservative debt service coverage, and LTV ratios at origination, lending to seasoned real estate owners/managers, using reasonable capitalization ratios, cross-collateralizing loans to one borrower when deemed prudent, and limiting the amount and types of construction lending. As of December 31, 2015 , the largest commercial real estate relationship in the Company&#8217;s portfolio was $57.0 million . Many of the Banks&#8217; commercial real estate customers have other commercial borrowing relationships with the Banks. 

Commercial loans and equipment leasing. &#32;Brookline Bank and First Ipswich originate commercial loans and leases for working capital and other business-related purposes, and concentrate such lending to companies located primarily in Massachusetts, and, in the case of Eastern Funding, in New York and New Jersey. BankRI originates commercial loans and lines of credit for various business-related purposes, for businesses located primarily in Rhode Island, and engages in equipment financing through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Macrolease, in New York and New Jersey. 

Because commercial loans are typically made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the business, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial and industrial loans may be significantly dependent on the success of the business itself. Further, the collateral securing the loans may be difficult to value, may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business and may deteriorate over time. For this reason, these loans and leases involve greater credit risk. Loans and leases originated by Eastern Funding generally earn higher yields because the borrowers are typically small businesses with limited capital such as laundries, dry cleaners, fitness centers, convenience stores and tow truck operators. The Macrolease equipment financing portfolio is comprised of small- to medium-sized businesses such as fitness centers, restaurants and other commercial equipment. The Banks manage the credit risk inherent in commercial lending by requiring strong debt service coverage ratios; limiting loan-to-value ratios; securing personal guarantees from borrowers; limiting industry concentrations; franchisee concentrations and duration of loan maturities; and employing adjustable rates without interest rate caps. As of December 31, 2015 , the largest commercial relationship in the Company&#8217;s portfolio was $21.5 million . 

Indirect auto loans. &#32;As of December 2014, Management ceased the origination of indirect automobile loans. Until December 2014, most of Brookline Bank's indirect automobile loans were originated through automobile dealerships located in Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island and New Hampshire. In March 2015, the Company made the decision and sold $255.2 million of the indirect automobile portfolio. As of December 31, 2015 , the largest indirect automobile loan in Brookline Bank's portfolio was $ 42.0 thousand . For regulatory purposes, Brookline Bank's indirect automobile loan portfolio is not classified as "subprime lending". Prior to Management's decision to cease originating indirect automobile loans, Brookline Bank had in place policies and procedures for loan underwriting and monitoring. Brookline Bank continues to carefully monitor the remaining indirect auto loan portfolio performance and the effect of economic conditions on consumers and the automobile industry. First Ipswich and BankRI do not engage in indirect automobile lending. 

Consumer loans. &#32;Retail customers of Brookline Bank and First Ipswich live and work in the Boston metropolitan area and eastern Massachusetts, are financially active and value personalized service and easy branch access. Retail customers of BankRI live and work throughout Rhode Island and value easy branch access, personalized service, and knowledge of local 

communities. The Banks' consumer loan portfolios, which include residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines of credit, and other consumer loans, cater to the borrowing needs of this customer base. Credit risk in these portfolios is managed by limiting loan-to-value ratios at loan origination and by requiring borrowers to demonstrate strong credit histories. As of December 31, 2015 , the largest consumer relationship in the Company&#8217;s portfolio was $8.3 million . 

Economic Conditions and Governmental Policies 

Repayment of multi-family and commercial real estate loans is generally dependent on the properties generating sufficient income to cover operating expenses and debt service. Repayment of commercial loans and equipment financing loans and leases generally is dependent on the demand for the borrowers' products or services and the ability of borrowers to compete and operate on a profitable basis. Repayment of residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and indirect automobile loans generally is dependent on the financial well-being of the borrowers and their capacity to service their debt levels. The asset quality of the Company's loan and lease portfolio, therefore, is greatly affected by the economy. 

Economic activity in the United States has shown continuous improvement since the latter half of 2009 after slowing significantly as a result of the 2008 financial crisis. According to the Department of Labor, the national unemployment rate peaked at 10.0% in October 2009. In December 2015 , the unemployment rate was 5.0% &#32;nationally, down from 5.6% &#32;at the end of 2014 . 

The Company's primary geographic footprints are the Boston, Massachusetts, and Providence, Rhode Island, metropolitan areas. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the largest employment sectors in both Massachusetts and Rhode island are, in order: education and health services; business and professional services; and trade; transportation and utilities, a sector that includes wholesale and retail trade. The unemployment rate in Massachusetts decreased to 4.7% &#32;in December 2015 &#32;from 5.5% &#32;in December 2014 , slightly lower than the national average. The unemployment rate in Rhode Island decreased to 5.1% &#32;in December 2015 &#32;from 6.8% &#32;in December 2014 , slightly higher than the national average. 

Should there be any setback in the economy or increase in the unemployment rates in the Boston, Massachusetts, or Providence, Rhode Island, metropolitan areas, the resulting negative consequences could affect occupancy rates in the properties financed by the Company and cause certain individual and business borrowers to be unable to service their debt obligations. 

The earnings and business of the Company are affected by external influences such as general economic conditions and the policies of governmental authorities, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "FRB"). The FRB regulates the supply of money and bank credit to influence general economic conditions throughout the United States of America. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the FRB affect interest rates earned on investment securities and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and borrowed funds. The rate-setting actions of the Federal Open Market Committee of the FRB have a significant effect on the Company's operating results and the level of growth in its loans and leases and deposits. 

Personnel 

As of December 31, 2015 , the Company had 675 &#32;full-time employees and 43 &#32;part-time employees. The employees are not represented by a collective bargaining unit and the Company considers its relationship with its employees to be good. 

Access to Information 

As a public company, Brookline Bancorp, Inc. is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), and in accordance therewith, files reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). The Company makes available on or through its internet website, www.brooklinebancorp.com, without charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, proxy, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company&#8217;s reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available at the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . Press releases are also maintained on the Company&#8217;s website. Additional information for Brookline Bank, BankRI and First Ipswich can be found at www.brooklinebank.com, www.bankri.com and www.firstipswich.com, respectively. Information on the Company&#8217;s and any subsidiary's website is not incorporated by reference into this document and should not be considered part of this Report. 

The Company&#8217;s common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market SM &#32;under the symbol &#8220;BRKL.&#8221; 

Supervision and Regulation 

The following discussion addresses elements of the regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of the safety and soundness of depository institutions, the federal deposit insurance system, and depositors, rather than for the protection of shareholders of a bank holding company such as the Company. 

As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#8220;BHCA&#8221;), and by the Massachusetts Division of Banks (the &#8220;MDOB&#8221;) under Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 167A. The FRB is also the primary federal regulator of the Banks. In addition, Brookline Bank and First Ipswich are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the MDOB, and BankRI is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Banking Division of the Rhode Island Department of Business Regulation (the &#8220;RIBD&#8221;). 

The following is a summary of certain aspects of various statutes and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. This summary is not a comprehensive analysis of all applicable law, and is qualified by reference to the applicable statutes and regulations. 

Regulation of the Company 

The Company is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, which has the authority, among other things, to order bank holding companies to cease and desist from unsafe or unsound banking practices; to assess civil money penalties; and to order termination of non-banking activities or termination of ownership and control of a non-banking subsidiary by a bank holding company. 

Source of Strength 

Pursuant to the BHCA, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is required to serve as a source of financial strength for the Banks in the event of the financial distress of the Banks. This provision of the Dodd-Frank Act codifies the longstanding policy of the FRB. This support may be required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide the additional financial support required by its subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a bank subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. 

Acquisitions and Activities 

The BHCA prohibits a bank holding company, without prior approval of the FRB, from acquiring all or substantially all the assets of a bank, acquiring control of a bank, merging or consolidating with another bank holding company, or acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of another bank or bank holding company if, after such acquisition, the acquiring bank holding company would control more than 5% of the voting shares of such other bank or bank holding company. Further, as a Massachusetts bank holding company, the Company must obtain the prior approval of the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation to acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of any voting stock in any other banking institution, acquire substantially all the assets of a bank, or merge with another bank holding company. 

The BHCA prohibits a bank holding company from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its subsidiary banks. However, a bank holding company may engage in and may own shares of companies engaged in certain activities that the FRB determines to be so closely related to banking or managing and controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. 

Limitations on Acquisitions of Company Common Stock 

The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring &#8220;control&#8221; of a bank holding company unless the FRB has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under a rebuttable presumption established by the FRB, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting securities of a bank holding company, such as the Company, with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, would, under the circumstances set forth in the presumption, constitute the acquisition of control of a bank holding company. In addition, the BHCA prohibits any company from acquiring control of a bank or bank holding company without first having obtained the approval of the FRB. Pursuant to the BHCA, a company is deemed to have control of a bank or bank holding company in a number of ways including: if the company owns, controls or holds with power to vote 25% or more of a class of voting securities of the bank or bank holding company; controls in any manner the election of a majority of directors or trustees of the bank or bank holding company; or the 

FRB has determined, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the company has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of the bank or bank holding company. 

Regulation of the Banks 

Brookline Bank and First Ipswich are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB and the MDOB. BankRI is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB and the RIBD. The enforcement powers available to federal and state banking regulators include, among other things, the ability to issue cease and desist or removal orders to terminate insurance of deposits; to assess civil money penalties; to issue directives to increase capital; to place the bank into receivership; and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. 

Deposit Insurance 

Deposit obligations of the Banks are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC&#8217;s Deposit Insurance Fund and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC deposit insurance limit to $250,000 per depositor for deposits maintained in the same right and capacity at a particular insured depository institution. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the &#8220;FDIA&#8221;), as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, requires the FDIC to take steps as may be necessary to cause the ratio of deposit insurance reserves to estimated insured deposits - the designated reserve ratio - to reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020, and it mandates that the reserve ratio designated by the FDIC for any year may not be less than 1.35%. The FDIC utilizes a risk-based assessment system that imposes insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account a bank&#8217;s capital level and supervisory rating (&#8220;CAMELS rating&#8221;). CAMELS ratings reflect the applicable bank regulatory agencies&#8217; evaluation of the financial institution&#8217;s capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk. Assessment rates may also vary for certain institutions based on long-term debt issuer ratings, issuance of unsecured debt and levels of brokered deposits. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, deposit premiums are based on assets rather than insurable deposits. To determine their actual deposit insurance premiums, each of the Banks computes its base amount on its average consolidated assets less its average tangible equity (defined as the amount of Tier 1 capital) and its applicable assessment rate. The Company&#8217;s FDIC deposit insurance costs totaled $3.5 million &#32;in 2015 . The FDIC has the power to adjust the assessment rates at any time. 

Under the FDIA, the FDIC may terminate deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. 

Cross-Guarantee 

Similar to the source of strength doctrine discussed above in &#8220;Regulation of the Company-Source of Strength,&#8221; under the cross-guarantee provisions of the FDIA, the FDIC can hold any FDIC-insured depository institution liable for any loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC in connection with (i) the &#8220;default&#8221; of a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution; or (ii) any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution &#8220;in danger of default.&#8221; 

Acquisitions and Branching 

The Banks must seek prior regulatory approval from the FRB to acquire another bank or establish a new branch office. Brookline Bank and First Ipswich must also seek prior regulatory approval from the MDOB to acquire another bank or establish a new branch office and BankRI must also seek prior regulatory approval from the RIBD to acquire another bank or establish a new branch office. Well capitalized and well managed banks may acquire other banks in any state, subject to certain deposit concentration limits and other conditions, pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes a state-chartered bank to establish new branches on an interstate basis to the same extent a bank chartered by the host state may establish branches. 

Activities and Investments of Insured State-Chartered Banks 

Section 24 of the FDIA generally limits the types of equity investments that FDIC-insured state-chartered banks, such as the Banks, may make and the kinds of activities in which such banks may engage, as a principal, to those that are permissible for national banks. Further, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the &#8220;GLBA&#8221;) permits state banks, to the extent permitted under state law, to engage through &#8220;financial subsidiaries&#8221; in certain activities which are permissible for subsidiaries of a financial holding company. In order to form a financial subsidiary, a state-chartered bank must be well capitalized, and must comply with certain capital deduction, risk management and affiliate transaction rules, among other requirements. 

Brokered Deposits 

Section 29 of the FDIA and federal regulations generally limit the ability of an insured depository institution to accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless the institution&#8217;s capital category is &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; or, with regulatory approval, &#8220;adequately capitalized.&#8221; Depository institutions, other than those in the lowest risk category, that have brokered deposits in excess of 10% of total deposits will be subject to increased FDIC deposit insurance premium assessments. Additionally, depository institutions considered &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; that need regulatory approval to accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposits are subject to additional restrictions on the interest rate they may pay on deposits. As of December 31, 2015 , none of the Banks had brokered deposits in excess of 10% of total deposits. 

The Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) requires the FRB to evaluate each of the Banks with regard to their performance in helping to meet the credit needs of the communities each of the Banks serve, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound banking operations, and to take this record into consideration when evaluating certain applications. The FRB&#8217;s CRA regulations are generally based upon objective criteria of the performance of institutions under three key assessment tests: (i) a lending test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s record of making loans in its service areas; (ii) an investment test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing, and programs benefiting low or moderate income individuals and businesses; and (iii) a service test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s delivery of services through its branches, ATMs, and other offices. Failure of an institution to receive at least a &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; rating could inhibit the Banks or the Company from undertaking certain activities, including engaging in activities permitted as a financial holding company under GLBA and acquisitions of other financial institutions. Each Bank has achieved a rating of &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; on its most recent CRA examination. Both Massachusetts and Rhode Island have adopted specific community reinvestment requirements which are substantially similar to those of the FRB. 

Lending Restrictions 

Federal law limits a bank&#8217;s authority to extend credit to its directors, executive officers and holders of more than 10% of the Company's common stock, as well as to entities controlled by such persons. Among other things, extensions of credit to insiders are required to be made on terms that are substantially the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons. Also, the terms of such extensions of credit may not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features and may not exceed certain limitations on the amount of credit extended to such persons, individually and in the aggregate, which limits are based, in part, on the amount of the bank&#8217;s capital. The Dodd-Frank Act explicitly provides that an extension of credit to an insider includes credit exposure arising from a derivatives transaction, repurchase agreement, reverse repurchase agreement, securities lending transaction or securities borrowing transaction. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act requires that asset sale transactions with insiders must be on market terms, and if the transaction represents more than 10% of the capital and surplus of the bank, be approved by a majority of the disinterested directors of the bank. 

Capital Adequacy and Safety and Soundness 

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

The FRB has issued risk-based and leverage capital rules applicable to U.S. banking organizations such as the Company and the Banks. These guidelines are intended to reflect the relationship between the banking organization&#8217;s capital and the degree of risk associated with its operations based on transactions recorded on-balance sheet as well as off-balance sheet items. The FRB may from time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above the minimum levels discussed below, due to the banking organization&#8217;s financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. 

The capital adequacy rules define qualifying capital instruments and specify minimum amounts of capital as a percentage of assets that banking organizations are required to maintain. Common equity Tier 1 capital generally includes common stock and related surplus, retained earnings and, in certain cases and subject to certain limitations, minority interest in consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, other non-qualifying intangible assets and certain other deductions. Tier 1 capital for banks and bank holding companies generally consists of the sum of common equity Tier 1 elements, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, and related surplus in certain cases and subject to limitations, minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries that do not qualify as common equity Tier 1 capital, less certain deductions. Tier 2 capital generally consists of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt and mandatory convertible debt securities, cumulative perpetual preferred stock, term subordinated debt and intermediate-term preferred stock, and, subject to limitations, allowances for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital less certain required deductions represents qualifying total risk-based capital. Prior to the effectiveness of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, bank holding companies were permitted to include trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual 

preferred stock in Tier 1 capital, subject to limitations. However, the FRB&#8217;s capital rule applicable to bank holding companies permanently grandfathers nonqualifying capital instruments, including trust preferred securities, issued before May 19, 2010 by depository institution holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2009, subject to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital. In addition, under rules that became effective January 1, 2015, accumulated other comprehensive income (positive or negative) must be reflected in Tier 1 capital; however, the Company was permitted to make a one-time, permanent election to continue to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income from capital. The Company has made this election. 

Under the capital rules, risk-based capital ratios are calculated by dividing common equity Tier 1, Tier 1, and total risk-based capital, respectively, by risk-weighted assets. Assets and off-balance sheet credit equivalents are assigned to one of several categories of risk-weights, based primarily on relative risk. Under the FRB's rules, the Company and the Banks are each required to maintain a minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio requirement of 4.5%, a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement of 6%, a minimum total capital requirement of 8% and a minimum leverage ratio requirement of 4%. Additionally subject to a transition schedule, these rules require an institution to establish a capital conservation buffer of common equity Tier 1 capital in an amount above the minimum risk-based capital requirements for "adequately capitalized" institutions equal to 2.5% of total risk weighted assets, or face restrictions on the ability to pay dividends, pay discretionary bonuses, and to engaged in share repurchases. 

A bank holding company, such as the Company, is considered "well capitalized" if the bank holding company (i) has a total risk based capital ratio of at least 10%, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, and (iii) is not subject to any written agreement order, capital directive or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. In addition, under the FRB's prompt corrective action rules, a state member bank is considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if it (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater; (iii) a common Tier 1 equity ratio of at least 6.5% or greater, (iv) a leverage capital ratio of 5.0% or greater; and (iv) is not subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. The FRB also considers: (i) concentrations of credit risk; (ii) interest rate risk; and (iii) risks from non-traditional activities, as well as an institution&#8217;s ability to manage those risks. When determining the adequacy of an institution&#8217;s capital, this evaluation is a part of the institution&#8217;s regular safety and soundness examination. Each of the Banks is currently considered well-capitalized under all regulatory definitions. 

Generally, a bank, upon receiving notice that it is not adequately capitalized (i.e., that it is &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221;), becomes subject to the prompt corrective action provisions of Section 38 of FDIA that, for example, (i) restrict payment of capital distributions and management fees, (ii) require that the FRB monitor the condition of the institution and its efforts to restore its capital, (iii) require submission of a capital restoration plan, (iv) restrict the growth of the institution&#8217;s assets and (v) require prior regulatory approval of certain expansion proposals. A bank that is required to submit a capital restoration plan must concurrently submit a performance guarantee by each company that controls the bank. A bank that is &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; (i.e., has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0%) will be subject to further restrictions, and generally will be placed in conservatorship or receivership within 90 days. 

The Banks are considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under the FRB's prompt corrective action rules and the Company is considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under the FRB's rules applicable to bank holding companies. 

Safety and Soundness Standards 

The FDIA requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to prescribe standards, by regulations or guidelines, relating to internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems, risk management, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, stock valuation and compensation, fees and benefits, and such other operational and managerial standards as the agencies deem appropriate. Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder. In addition, the federal banking agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; provisions of FDIA. See &#8220;Regulatory Capital Requirements&#8221; above. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties. 

Dividend Restrictions 

The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Banks. The revenue of the Company (on a parent company only basis) is derived primarily from dividends paid to it by the Banks. The right of the Company, and consequently the right of shareholders of the Company, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of the Banks through the payment of such dividends or otherwise is necessarily subject to the prior claims of creditors of the Banks (including depositors), except to the extent that certain claims of the Company in a creditor capacity may be recognized. 

Restrictions on Bank Holding Company Dividends 

The FRB has authority to prohibit bank holding companies from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for bank holding companies to pay dividends unless the bank holding company&#8217;s net income for the prior year is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Further, the Company's ability to pay dividends will be restricted if it does not maintain the required capital conservation buffer. See &#8220;Capital Adequacy and Safety and Soundness-Regulatory Capital Requirements&#8221; above. 

Restrictions on Bank Dividends 

The FRB has the authority to use its enforcement powers to prohibit a bank from paying dividends if, in its opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Federal law also prohibits the payment of dividends by a bank that will result in the bank failing to meet its applicable capital requirements on a pro forma basis. Payment of dividends by a bank is also restricted pursuant to various state regulatory limitations. 

Certain Transactions by Bank Holding Companies with their Affiliates 

There are various statutory restrictions on the extent to which bank holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries may borrow, obtain credit from or otherwise engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with their insured depository institution subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act amended the definition of affiliate to include an investment fund for which the depository institution or one of its affiliates is an investment adviser. An insured depository institution (and its subsidiaries) may not lend money to, or engage in covered transactions with, its non-depository institution affiliates if the aggregate amount of covered transactions outstanding involving the bank, plus the proposed transaction, exceeds the following limits: (i) in the case of any one such affiliate, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of the insured depository institution and its subsidiaries cannot exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of the insured depository institution; and (ii) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of the insured depository institution and its subsidiaries cannot exceed 20% of the capital stock and surplus of the insured depository institution. For this purpose, &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; are defined by statute to include a loan or extension of credit to an affiliate, a purchase of or investment in securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets from an affiliate unless exempted by the FRB, the acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate as collateral for a loan or extension of credit to any person or company, the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate, securities borrowing or lending transactions with an affiliate that creates a credit exposure to such affiliate, or a derivatives transaction with an affiliate that creates a credit exposure to such affiliate. Covered transactions are also subject to certain collateral security requirements. Covered transactions as well as other types of transactions between a bank and a bank holding company must be on market terms and not otherwise unduly favorable to the holding company or an affiliate of the holding company. As of December 31, 2015 , there were no such transactions. Moreover, Section 106 of the BHCA provides that, to further competition, a bank holding company and its subsidiaries are prohibited from engaging in certain tying arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, lease or sale of property of any kind, or furnishing of any service. As of December 31, 2015 , there were no such transactions. 

Consumer Protection Regulation 

The Company and the Banks are subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect consumers and prohibit unfair or deceptive business practices. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Fair Housing Act, Home Ownership Protection Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (the &#8220;FACT Act&#8221;), GLBA, Truth in Lending Act, the CRA, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, National Flood Insurance Act and various state law counterparts. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must interact with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans and providing other services. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"), which has the responsibility for making rules and regulations under the federal consumer protection laws relating to financial products and services. The CFPB also has a broad mandate to prohibit unfair or deceptive acts and practices and is specifically empowered to require certain disclosures to consumers and draft model 

disclosure forms. Failure to comply with consumer protection laws and regulations can subject financial institutions to enforcement actions, fines and other penalties. The FRB examines the Banks for compliance with CFPB rules and enforce CFPB rules with respect to the Banks. 

Mortgage Reform 

The Dodd-Frank Act prescribes certain standards that mortgage lenders must consider before making a residential mortgage loan, including verifying a borrower&#8217;s ability to repay such mortgage loan, and allows borrowers to assert violations of certain provisions of the Truth-in-Lending Act as a defense to foreclosure proceedings. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, prepayment penalties are prohibited for certain mortgage transactions and creditors are prohibited from financing insurance policies in connection with a residential mortgage loan or home equity line of credit. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act prohibits mortgage originators from receiving compensation based on the terms of residential mortgage loans and generally limits the ability of a mortgage originator to be compensated by others if compensation is received from a consumer. The Dodd-Frank Act requires mortgage lenders to make additional disclosures prior to the extension of credit, in each billing statement and for negative amortization loans and hybrid adjustable rate mortgages. Additionally, the CFPB&#8217;s qualified mortgage rule, (the &#8220;QM Rule&#8221;), requires creditors, such as the Banks, to make a reasonable good faith determination of a consumer's ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling prior to making the loan. 

Privacy and Customer Information Security 

The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. In general, the Banks must provide their customers with an annual disclosure that explains their policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required or permitted by law, the Banks are prohibited from disclosing such information except as provided in such policies and procedures. If the financial institution only discloses information under exceptions from the GLBA that do not require an opt out to be provided and if there has been no change in the financial institutions privacy policies and practices since its most recent disclosures provide to customers, an annual disclosure is not required to be provided by the financial institution. The GLBA also requires that the Banks develop, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information (as defined under GLBA), to protect against anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and to protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Banks are also required to send a notice to customers whose &#8220;sensitive information&#8221; has been compromised if unauthorized use of this information is &#8220;reasonably possible.&#8221; Most of the states, including the states where the Banks operate, have enacted legislation concerning breaches of data security and the duties of the Banks in response to a data breach. Congress continues to consider federal legislation that would require consumer notice of data security breaches. Pursuant to the FACT Act, the Banks must also develop and implement a written identity theft prevention program to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of certain accounts or certain existing accounts. Additionally, the FACT Act amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act to generally prohibit a person from using information received from an affiliate to make a solicitation for marketing purposes to a consumer, unless the consumer is given notice and a reasonable opportunity and a reasonable and simple method to opt out of the making of such solicitations. 

Anti-Money Laundering 

The Bank Secrecy Act 

Under the Bank Secrecy Act (&#8220;BSA&#8221;), a financial institution is required to have systems in place to detect certain transactions, based on the size and nature of the transaction. Financial institutions are generally required to report to the United States Treasury any cash transactions involving more than $10,000. In addition, financial institutions are required to file suspicious activity reports for any transaction or series of transactions that involve more than $5,000 and which the financial institution knows, suspects or has reason to suspect involves illegal funds, is designed to evade the requirements of the BSA or has no lawful purpose. The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the &#8220;USA PATRIOT Act&#8221;), which amended the BSA, is designed to deny terrorists and others the ability to obtain anonymous access to the U.S. financial system. The USA PATRIOT Act has significant implications for financial institutions and businesses of other types involved in the transfer of money. The USA PATRIOT Act, together with the implementing regulations of various federal regulatory agencies, has caused financial institutions, such as the Banks, to adopt and implement additional policies or amend existing policies and procedures with respect to, among other things, anti-money laundering compliance, suspicious activity, currency transaction reporting, customer identity verification and customer risk analysis. In evaluating an application under Section 3 of the BHCA to acquire a bank or an application under the Bank Merger Act to merge banks or effect a purchase of assets and assumption of deposits and other liabilities, the applicable federal banking 

regulator must consider the anti-money laundering compliance record of both the applicant and the target. In addition, under the USA PATRIOT Act, financial institutions are required to take steps to monitor their correspondent banking and private banking relationships as well as, if applicable, their relationships with &#8220;shell banks.&#8221; 

Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;) 

The U.S. has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These sanctions, which are administered by the U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;), take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on &#8220;U.S. persons&#8221; engaging in financial or other transactions relating to a sanctioned country or with certain designated persons and entities; (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons); and (iii) restrictions on transactions with or involving certain persons or entities. Blocked assets (for example, property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the Company. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company did not have any transactions with sanctioned countries, nationals, and others. 

Regulation of Other Activities 

Volcker Rule Restrictions on Proprietary Trading and Sponsorship of Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds 

The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banking organizations, such as the Company and the Banks, from engaging in proprietary trading and from sponsoring and investing in hedge funds and private equity funds, except as permitted under certain limited circumstances, in a provision commonly referred to as the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; Under the Dodd-Frank Act, proprietary trading generally means trading by a banking entity or its affiliate for its trading account. Hedge funds and private equity funds are described by the Dodd-Frank Act as funds that would be registered under the Investment Company Act but for certain enumerated exemptions. The Volcker Rule restrictions apply to the Company, the Banks and all of their subsidiaries and affiliates. 

