 Item 1. BUSINESS Salisbury Bancorp, Inc.

Salisbury Bancorp, Inc., a Connecticut corporation, formed in 1998, is the bank holding company for Salisbury Bank and Trust Company (the &#34;Bank&#34;), a Connecticut-chartered and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#34;FDIC&#34;) insured commercial bank headquartered in Lakeville, Connecticut. Salisbury&#8217;s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol &#8220;SAL.&#8221; Salisbury's principal business consists of its operation and control of the business of the Bank.

The Bank, formed in 1848, currently provides commercial banking, consumer financing, retail banking and trust and wealth advisory services through a network of thirteen banking offices and nine ATMs located in: Litchfield County, Connecticut; Dutchess and Orange Counties, New York; and Berkshire County, Massachusetts and through its internet website (salisburybank.com).

Abbreviations Used Herein

Bank Salisbury Bank and Trust Company &#160; FRA Federal Reserve Act BHC Bank Holding Company &#160; FRB Federal Reserve Board BHCA Bank Holding Company Act &#160; GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America BOLI Bank Owned Life Insurance &#160; GLBA Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau &#160; LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate CPP Capital Purchase Program &#160; OREO Other Real Estate Owned CRA Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 &#160; OTTI Other Than Temporarily Impaired CTDOB State of Connecticut Department of Banking &#160; PIC Passive Investment Company Dodd-

Frank Act

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act &#160; Salisbury Salisbury Bancorp, Inc. and Subsidiary ESOP Employee Stock Ownership Plan &#160; SBLF Small Business Lending Fund FACT Act Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act &#160; SEC Securities and Exchange Commission FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board &#160; SOX Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation &#160; TARP Troubled Asset Relief Program FHLBB Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston &#160; Treasury United States Department of the Treasury Lending Activities

General

The Bank originates commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, residential and commercial construction loans, residential real estate loans collateralized by one-to-four family residences, home equity lines of credit and fixed rate loans and other consumer loans predominately in Connecticut&#8217;s Litchfield County, New York&#8217;s Dutchess, Orange and Ulster Counties and Massachusetts&#8217; Berkshire County in towns proximate to the Bank&#8217;s thirteen full service offices.

&#160; 

The majority of the Bank&#8217;s loans as of December 31, 2015, including some loans classified as commercial loans, were secured by real estate. Interest rates charged on loans are affected principally by the Bank&#8217;s current asset/liability strategy, the demand for such loans, the cost and supply of money available for lending purposes and the rates offered by competitors. These factors are, in turn, affected by general economic and credit conditions, monetary policies of the federal government, including the FRB, federal and state tax policies and budgetary matters. Loan portfolios acquired in business combinations include commercial loans acquired with Riverside Bank. 

Residential Real Estate Loans 

A principal lending activity of the Bank is to originate loans secured by first mortgages on one-to-four family residences. The Bank typically originates residential real estate loans through employees who are commissioned licensed mortgage originators (in accordance with the mortgage lending compensation guidelines issued by the CFPB). The Bank originates both fixed rate and adjustable rate mortgages.

The Bank currently sells the majority of the fixed rate 30 year residential mortgage loans it originates to the FHLBB under the Mortgage Partnership Finance program. The Bank typically retains loan servicing. The Bank retains some fixed rate residential mortgage loans and those loans originated under its first time home owner program.

The retention of adjustable rate residential mortgage loans in the portfolio and the sale of longer term, fixed rate residential mortgage loans helps reduce the Bank&#8217;s exposure to interest rate risk. However, adjustable rate mortgages generally pose credit risks different from the credit risks inherent in fixed rate loans primarily because as interest rates rise, the underlying debt service payments of the borrowers rise, thereby increasing the potential for default. Management believes that these risks, which have not had a material adverse effect on the Bank to date, generally are less onerous than the interest rate risks associated with holding long-term fixed rate loans in the loan portfolio.

Commercial Real Estate Loans 

The Bank makes commercial real estate loans for the purpose of allowing borrowers to acquire, develop, construct, improve or refinance commercial real estate where the property is the primary collateral securing the loan, and the income generated from the property is the primary repayment source. Office buildings, light industrial, retail facilities or multi-family income properties, normally collateralize commercial real estate loans. Among the reasons for management&#8217;s continued emphasis on commercial real estate lending is the desire to invest in assets with yields which are generally higher than yields on one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, and are more sensitive to changes in interest rates. These loans typically have terms/amortizations of up to ten and twenty five years, respectively, and interest rates, which adjust over periods of three to ten years, based on one of various rate indices.

Commercial real estate lending generally poses a greater credit risk than residential mortgage lending to owner-occupants. The repayment of commercial real estate loans depends on the business and financial condition of the borrower. Economic events and changes in government regulations, which the Bank and its borrowers do not control, could have an adverse impact on the cash flows generated by properties securing commercial real estate loans and on the market value of such properties.

Construction Loans 

The Bank originates both residential and commercial construction loans. Typically, loans are made to owner-borrowers who will occupy the properties as either their primary or secondary residence and to licensed and experienced developers for the construction of single-family homes or commercial properties.

The proceeds of commercial construction loans are disbursed in stages. Bank officers, appraisers and/or independent engineers inspect each project&#8217;s progress before additional funds are disbursed to verify that borrowers have completed project phases.

Residential construction loans to owner-borrowers generally convert to a fully amortizing long-term mortgage loan upon completion of construction. The typical construction phase is generally twelve months.

Construction lending, particularly commercial construction lending, poses greater credit risk than mortgage lending to owner-occupants. The repayment of commercial construction loans depends on the business, the financial condition of the borrower, and on the economic viability of the project financed. Economic events and changes in government regulations, which the Bank and its borrowers do not control, could have an adverse impact on the value of properties securing construction loans and on the borrower&#8217;s ability to complete projects financed and sell them for amounts anticipated at the time the projects commenced.

&#160; 

Commercial Loans 

Commercial loans are generally made on a secured basis and are primarily collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable and/or leases. Commercial loans primarily provide working capital, equipment financing, financing for leasehold improvements and financing for expansion. The Bank offers both term and revolving commercial loans. Term loans have either fixed or adjustable rates of interest and, generally, terms of between two and seven years. Term loans generally amortize during their life, although some loans require a balloon payment at maturity if the amortization exceeds seven years. Revolving commercial lines of credit typically are renewable annually and have a floating rate of interest normally indexed to the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal.

Commercial lending generally poses a higher degree of credit risk than real estate lending. Repayment of both secured and unsecured commercial loans depends substantially on the success of the borrower&#8217;s underlying business, financial condition and cash flows. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is primarily dependent upon the success of the borrower&#8217;s business.

Secured commercial loans are generally collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable and leases. Compared to real estate, such collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is more difficult to validate, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed.

Consumer Loans 

The Bank originates various types of consumer loans, including home equity loans and lines of credit, auto and personal installment loans. Home equity loans and lines of credit are generally secured by second mortgages placed on one-to-four family owner-occupied properties. Home equity loans have fixed interest rates, while home equity lines of credit adjust based on the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal. Consumer loans are originated through the branch network with the exception of Home Equity Lines of Credit, which are originated by licensed Mortgage Lending Originator staff.

Credit Risk Management and Asset Quality

One of the Bank&#8217;s key objectives is to maintain a high level of asset quality. The Bank utilizes the following general practices to manage credit risk: ensuring compliance with prudent written policies; limiting the amount of credit that individual lenders may extend; establishing a process for credit approval accountability; careful initial underwriting and analysis of borrower, transaction, market and collateral risks; ongoing servicing of individual loans and lending relationships; continuous monitoring and risk rating of the portfolio, market dynamics and the economy; and periodically reevaluating the Bank&#8217;s strategy and overall exposure as economic, market and other relevant conditions change. 

Credit Administration is responsible for determining loan loss reserve adequacy and preparing monthly and quarterly reports regarding the credit quality of the loan portfolio, which are submitted to the Loan Committee to ensure compliance with the credit policy, and managing non-performing and classified assets as well as oversight of all collection activity. On a quarterly basis, the Loan Committee reviews commercial and commercial real estate loans that are risk rated as &#8220;Special Mention&#8221; or worse, focusing on the current status and strategies to improve the credit. 

The Bank&#8217;s loan review activities are performed by an independent third party loan review firm that evaluates the creditworthiness of borrowers and the appropriateness of the Bank&#8217;s risk rating classifications. The firm&#8217;s findings are reported to Credit Administration, Senior Management, and the Board level Loan and Audit Committees. 

Trust and Wealth Advisory Services

The Bank provides a range of fiduciary and trust services including general investment management, wealth advisory services to individuals, families and institutions, and estate administration and settlement services.

Securities

Salisbury&#8217;s securities portfolio is structured to diversify the earnings, assets and risk structure of Salisbury, provide liquidity consistent with both projected and potential needs, collateralize certain types of deposits, assist with maintaining a satisfactory net interest margin and comply with regulatory capital and liquidity requirements. Types of securities in the portfolio generally include U.S. Government and Agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and tax exempt municipal bonds.

Sources of Funds

The Bank uses deposits, proceeds from loan and security maturities, repayments and sales, and borrowings to fund lending, investing and general operations. Deposits represent the Bank&#8217;s primary source of funds.

&#160; 

Deposits 

The Bank offers a variety of deposit accounts with a range of interest rates and other terms, which are designed to meet customer financial needs. Retail and commercial deposits are primarily received through the Bank&#8217;s banking offices. Additional depositor related services provided to customers include Landlord/Tenant Lease Security Accounts and Services, Merchant Services, Payroll Services, Cash Management (Remote Deposit Capture, ACH Origination, Wire Transfers and Positive Pay), ATM, Bank-by-Phone, Internet Banking, Internet Bill Pay, Person to Person Payments, Bank to Bank Transfers, Mobile Banking with remote deposit, and Online Financial Management with Account Aggregation Services. 

The FDIC provides separate insurance coverage of $250,000 per depositor for each account ownership category. Deposit flows are significantly influenced by economic conditions, the general level of interest rates and the relative attractiveness of competing deposit and investment alternatives. When determining deposit pricing, the Bank considers strategic objectives, competitive market rates, deposit flows, funding commitments and investment alternatives, FHLBB advance rates and rates on other sources of funds.

National, regional and local economic and credit conditions, changes in competitor money market, savings and time deposit rates, prevailing market interest rates and competing investment alternatives all have a significant impact on the level of the Bank&#8217;s deposits. Deposit generation is a key focus for the Bank as a source of liquidity and to fund continuing asset growth. Competition for deposits has been, and is expected to, remain strong. 

Borrowings 

The Bank is a member of the FHLBB, which provides credit facilities for regulated, federally insured depository institutions and certain other home financing institutions. Members of the FHLBB are required to own capital stock in the FHLBB and are authorized to apply for advances on the security of their FHLBB stock and certain home mortgages and other assets (principally securities, which are obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States Government or its agencies) provided certain creditworthiness standards have been met. Under its current credit policies, the FHLBB limits advances based on a member&#8217;s assets, total borrowings and net worth. Long-term and short-term FHLBB advances may be utilized as a source of funding to meet liquidity and planning needs when the cost of these funds is favorable as compared to deposits or alternate funding sources. Long-Term Debt increased $10 million at December 31, 2015 as a result of the issuance of subordinated debentures during 2015; See &#8220;Deposits and Borrowings&#8221; below.

Additional funding sources are available through securities sold under agreements to repurchase and the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.

Acquisitions 

On June 6, 2014, the Bank completed its purchase and assumption of the Sharon, Connecticut branch of Union Savings Bank, which included deposits of approximately $18 million at a premium of 2.32%. Operations of the Bank&#8217;s existing Sharon, Connecticut branch were consolidated into this new location. On December 5, 2014, the Bank completed its acquisition of Riverside Bank of Poughkeepsie, New York, adding four new offices and a strong commercial loan focus to Salisbury&#8217;s New York market presence. Such transaction was valued at approximately $27 million. In the merger, Riverside Bank shareholders received 1.35 shares of Salisbury Bancorp, Inc. common stock for each share of Riverside Bank common stock. 

Subsidiaries

Salisbury has one wholly-owned subsidiary, Salisbury Bank and Trust Company. The Bank has two wholly-owned subsidiaries, SBT Mortgage Service Corporation and S.B.T. Realty, Inc. SBT Mortgage Service Corporation is a passive investment company (&#34;PIC&#34;) that holds loans collateralized by real estate originated or purchased by the Bank. Income of the PIC and its dividends to Salisbury are exempt from the Connecticut Corporate Business Tax. S.B.T. Realty, Inc. was formed to hold New York state real estate and is presently inactive.

Employees

At December 31, 2015, the Bank had 158 full-time employees and 30 part-time employees. The employees are not represented by a collective bargaining group. The Bank maintains a comprehensive employee benefit program providing, among other benefits, group medical and dental insurance, life insurance, disability insurance, an ESOP and an employee 401(k) plan. Management considers relations with its employees to be good.

Market Area

Salisbury and the Bank are headquartered in Lakeville, Connecticut, which is located in the northwestern quadrant of Connecticut&#8217;s Litchfield County. The Bank has a total of thirteen banking offices, four of which are located in Connecticut's Litchfield County; three of which are located in Massachusetts&#8217; Berkshire County; five of which are located in New York&#8217;s Dutchess County, and one of which is located in New York&#8217;s Orange County. The Bank&#8217;s primary deposit gathering and lending area consists of the communities and surrounding towns that are served by its branch network in these counties. The Bank also has deposit, lending and trust relationships outside of these areas.

&#160; 

Competition

The Bank faces strong competition in attracting and retaining deposits and in making loans. The primary factors in competing for deposits are interest rates, personalized services, the quality and range of financial services, convenience of office locations, automated services and office hours. Its most direct competition for deposits and loans has come from other commercial banks, savings institutions and credit unions located in its market area. Competition for deposits also comes from mutual funds and other investment alternatives, which offer a range of deposit and deposit-like products. Although the Bank expects this continuing competition to have an effect upon the cost of funds, it does not anticipate any substantial adverse effect on maintaining the current deposit base. The Bank is competitive within its market area in the various deposit products it offers to depositors. Due to this fact, management believes the Bank has the ability to maintain its deposit base.

The Bank's competition for real estate loans comes primarily from mortgage banking companies, savings banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, and other institutional lenders. The primary factors in competing for loans are interest rates, loan origination fees, the quality and range of lending services and personalized service. Factors that affect competition include, among others, the general availability of funds and credit, general and local economic conditions, current interest rate levels and volatility in the mortgage markets.

The banking industry is also experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Technological advances are likely to increase competition by enabling more companies to provide cost effective products and services.

Regulation and Supervision

General 

Salisbury is required to file reports and otherwise comply with the rules and regulations of the FRB, the FDIC, the SEC and NASDAQ as well as the state banking supervisory authorities in Connecticut, New York and Massachusetts.

The Bank is subject to extensive regulation by the CTDOB, as its chartering agency, and by the FDIC, as its deposit insurer. The Bank is required to file reports with, and is periodically examined by, the FDIC and the CTDOB concerning its activities and financial condition. It must obtain regulatory approvals prior to entering into certain transactions, such as mergers.

The following discussion of the laws, regulations and policies material to the operations of Salisbury and the Bank is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such laws, regulations and policies. Such statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress and the Connecticut, New York and Massachusetts State Legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. Any change in such laws, regulations, or policies could have a material adverse impact on Salisbury or the Bank.

Bank Holding Company Regulation 

SEC and NASDAQ 

Salisbury is subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC and is required to comply with the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as administered by the SEC. Salisbury&#8217;s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the trading symbol &#8220;SAL&#8221; and, accordingly, Salisbury is also subject to the rules of NASDAQ for listed companies.

Federal Reserve Board Regulation 

Salisbury is a registered bank holding company under the BHCA and is subject to comprehensive regulation and regular examinations by the FRB. The FRB also has extensive enforcement authority over bank holding companies, including, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders and to require that a holding company divest subsidiaries (including its bank subsidiaries). In general, enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of law and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices.

Under FRB policy, a bank holding company must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary bank. Under this policy, Salisbury is expected to commit resources to support the Bank. The FRB may require a holding company to contribute additional capital to an undercapitalized subsidiary bank.

Bank holding companies must obtain FRB approval before: (i) acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of another bank or bank holding company; (ii) acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of another bank or bank holding company; or (iii) merging or consolidating with another bank holding company.

&#160; 

The BHCA also prohibits a bank holding company, with certain exceptions, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any company, which is not a bank or bank holding company, or from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or providing services for its subsidiaries. The principal exceptions to these prohibitions involve certain non-bank activities, which, by statute or by FRB regulation or order, have been identified as activities closely related to the business of banking or managing or controlling banks. The list of activities permitted by the FRB includes, among other things: (i) operating a savings institution, mortgage company, finance company, credit card company or factoring company; (ii) performing certain data processing operations; (iii) providing certain investment and financial advice; (iv) underwriting and acting as an insurance agent for certain types of credit-related insurance; (v) leasing property on a full-payout, non-operating basis; (vi) selling money orders; (vii) real estate and personal property appraising; (viii) providing tax planning and preparation services; (ix) financing and investing in certain community development activities; and (x) subject to certain limitations, providing securities brokerage services for customers.

Connecticut Bank Holding Company Regulation 

Salisbury is a Connecticut corporation and is also subject to the Connecticut Business Corporation Act and Connecticut banking law applicable to Connecticut bank holding companies. Under Connecticut banking law, no person may acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of any class of voting securities of a Connecticut-chartered bank, or any bank holding company of such a bank, without prior notification to, and lack of disapproval by, the CTDOB. The CTDOB will disapprove the acquisition if the bank or holding company to be acquired has been in existence for less than five years, unless the CTDOB waives this five-year restriction, or if the acquisition would result in the acquirer controlling 30% or more of the total amount of deposits in insured depository institutions in Connecticut. Similar restrictions apply to any person who holds in excess of 10% of any such class and desires to increase its holdings to 25% or more of such class. 

Dividends

Salisbury&#8217;s dividends to shareholders are substantially dependent upon Salisbury&#8217;s receipt of dividends from the Bank. The FRB has issued a policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, which expresses the FRB&#8217;s view that a bank holding company should be a &#8220;source of strength&#8221; to its bank subsidiary and should pay cash dividends only to the extent that the holding company&#8217;s net income for the past year is sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the holding company&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The FRB also indicated its view that, generally, it would be inappropriate for a company experiencing serious financial problems to borrow funds to pay dividends. Furthermore, the FRB may prohibit a bank holding company from paying any dividends if the holding company&#8217;s bank subsidiary is classified as &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; or if the dividend would violate applicable law or would be an unsafe or unsound banking practice.

Financial Modernization

GLBA permits greater affiliation among banks, securities firms, insurance companies, and other companies under a type of financial services company known as a &#8220;financial holding company.&#8221; A financial holding company essentially is a bank holding company with expanded powers. Financial holding companies are authorized by statute to engage in a number of financial activities previously impermissible for bank holding companies, including securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; and merchant banking activities. The act also permits the FRB and the Treasury to authorize additional activities for financial holding companies if they are &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; or &#8220;incidental&#8221; to financial activities. A bank holding company may become a financial holding company if each of its subsidiary banks is &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed&#8221; as defined in the FRB&#8217;s Regulation Y, and has at least a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; Community Reinvestment Act rating. A financial holding company must provide notice to the FRB within 30 days after commencing activities previously determined to be permissible by statute or by the FRB and the Treasury. Salisbury is a registered financial holding company.

All financial institutions are required to establish policies and procedures with respect to the ability of the Bank to share nonpublic customer data with nonaffiliated parties and to protect customer data from unauthorized access. The Bank has developed policies and procedures, and believes it is in compliance with all privacy, information sharing, and notification provisions of GLBA and the FACT Act.

Connecticut Banking Laws and Supervision 

The Bank is a state-chartered commercial bank under Connecticut law and as such is subject to regulation and examination by the CTDOB. The CTDOB regulates commercial banks, among other financial institutions, for compliance with the laws and regulations of the States of Connecticut, New York and Massachusetts, as well as the appropriate rules and regulations of federal agencies. The approval of the CTDOB is required for, among other things, the establishment of branch offices and business combination transactions. The CTDOB conducts periodic examinations of Connecticut-chartered banks. The FDIC also regulates many of the areas regulated by the CTDOB, and federal law may limit some of the authority provided to Connecticut-chartered banks by Connecticut law.

Lending Activities

Connecticut banking laws grant commercial banks broad lending authority. With certain limited exceptions, total secured and unsecured loans made to any one obligor generally may not exceed 15% of the Bank&#8217;s equity capital and reserves for loan and lease losses. However, if the loan is fully secured, such limitations generally may be increased by an additional 10%.

&#160; 

Dividends

The Bank may pay cash dividends out of its net profits. For purposes of this restriction, &#8220;net profits&#8221; represents the remainder of all earnings from current operations. Further, the total amount of all dividends declared by the Bank in any year may not exceed the sum of its net profits for the year in question combined with its retained net profits from the preceding two years, unless the CTDOB approves the larger dividend. Federal law also prevents the Bank from paying dividends or making other capital distributions that would cause it to become &#8220;undercapitalized.&#8221; The FDIC may also limit a bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends based upon safety and soundness considerations.

Powers

Connecticut law permits Connecticut banks to sell insurance and fixed and variable-rate annuities if licensed to do so by the Connecticut Insurance Department. With the prior approval of the CTDOB, Connecticut banks are also authorized to engage in a broad range of activities related to the business of banking, or that are financial in nature or that are permitted under the BHCA, other federal statutes, or the regulations promulgated pursuant to these statutes. Connecticut banks generally are also authorized to engage in any activity permitted for a federal bank or upon filing prior written notice of its intention to engage in such activity with the CTDOB, unless the CTDOB disapproves the activity.

Assessments

Connecticut banks are required to pay assessments to the CTDOB based upon a bank&#8217;s asset size to fund the CTDOB&#8217;s operations. The assessments are generally made annually.

Enforcement Authority

Under Connecticut law, the CTDOB has extensive enforcement authority over Connecticut banks and, under certain circumstances, affiliated parties, insiders, and agents. The CTDOB&#8217;s enforcement authority includes cease and desist orders, fines, receivership, conservatorship, removal of officers and directors, emergency closures, dissolution and liquidation.

New York and Massachusetts Banking Laws and Supervision 

The Bank conducts activities and operates branch offices in New York and Massachusetts as well as Connecticut. Generally, with respect to its business in New York and Massachusetts, the Bank may conduct any activity that is authorized under Connecticut law that is permissible for either New York or Massachusetts state banks or for an out-of-state national bank, at its New York and Massachusetts branch offices, respectively. The New York State Superintendent of Banks may exercise regulatory authority with respect to the Bank&#8217;s New York branch offices. The Bank is subject to certain rules related to community reinvestment, consumer protection, fair lending, establishment of intra-state branches and the conduct of banking activities with respect to its branches located in New York State. The Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks may exercise similar authority, and the Bank is subject to similar rules under Massachusetts Banking Law with respect to the Bank&#8217;s Massachusetts branch offices. Federal and state laws authorize the interstate merger of banks. Among other things, banks may establish new branches on an interstate basis provided that such action is specifically authorized by the law of the host state.

Federal Regulations 

Capital Requirements

Under FDIC regulations, federally insured state-chartered banks, such as the Bank, that are not members of the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;state non-member banks&#8221;) are required to comply with minimum leverage capital requirements. A common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets ratio of 6.0%, a total capital to risk-based assets of 8.0%, and a 4.0% Tier 1 capital to total assets leverage ratio. The existing capital requirements were effective January 1, 2015 and are the result of a final rule implementing regulatory amendments based on recommendations of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. Common equity Tier 1 capital is generally defined as common stockholders&#8217; equity and retained earnings. Tier 1 capital is generally defined as common equity Tier 1 and additional Tier 1 capital. Additional Tier 1 capital includes certain noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries. Total capital includes Tier 1 capital (common equity Tier 1 capital plus additional Tier 1 capital) and Tier 2 capital. Tier 2 capital is comprised of capital instruments and related surplus, meeting specified requirements, and may include cumulative preferred stock and long-term perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible securities, intermediate preferred stock and subordinated debt. Also included in Tier 2 capital is the allowance for loan and lease losses limited to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and, for institutions that have exercised an opt-out election regarding the treatment of accumulated other comprehensive income (&#8220;AOCI&#8221;), up to 45% of net unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities with readily determinable fair market values. The Bank chose the opt-out election. Institutions that have not exercised the AOCI opt-out have AOCI incorporated into common equity Tier 1 capital (including unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities). Calculation of all types of regulatory capital is subject to deductions and adjustments specified in the regulations.

&#160; 

The FDIC regulations require state non-member banks to maintain certain levels of regulatory capital in relation to regulatory risk-weighted assets. The ratio of regulatory capital to regulatory risk-weighted assets is referred to as a bank&#8217;s &#8220;risk-based capital ratio.&#8221; Risk-based capital ratios are determined by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet items (including recourse obligations, direct credit substitutes and residual interests) to risk-weighted categories ranging from 0% to 1,250%, with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as representing greater risk.

In addition to establishing the minimum regulatory capital requirements, the regulations limit capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to management if the institution does not hold a &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221; consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted asset above the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning January 1, 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and increasing each year until fully implemented at 2.5% on January 1, 2019.

In assessing an institution&#8217;s capital adequacy, the FDIC takes into consideration not only these numeric factors, but qualitative factors as well, and has the authority to establish higher capital requirements for individual institutions where deemed necessary. As a bank holding company, the Company is also subject to regulatory capital requirements, as described in a subsequent section.

As a bank holding company, Salisbury is subject to FRB capital adequacy guidelines for bank holding companies similar to those of the FDIC for state-chartered banks.

In July 2013, the FRB approved the final rules implementing the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision&#8217;s capital guidelines for bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries. On July 9, 2013, the FDIC also approved, as an interim final rule, the regulatory capital requirements for U.S. banks, following the actions of the FRB. On April 8, 2014, the FDIC adopted as final its interim final rule, which is identical in substance to the final rules issued by the FRB in July 2013. Under the final rules, minimum requirements will increase for both the quantity and quality of capital held by the Bank and Company. The rules include a new common equity Tier 1 capital risk-weighted assets minimum ratio of 4.5%, raise the minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets from 4.0% to 6.0%, require a minimum ratio of Total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8.0%, and require a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%. A new capital conservation buffer, comprised of common equity Tier 1 capital, is also established above the regulatory minimum capital requirements. This capital conservation buffer is being phased in effective January 1, 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and increase each subsequent year by an additional 0.625% until reaching its final level of 2.5% on January 1, 2019. Strict eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments were also implemented under the final rules.

The phase-in period for the final rules began for Salisbury on January 1, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the Company and the Bank met each of their capital requirements and the most recent notification from the FDIC categorized the Bank as &#8220;well-capitalized.&#8221; There are no conditions or events since that notification that management believes have changed the Bank&#8217;s category.

Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action

Federal law requires, among other things, that federal bank regulatory authorities take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to banks that do not meet minimum capital requirements. For these purposes, the law establishes five capital categories:

&#8226; Well capitalized &#8211; at least 5% leverage capital, 6.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital, 8% Tier 1 risk based capital and 10% total risk based capital. &#8226; Adequately capitalized &#8211; at least 4% leverage capital, 4.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital, 6% Tier 1 risk based capital and 8% total risk based capital. &#8226; Undercapitalized &#8211; less than 4% leverage capital, 4.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital, 6% Tier 1 risk based capital and 8% total risk based capital. &#8220;Undercapitalized&#8221; banks must adhere to growth, capital distribution (including dividend) and other limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. A bank&#8217;s compliance with such a plan is required to be guaranteed by any company that controls the undercapitalized institution in an amount equal to the lesser of 5% of the institution&#8217;s total assets when deemed undercapitalized or the amount necessary to achieve the status of adequately capitalized. &#8226; Significantly undercapitalized &#8211; less than 3% leverage capital, 3% Common Equity Tier 1 capital, 4% Tier 1 risk based capital and 6% total risk based capital. &#8220;Significantly undercapitalized&#8221; banks must comply with one or more of a number of additional restrictions, including but not limited to an order by the FDIC to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets, cease receipt of deposits from correspondent banks or dismiss directors or officers, and restrictions on interest rates paid on deposits, compensation of executive officers and capital distributions by the parent holding company. &#8226; Critically undercapitalized &#8211; less than 2% tangible capital. &#8220;Critically undercapitalized&#8221; institutions are subject to additional measures including, subject to a narrow exception, the appointment of a receiver or conservator within 270 days after it obtains such status. 

&#160; 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Under federal law, transactions between depository institutions and their affiliates are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the FRA. In a holding company structure, at a minimum, the parent holding company of a bank, and any companies that are controlled by such parent holding company are deemed affiliates of its subsidiary bank. Generally, Sections 23A and 23B are intended to protect insured depository institutions from suffering losses arising from transactions with non-insured affiliates, by limiting the extent to which a bank or its subsidiaries may engage in covered transactions with any one affiliate and with all affiliates of the bank in the aggregate, and by requiring that such transactions be on terms that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices.

The FRA and Regulation O impose restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers, and principal shareholders (&#8220;insiders&#8221;). Loans to insiders and their related interests may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such persons and affiliated entities, the institution&#8217;s total capital and surplus. Loans to insiders above specified amounts must receive the prior approval of the board of directors and must be made on terms substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons. The FRA imposes additional limitations on loans to executive officers.

Enforcement

The FDIC has extensive enforcement authority over insured banks, including the Bank. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, issue cease and desist orders and remove directors and officers. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated in response to violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices.

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The FDIC, together with the other federal bank regulatory agencies, prescribe standards of safety and soundness by regulations or guidelines, relating generally to operations and management, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, stock valuation and compensation. The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted a set of guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards, which establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, the agencies to order an institution that has been given notice that it is not satisfying the safety and soundness guidelines to submit a compliance plan. The federal bank regulatory agencies have also adopted guidelines for asset quality and earning standards. As a state-chartered bank, the Bank is also subject to state statutes, regulations and guidelines relating to safety and soundness, in addition to the federal requirements.

Insurance of Deposit Accounts 

The Bank&#8217;s deposit accounts are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) of the FDIC up to applicable legal limits (generally, $250,000 per depositor for each account ownership category and $250,000 for certain retirement plan accounts) and are subject to deposit insurance assessments. The FDIC insurance coverage limit applies per depositor, per insured depository institution for each account ownership category. 

The FDIC utilizes a risk-based assessment system that imposes insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account a bank&#8217;s capital level and supervisory rating. The FDIC assigns an institution to one of the following capital categories based on the institution&#8217;s financial condition consisting of (1) well capitalized, (2) adequately capitalized or (3) undercapitalized, and one of three supervisory subcategories within each capital group. The supervisory subgroup to which an institution is assigned is based on a supervisory evaluation provided to the FDIC by the institution&#8217;s primary federal regulator and information which the FDIC determines to be relevant to the institution&#8217;s financial condition and the risk posed to the deposit insurance funds. An institution&#8217;s assessment rate depends on the capital category and supervisory category to which it is assigned. 

FDIC insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC to fund the DIF. The Bank&#8217;s current annual assessment rate is approximately 8.6 basis points of total assets. Additionally, FDIC insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC to fund interest payments on bonds issued by The Financing Corporation, an agency of the federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. The assessment rate is adjusted quarterly to reflect changes in the assessment bases of the fund based on quarterly Call Report submissions. From time to time, the FDIC may impose a supplemental special assessment in addition to other special assessments and regular premium rates to replenish the deposit insurance funds during periods of economic difficulty. The amount of an emergency special assessment imposed on a bank will be determined by the FDIC if such amount is necessary to provide sufficient assessment income to repay amounts borrowed from the Treasury; to provide sufficient assessment income to repay obligations issued to and other amounts borrowed from insured depository institutions; or for any other purpose the FDIC may deem necessary.

&#160; 

The FDIC may terminate insurance of deposits, after notice and a hearing, if it finds that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. The management of the Bank does not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) 

The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, significantly changed the bank regulatory landscape and has impacted lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act revised the statutory authorities governing the FDIC&#8217;s management of the DIF. The Dodd-Frank Act granted the FDIC new DIF management tools: maintaining a positive fund balance even during a banking crisis and maintaining moderate, steady assessment rates throughout economic and credit cycles.

Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act: (1) raised the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (DRR), which the FDIC must set each year, to 1.35% (from the former minimum of 1.15%) and removed the upper limit on the DRR (which was formerly capped at 1.5%) and therefore on the size of the DIF; (2) required that the DIF reserve ratio reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020 (rather than 1.15% by the end of 2016, as formerly required); (3) required that, in setting assessments, the FDIC offset the effect of requiring that the reserve ratio reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020 (rather than 1.15% by the end of 2016) on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion; (4) eliminated the requirement that the FDIC provide dividends from the Fund when the reserve ratio is between 1.35% and 1.50%; and (5) continued the FDIC&#8217;s authority to declare dividends when the reserve ratio at the end of a calendar year is at least 1.50%, but granted the FDIC sole discretion in determining whether to suspend or limit the declaration or payment of dividends.

The Dodd-Frank Act also required that the FDIC amend its regulations to redefine the assessment base used for calculating deposit insurance assessments. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the assessment base must, with some possible exceptions, equal average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity.

The FDIC amended 12 CFR 327 to implement revisions to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act made by the Dodd-Frank Act by modifying the definition of an institution&#8217;s deposit insurance assessment base; to change the assessment rate adjustments; to revise the deposit insurance assessment rate schedules in light of the new assessment base and altered adjustments; to implement the Dodd-Frank Act&#8217;s dividend provisions; to revise the large insured depository institution assessment system to better differentiate for risk and better take into account losses from large institution failures that the FDIC may incur; and to make technical and other changes to the FDIC's assessment rules. The FDIC Board of Directors adopted the final rule, which redefined the deposit insurance assessment base as required by the Dodd-Frank Act; made changes to assessment rates; implemented the Dodd-Frank Act&#8217;s DIF dividend provisions; and revised the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions, generally, those institutions with at least $10 billion in total assets. Nearly all institutions with assets less than $10 billion, including the Bank, have benefited from a reduction in their assessments as a result of this final rule.

The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give shareholders a non-binding vote of executive compensation at least every three (3) years. The legislation also authorizes the SEC to prohibit broker discretion on any voting on election of directors, executive compensation matters, and any other significant matter.

The Dodd-Frank Act also adopts various mortgage lending and predatory lending provisions and requires loan originators to retain 5% of any loan sold and securitized, unless it is a &#8220;qualified residential mortgage,&#8221; which includes standard 30 and 15-year fixed rate loans.

Consumer Protection and the Financial Protection Bureau 

The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;). As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, jurisdiction for all existing consumer protection laws and regulations has been transferred to the CFPB. In addition, the CFPB is granted authority to promulgate new consumer protection regulations for banks and nonbank financial firms offering consumer financial services or products to ensure that consumers are protected from &#8220;unfair, deceptive, or abusive&#8221; acts or practices.

Salisbury is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, various state law counterparts, and the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, which constitutes part of the Dodd-Frank Act and establishes the CFPB, as described above.

&#160; 

In 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule implementing the ability-to-repay and qualified mortgage (&#8220;QM&#8221;) provisions of the Truth in Lending Act, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act (the &#8220;QM Rule&#8221;). The ability-to-repay provision requires creditors to make reasonable, good faith determinations that borrowers are able to repay their mortgages before extending the credit based on a number of factors and consideration of financial information about the borrower from reasonably reliable third-party documents. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and the QM Rule, loans meeting the definition of &#8220;qualified mortgage&#8221; are entitled to a presumption that the lender satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. The presumption is a conclusive presumption/safe harbor for prime loans meeting the QM requirements and a rebuttable presumption for higher-priced/subprime loans meeting the QM requirements. The definition of a &#8220;qualified mortgage&#8221; incorporates the statutory requirements, such as not allowing negative amortization or terms longer than 30 years. The QM Rule also adds an explicit maximum 43% debt-to-income ratio for borrowers if the loan is to meet the QM definition.

Federal Reserve System 

All depository institutions must hold a percentage of certain types of deposits as reserves. Reserve requirements currently are assessed on the depository institution's net transaction accounts (mostly checking accounts). Depository institutions must also regularly submit deposit reports of their deposits and other reservable liabilities.

For net transaction accounts in 2015, the first $14.5 million (which may be adjusted by the FRB) was exempt from reserve requirements. A 3% reserve ratio was assessed on net transaction accounts over $14.5 million up to and including $103.6 million (which may be adjusted by the FRB). A 10% reserve ratio was assessed on net transaction accounts in excess of $103.6 million (which may be adjusted by the FRB). The Bank is in compliance with these requirements.

Federal Home Loan Bank System 

The Bank is a member of the Boston region of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which consists of 11 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The FHLBB provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. Member institutions are required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLBB calculated periodically based primarily on its level of borrowings from the FHLBB. The Bank was in compliance with this requirement. At December 31, 2015, the Bank had FHLBB stock of $3.2 million and FHLBB advances of $27.0 million.

No market exists for shares of the FHLBB and, therefore, they are carried at par value. FHLBB stock may be redeemed at par value five years following termination of FHLBB membership, subject to limitations which may be imposed by the FHLBB or its regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Board, to maintain capital adequacy of the FHLBB. While the Bank currently has no intentions to terminate its FHLBB membership, the ability to redeem its investment in FHLBB stock would be subject to the conditions imposed by the FHLBB. 

Small Business Lending Fund 

Treasury&#8217;s SBLF program is a $30 billion fund established under the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 to encourage lending to small businesses by providing Tier 1 capital to qualified community banks with assets of less than $10 billion.

Salisbury elected to participate in Treasury&#8217;s SBLF program and on August 25, 2011, Salisbury sold to the Secretary of the Treasury $16 million of its Series B Preferred Stock under the SBLF program, and simultaneously repurchased all of its Series A Preferred Stock sold to the Treasury in 2009 under the Capital Purchase Program, a part of TARP. All of the proceeds from the sale of its Series B Preferred Stock were treated as Tier 1 Capital for regulatory purposes.

The Series B Preferred Stock paid noncumulative dividends. The dividend rate on the Series B Preferred Stock for the initial ten quarterly dividend periods, commencing with the period ended September 30, 2011 and ending with the period ended December 31, 2013, was determined each quarter based on the increase in the Bank&#8217;s Qualified Small Business Lending over a baseline amount. The dividend rate for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2015 was 1.0%. For the eleventh quarterly dividend payment through four and one-half years after its issuance, the dividend rate on the Series B Preferred Stock would have been 1.0%. Salisbury redeemed all of its Series B Preferred Stock in December 2015 prior to the scheduled increase in the dividend rate on such securities. Commencing with the second quarter of 2016, four and one-half years from its issuance, the dividend rate would have been fixed at 9.0% per annum.

Other Regulations 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

The stated goals of SOX are to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures pursuant to the securities laws.

&#160; 

SOX includes very specific disclosure requirements and corporate governance rules, requires the SEC and securities exchanges to adopt extensive additional disclosure, corporate governance and other related rules, and mandates further studies of certain issues by the SEC and the Comptroller General. SOX represents significant federal involvement in matters traditionally left to state regulatory systems, such as the regulation of the accounting profession, and to state corporate law, such as the relationship between a board of directors and management and between a board of directors and its committees.

SOX addresses, among other matters, audit committees; certification of financial statements and internal controls by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer; the forfeiture of bonuses or other incentive-based compensation and profits from the sale of an issuer&#8217;s securities by directors and senior officers in the twelve-month period following initial publication of any financial statements that later require restatement; a prohibition on insider trading during pension plan black-out periods; disclosure of off-balance sheet transactions; a prohibition on certain loans to directors and officers; expedited filing requirements for Forms 4; disclosure of a code of ethics and filing a Form 8-K for significant changes or waivers of such code; &#8220;real time&#8221; filing of periodic reports; the formation of a public company accounting oversight board; auditor independence; and various increased criminal penalties for violations of securities laws. The SEC has enacted rules to implement various provisions of SOX.

USA PATRIOT Act 

Under the USA PATRIOT Act, all financial institutions are required to take certain measures to identify their customers, prevent money laundering, monitor customer transactions and report suspicious activity to U.S. law enforcement agencies. Financial institutions also are required to respond to requests for information from federal banking regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies. Information sharing among financial institutions for the above purposes is encouraged by an exemption granted to complying financial institutions from the privacy provisions of GLBA and other privacy laws. Financial institutions that hold correspondent accounts for foreign banks or provide private banking services to foreign individuals are required to take measures to avoid dealing with certain foreign individuals or entities, including foreign banks with profiles that raise money laundering concerns, and are prohibited from dealing with foreign &#8220;shell banks&#8221; and persons from jurisdictions of particular concern. The primary federal banking regulators and the Secretary of the Treasury have adopted regulations to implement several of these provisions. All financial institutions are also required to establish internal anti-money laundering programs. The effectiveness of a financial institution in combating money laundering activities is a factor to be considered in any application submitted by the financial institution under the Bank Merger Act or the BHCA. Salisbury has in place a Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act compliance program, and has implemented internal practices, procedures, and controls to comply with anti-money laundering requirements.

Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Laws 

Salisbury has a responsibility under the CRA to help meet the credit needs of our communities, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution&#8217;s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. In connection with its examination, the FDIC assesses the Bank&#8217;s record of compliance with the CRA. In addition, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act prohibit discrimination in lending practices on the basis of characteristics specified in those statutes. The Bank&#8217;s failure to comply with the provisions of the CRA could, at a minimum, result in regulatory restrictions on our activities. The Bank&#8217;s failure to comply with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act could result in enforcement actions against the Bank by the FDIC as well as other federal regulatory agencies and the Department of Justice. The Bank&#8217;s most recent FDIC CRA rating was &#8220;satisfactory.&#8221;

The Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Regulation E and Related Laws 

The Electronic Funds Transfer Act (the &#8220;EFTA&#8221;) provides a basic framework for establishing the rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of consumers who use electronic funds transfer (&#8220;EFT&#8221;) systems. The EFTA is implemented by the Federal Reserve's Regulation E, which governs transfers initiated through ATMs, point-of-sale terminals, payroll cards, automated clearing house (&#8220;ACH&#8221;) transactions, telephone bill-payment plans, or remote banking services. Regulation E requires consumers to opt in (affirmatively consent) to participation in a bank's overdraft service program for ATM and one-time debit card transactions before overdraft fees may be assessed on the consumer&#8217;s account. Notice of the opt-in right must be provided to all new customers who are consumers, and the customer's affirmative consent must be obtained, before charges may be assessed on the consumer's account for paying such overdrafts.

Regulation E also provides bank customers with an ongoing right to revoke consent to participation in an overdraft service program for ATM and one-time debit card transactions and prohibits banks from conditioning the payment of overdrafts for checks, ACH transactions, or other types of transactions that overdraw the consumer's account on the consumer's opting into an overdraft service for ATM and one-time debit card transactions. For customers who do not affirmatively consent to overdraft service for ATM and one-time debit card transactions, a bank must provide those customers with the same account terms, conditions, and features that it provides to consumers who do affirmatively consent, except for the overdraft service for ATM and one-time debit card transactions. Salisbury does not provide an overdraft service with respect to one time point-of-sale or ATM transactions.

&#160; 

Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices

The Consolidated Financial Statements and their Notes presented within this document have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which require the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollar amounts without considering changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The impact of inflation is reflected in the increased cost of Salisbury&#8217;s operations. Unlike the assets and liabilities of industrial companies, nearly all of the assets and liabilities of Salisbury are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a greater impact on Salisbury&#8217;s performance than do the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily move in the same direction or to the same extent as the prices of goods and services.

Availability of Securities and Exchange Commission Filings

Salisbury makes available free of charge on its website (www.salisburybank.com) a link to its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Such reports filed with the SEC are also available on its website (www.sec.gov). The public may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information about accessing company filings can be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Information on Salisbury&#8217;s website is not incorporated by reference into this report. Investors are encouraged to access these reports and the other information about Salisbury&#8217;s business and operations on its website. Copies of these filings may also be obtained from Salisbury free of charge upon request.

Guide 3 Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies

The following information required by Securities Act Guide 3 &#8220;Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies&#8221; is located on the pages noted below.

&#160; &#160; Page I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders&#8217; Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential 25-26 II. Investment Portfolio 32, 61-63 III. Loan Portfolio 33-40, 63-75 IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience 27-29, 71-75 V. Deposits 40, 77 VI. Return on Equity and Assets 22 VII. Short-Term Borrowings 40, 77 

