 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Current Operations 

Digital Turbine, through its subsidiaries, innovates at the convergence of media and mobile communications, delivering end-to-end products and solutions for mobile operators, application advertisers, device original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), and other third parties to enable them to effectively monetize mobile content and generate higher value user acquisition. The Company operates its business in two reportable segments &#8211; Advertising and Content. 

The Company's Advertising business is comprised of two businesses: 

&#8226; 

Operator and OEM ("O&#38;O"), an advertiser solution for unique and exclusive carrier and OEM inventory which is comprised of services including: 

&#9702; 

Ignite&#8482; ("Ignite"), a mobile device management platform with targeted application distribution capabilities, and 

&#9702; 

Discover&#8482; ("Discover"), an intelligent application discovery platform. 

&#8226; 

Advertiser and Publisher ("A&#38;P"), a leading worldwide mobile user acquisition network which is comprised of services including: 

&#9702; 

Syndicated network, and 

&#9702; 

Real Time Bidding ("RTB" or "programmatic advertising"). 

The Company's Content business is comprised of services including: 

&#8226; 

Marketplace&#8482; ("Marketplace"), an application and content store, and 

&#8226; 

Pay&#8482; ("Pay"), a content management and mobile payment solution. 

With global headquarters in Austin, Texas and offices in Durham, North Carolina, Berlin, San Francisco Singapore, Sydney and Tel Aviv, Digital Turbine&#8217;s solutions are available worldwide. 

Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue 

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, the Company made certain segment realignments in order to conform to the way the Company manages segment performance. This realignment was driven primarily by the acquisition of Appia, Inc. on March 6, 2015. The Company has recast prior period amounts to provide visibility and comparability. None of these changes impact the Company&#8217;s previously reported consolidated net revenue, gross margin, operating income, net income, or earnings per share. 

The Company manages its business in three operating segments: Operators and OEMs, Advertisers and Publishers, and Content. The three operating segments have been aggregated into two reportable segments: Advertising and Content. Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report. 

Advertising 

O&#38;O Business 

The Company's O&#38;O business is an advertiser solution for unique and exclusive carrier and OEM inventory which is comprised of services including Ignite and Discover. 

Ignite is a mobile application management software that enables mobile operators and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") to control, manage, and monetize applications installed at the time of activation and over the life of a mobile device. Ignite allows mobile operators to personalize the app activation experience for customers and monetize their home screens via Cost-Per-Install or CPI arrangements, Cost-Per-Placement or CPP arrangements, and/or Cost-Per-Action or CPA arrangements with third party advertisers. There are several different delivery methods available to operators and OEMs on first boot of the device: Wizard, Silent, Software Development Kit ("SDK"), or Direct through Discover. Optional 

notification features are available throughout the lifecycle of the device, providing operators additional opportunity for advertising revenue streams. The Company has launched Ignite with mobile operators and OEMs in North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia Pacific, India and Israel. 

Discover enables end user application and content discovery, both organic and sponsored, through a variety of user interfaces. The recommendation engine powering Discover and other Digital Turbine products is AppSource, which provides intelligent recommendations to the device end user. Monetization occurs through the display of and/or recommendation of applications via the CPI commercial model. Discover has been deployed with mobile operators in North America and Asia Pacific. 

A&#38;P Business 

The Company's A&#38;P business, formerly Appia Core, is a leading worldwide mobile user acquisition network. Its mobile user acquisition platform is a demand side platform, or DSP. This platform allows mobile advertisers to engage with the right customers for their applications at the right time to gain them as customers. The A&#38;P business, through its syndicated network service, accesses mobile ad inventory through publishers including direct developer relationships, mobile websites, mobile carriers and mediated relationships. The A&#38;P business also accesses mobile ad inventory by purchasing inventory through exchanges using RTB. The advertising revenue generated by A&#38;P platform is shared with publishers according to contractual rates in the case of direct or mediated relationships. When inventory is accessed using RTB, A&#38;P buys inventory at a rate determined by the marketplace. Since inception, A&#38;P has delivered over 150 million application installs for hundreds of advertisers. 

Content 

Pay is an Application Programming Interface ("API") that integrates billing infrastructure between mobile operators and content publishers to facilitate mobile commerce. Increasingly, mobile content publishers want to go directly to consumers to sell their content rather than sell through traditional distributors such as Google Play or the Apple Application Store, which are not as prominent in select countries. Pay allows publishers and carriers to monetize those applications by allowing the content to be billed directly to the consumer via carrier billing. Pay has been launched in Australia, Philippines, India, and Singapore. 

Marketplace is a white-label solution for mobile operators and OEMs to offer their own branded content store. Marketplace can be sold as an application storefront that manages the retailing of mobile content including features such as merchandising, product placements, reporting, pricing, promotions, and distribution of digital goods. Marketplace also includes the distribution and licensing of content across multiple content categories including music, applications, wallpapers, videos, and games. Marketplace is deployed with many operators across multiple countries including Australia, Philippines, Singapore, and Indonesia. 

Competition 

The distribution of applications, mobile advertising, development, distribution and sale of mobile products and services is a highly competitive business. We compete for end users primarily on the basis of positioning, brand, quality and price. We compete for wireless carriers placement based on these factors, as well as historical performance, technical know-how, perception of sales potential and relationships with licensors of brands and other intellectual property. We compete for content and brand licensors based on royalty and other economic terms, perceptions of development quality, porting abilities, speed of execution, distribution breadth and relationships with carriers. We compete for platform deployment contracts with other mobile platform companies. We also compete for experienced and talented employees. 

Our primary competition for application and content distribution comes from the traditional application store businesses of Apple and Google, existing operator solutions built internally, as well as companies providing app install products and services as offered by Facebook, Snapchat, IronSource, InMobi, Cheetah Mobile, Baidu, Taptica, and others. These companies can be both customers and publishers for Digital Turbines products, as well as competitors in certain cases. For the Discover product, there is some competition in the space by home grown operator solutions, Quixey, and Aviate, but our main competitors are OEM launchers and Android launchers, which allow customers to customize their handset. With Ignite, we compete with smaller competitors, such as IronSource, Wild Tangent, and Sweet Labs, but the more material competition is internally developed operator solutions and specific mobile application management solutions built in-house by OEMs and wireless operators. Some of our existing wireless operators could make a strategic decision to develop their own solutions rather than continue to use our Discover and Ignite products, which could be a material source of competition. And finally, 

although we don&#8217;t see any competition from larger Enterprise application players such as IBM, Citrix, Oracle, salesforce.com, or MobileIron, it is possible they could decide to compete against our Ignite solution. 

Digital Turbine has internally developed solutions for top-tier mobile operators and content providers including device application management solutions, white label application and media stores, in-application payment solutions, application-based value added services, and mobile social music and TV offerings. Ignite is a patent pending mobile application management solution that enables operators and device OEMs to pre-install and manage applications from a single web interface. We see competitors in internally developed operator solutions and specific mobile application management solutions built individually by OEMs. 

Discover is a recommendation server that provides organic and sponsored application install recommendations. The Discover front-end has different User Experience and User Interfaces that enables different customers to search and discover content from various sources. We compete in this product range with traditional search engines such as Google, Yahoo, Android and manufacturers to launcher applications. 

Within our A&#38;P group that is a leading worldwide mobile user acquisition network. Its mobile user acquisition platform is a demand side platform, or DSP. This platform allows mobile advertisers to engage with the right customers for their applications at the right time to gain them as customers. A&#38;P accesses mobile ad inventory through publishers including direct developer relationships, mobile websites, carriers and mediated relationships. We compete in this product range with traditional mobile advertising networks to multimedia advertising companies seeking more efficient means to distribute content to end users including Facebook, Twitter, and Google, as well as in-house solutions used by companies who choose to coordinate mobile advertising across their own properties, such as Yahoo! Pandora, and other independent publishers. 

Marketplace can be sold as an application storefront that manages the retailing of mobile content including features such as merchandising, product placements, reporting, pricing, promotions, and distribution of digital goods. Marketplace also includes the distribution and licensing of content across multiple content categories including music, applications, wallpapers, eBooks, and games. Competitors in these two areas include Google Play and the Apple App store. 

Pay is an API that integrates between mobile operators billing infrastructure and content publishers to facilitate mobile commerce. Pay allows the publishers and the operators to monetize those applications by allowing the content to be billed directly to the consumer via the operator bill. Some competitors to the Pay product are Google Wallet, Facebook Messenger, Amazon, Android Pay, Bango, Fortumo, and home grown operator solutions. 

Product Development and Research &#38; Development 

Our product development expenses consist primarily of salaries and benefits for employees working on campaign management, creating, developing, editing, programming, performing quality assurance, obtaining carrier certification and deploying our products across various mobile phone carriers and on our internal platforms. We devote substantial resources to the development, technology support, and quality assurance of our products. Total product development costs incurred for the years ended March 31, 2016 , 2015 , 2014 &#32;were $11.0 &#32;million, $7.9 &#32;million, and 7.9 million , respectively. The amount spent on research and development activities for the years ended March 31, 2016 , 2015 , 2014 &#32;were 1.1 million , 0.7 million , and 0.5 million , respectively. 

Contracts with Customers 

We have both exclusive and non-exclusive carrier and OEM agreements. Our agreements with advertisers and mobile web and mobile application publishers are generally non-exclusive. Historically, our agreements with carriers for the Content business have had terms of one or two years with automatic renewal provisions upon expiration of the initial term, absent a contrary notice from either party, but going forward terms in carrier agreements may vary. Our carrier and OEM agreements for our Advertising business are multi-year agreements, with terms that are generally longer than one to two years. In addition, some carrier agreements provide that the carrier can terminate the agreement early and, in some instances, at any time without cause, which could give them the ability to renegotiate economic or other terms. The agreements generally do not obligate the carriers to market or distribute any of our products or services. In many of these agreements, we warrant that our products do not violate community standards, do not contain libelous content, do not contain material defects or viruses, and do not violate third-party intellectual property rights and we indemnify the carrier for any breach of a third party&#8217;s intellectual property. In addition, with regard to our Content products many of our agreements allow the carrier to set the retail price without adjustment to the negotiated revenue split. If one of these carriers sets the retail price below historic pricing models, or rejects the content we provide, the total revenues received from these carriers will be significantly reduced. In our Content business most of our sales are made directly to large national mobile phone carriers. In our Advertising business most of our 

sales are made either directly to application developers, advertising agencies representing application developers or through advertising aggregators. 

In our Advertising business, we generally have numerous advertisers who represent a significant level of business. Coupled with advertiser concentration, we distribute a significant level of advertising through one operator. If such advertising clients or this operator decided to materially reduce or discontinue its use of our platform, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our revenue and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

One major carrier customer in our Content business accounted for 26.1% &#32;of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended March 31, 2016 , and this major carrier customer and another major carrier customer in our Content business accounted for 50.6% &#32;and 11.1% &#32;of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended March 31, 2015 . For the year ended March 31, 2014 , the two previously mentioned major customers and a third major customer represented 45.8% , 22.2% , and 10.5% &#32;of our consolidated net revenues. 

Business Seasonality 

Our revenue, cash flow from operations, operating results and other key operating and financial measures may vary from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal nature of advertiser spending. For example, many advertisers (and their agencies) devote a disproportionate amount of their budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year to coincide with increased holiday spending. We expect our revenue, cash flow, operating results and other key operating and financial measures to fluctuate based on seasonal factors from period to period and expect these measures to be generally higher in the third and fourth fiscal quarters than in prior quarters. 

Employees 

As of March 31, 2016 , the Company, including its subsidiaries, had 161 &#32;employees, 151 &#32;of whom were full-time and 10 &#32;of whom were part-time. We consider our relationships with our employees to be satisfactory. As of March 31, 2016 , none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The Company also uses a number of contractors on an as needed basis. 

History of Digital Turbine, Inc. 

The Company was originally incorporated in the State of Delaware on November 6, 1998 and operated under operated under several different company names including eB2B, Mediavest, Inc., Mandalay Media, Inc., NeuMedia, Inc., and Mandalay Digital Group, Inc. In January 2015, the Company changed its name to Digital Turbine, Inc. and its NASDAQ ticker symbol to &#8220;APPS&#8221; with a new CUSIP number of 25400W-102. In 2012, the Company increased its authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock to 200,000,000 and 2,000,000, respectively, and in 2013 the Company implemented a 1-for-5 reverse stock split of its common stock (without changing the authorized number of shares or the par value of common stock). 

From 2005 to February 12, 2008, the Company was a public shell company with no operations. Throughout the years, the Company has made several acquisitions, such as (1) the acquisition in December 2011 by its wholly-owned subsidiary, Digital Turbine USA, Inc., of assets of Digital Turbine LLC, which were re-branded as &#8220;Discover,&#8221; (2) the acquisition in September 2012 by DT EMEA of &#8221; Logia Content Development and Management Ltd. (&#8220;Logia Content&#8221;), Volas Entertainment Ltd. (&#8220;Volas&#8221;) and Mail Bit Logia (2008) Ltd. (&#8220;Mail Bit&#8221;), including the &#8220;LogiaDeck&#8221; software which has been rebranded as &#8220;DT Ignite,&#8221; (3) the acquisition in April 2013 of Mirror Image International Holdings Pty Ltd, and (4) the acquisition in October 2014 of the intellectual property assets of Xyologic Mobile Analysis, GmbH ("XYO" or "Xyologic). In February 2014, the Company disposed of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Twistbox Entertainment, Inc. (&#8220;Twistbox&#8221;), and as such, it is no longer reflected as part of our continuing operations in this Report. In March 2015, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired Appia, Inc., which was renamed Digital Turbine Media, Inc. and which is referred to in this Form 10-K and the consolidated financial statements as &#8220;DT Media.&#8221; 

Available Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website at http://www.digitalturbine.com generally when such reports are available on the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) website. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 

