 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

General 

We act as a holding company to aggregate synergistic pool industry service providers. Our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Custom Pool &#38; Spa Mechanics, Inc. and Custom Pool Plastering are primarily engaged in the provision of full line pool and spa services specializing in pool maintenance and service, resurfacing, repairs, leak detection, renovations, decking and remodeling. 

Subsidiaries 

On September 11, 2014, we acquired all of the outstanding common shares of Custom Pool &#38; Spa Mechanics, Inc., an entity engaged in the pool service business, from an entity controlled by Lawrence and Loreen Calarco, officers and directors of the Company, in exchange for 19,946,783 common shares of the Company. Custom Pool &#38; Spa ( www.custompoolmechanics.com ) was incorporated in the State of Florida on October 10, 2003. 

For accounting purposes, the transaction is accounted for as a reverse recapitalization. Reverse recapitalization accounting applies when a non-operating shell company (the Company) acquires a private operating company (Custom Pool &#38; Spa Mechanics, Inc.) and the owners and management of the private operating company have actual or effective voting and operating control of the combined company. A reverse recapitalization is equivalent to the issuance of stock by the private operating company for the net monetary assets of the public shell corporation accompanied by a recapitalization with accounting similar to that resulting from a reverse acquisition, except that no goodwill or other intangible assets are recorded. 

Custom Pool &#38; Spa Mechanics, Inc. is based in Palm City, FL and owns 25 service vehicles. Custom Pool &#38; Spa Mechanics, Inc. has approximately 40 employees and circa 1400 customer accounts. Custom Pool &#38; Spa Mechanics, Inc. is the regional leader in size and, we believe, quality of services offered. The comprehensive scope of services and products permits us to meet the needs of our residential and commercial clients without having to outsource or make a referral. 

On March 30, 2015, we incorporated our wholly owned subsidiary, Custom Pool Plastering ( www.cpoolplastering.com ) in the State of Florida. Custom Pool Plastering provides custom surfaces to pool environments. We have focused our prior pool resurfacing business within the newly created subsidiary and increased our marketing efforts.

Principal Products or Services 

Custom Pool &#38; Spa Mechanics, Inc. is a full service maintenance, service, repair and pool and spa design and build company. Custom Pool &#38; Spa Mechanic&#146;s base line range of services includes: routine maintenance including water analysis and adjustment, debris removal, equipment preventative maintenance and repair. 

Custom Pool &#38; Spa Mechanics also provides the following services and products: 

leak detection and repair 

pool resurfacing 

custom design renovations and installations 

pool retiling 

coping replacement 

deck resurfacing 

salt systems 

fiber glass resurfacing 

tiki huts and outdoor kitchen installations 

pool and spa heat systems 

pool &#38; spa wireless capabilities 

filter systems. 

Custom Pool Plastering provides custom surfaces to pool environments and has its own custom built spray truck and serves the Martin, Palm Beach, St Lucie, Indian River, and Brevard counties. 

Custom Pool Plastering&#146;s artisans are certified in all offered finishes including but not limited to Diamond Brite, Florida Stucco and River Rok. Custom colors are also available. 

Recent Acquisition 

On January 5, 2016, the Company closed the acquisition of Sundook Advanced Pool Services LLC (&#147;Sundook&#148;) and Lighthouse Pool Supply (&#147;Lighthouse&#148;). The Company acquired 100% of Sundook and Lighthouse and paid the Seller $165,000 and 417,000 common shares of the Company valued at $29,190 that are restricted per Rule 144. An additional $25,000 was escrowed pending an audit of customer account retentions after thirty days, and that deposit is still in escrow. The acquisition expands the 

Company&#146;s business presence in its primary market of Martin, St Lucie and Indian River counties, Florida. Sundook&#146;s pool service routes are synergistic with the Company&#146;s pool service routes and provide for more efficiency and better operating margins. 

On March 18, 2016, the Company negotiated the final settlement for the acquisition of Sundook. Due to Sundook underperforming certain terms and warranties under the asset purchase agreement, the Company paid $10,000 and Sundook surrendered the 417,000 shares of the Company&#146;s stock.

On January 5, 2016, the Company issued 1,562,500 shares of the Series A Preferred Stock at $0.08 per share for $125,000 to Lawrence Calarco, and Loreen Calarco, officers and directors of the Company. The use of proceeds was to close the acquisition of Sundook. 

Separately, also on March 18, 2016, the Company sold Lighthouse, the retail store acquired in the Sundook transaction, for $17,500.

Revenue 

Revenue is earned through fees charged for the pool and spa services. Fees charged will vary, depending upon the work involved. For plastering and resurfacing, revenue is earned under contract and the charges vary by each job depending on what level of work and materials are used. We do not anticipate that revenues will significantly increase until we are able to add additional personnel needed to continue our expansion in our primary market area.

Competition 

The pool and spa industry has many competitors in our targeted market area. We will compete on the basis of price and quality of services against other small companies like ours, as well as large companies that have a similar business. Clients usually choose their service company by who they feel has the most experience in certain fields for which they have a particular need at the time, as well as price. 

The vast majority of our competitors are small, one or two man operations that cater mainly to water quality and cleanliness. They lack the infrastructure and depth that we have developed. We compete by offering a larger range of services and by having a lower cost structure through volume discounts on supplies. 

Marketing 

Sales are generated primarily by customer referral and direct marketing to industry peers.

Markets 

The primary market area includes Martin, Palm Beach, St Lucie, Indian River and Brevard counties, Florida. 

Patents and Trademarks 

We do not, at this time, have any patents or trademarks. However, we may, in the future, trademark certain logos that we have been using. 

Governmental Regulations 

Custom Pool &#38; Spa Mechancs, Inc. is licensed in Martin County (# MCMR3703), Florida - State License (#CPC1458372), City of Port St. Lucie (#PLS*11057), St. Lucie County (#27473), liquid petroleum license (#LP28043) and is fully insured. Custom Pool Plastering is licensed by the State of Florida (#CPC1458730). Our business does not fall under any other government regulations.

Employees 

As of March 30, 2016, we have 40 full-time employees and no part-time employees. 

