 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

MiMedx&#174; is an integrated developer, processor and marketer of patent protected and proprietary regenerative biomaterial products and bioimplants processed from human amniotic membrane and other birth tissues and human skin and bone. " Innovations in Regenerative Biomaterials" &#160; is the framework behind our mission to give physicians products and tissues to help the body heal itself. Our biomaterial platform technologies are AmnioFix&#174;, EpiFix&#174;, OrthoFlo, Physio&#8482;, AlloBurn&#8482;, and CollaFix&#8482;. AmnioFix and EpiFix are our tissue technologies processed from human amniotic membrane derived from donated placentas. Elected in advance of delivery through our donor program, a mother delivering a healthy baby via scheduled full-term Caesarean section birth may donate the placenta in lieu of having it discarded as medical waste. We process the human amniotic membrane utilizing our proprietary PURION&#174; Process, to produce a safe and effective implant. MiMedx is the leading supplier of amniotic tissue, having supplied over 500,000 allografts to date for application in the Wound Care, Burn, Surgical, Orthopedic, Spine, Sports Medicine, Ophthalmic and Dental sectors of healthcare. We recently introduced OrthoFlo, an amniotic fluid derived allograft for homologous use. Amniotic fluid is donated by a consenting mother delivering a full-term healthy baby by scheduled Caesarean section. Through the recent acquisition of Stability Biologics, our newest proprietary platforms include Physio, a unique bone grafting material comprised of 100% bone tissue with no added carrier, a demineralized bone matrix (DBM) to complement our product portfolio offerings within the Orthopedic market and AlloBurn, a skin product for burns. CollaFix, our next technology platform we plan to commercialize, is our collagen fiber technology designed to mimic the natural composition, structure and mechanical properties of musculoskeletal tissues in order to augment their repair. CollaFix is the only known biological, biodegradable, biomimetic technology that matches human tendon in strength and stiffness. 

Our History 

Our current business began on February 8, 2008, when Alynx, Co., our predecessor company, acquired MiMedx, Inc., a Florida-based, privately-held, development-stage medical device company, the assets of which included licenses to two development-stage medical device technology platforms- HydroFix&#174; and CollaFix. On March 31, 2008, Alynx, Co. merged 

into MiMedx Group, Inc., a Florida corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary that had been formed on February 28, 2008, for purposes of the merger. MiMedx Group, Inc. was the surviving corporation in the merger. In 2010, we commercialized the first medical device product using our HydroFix technology. In 2011 and 2012, we launched additional versions of our HydroFix&#174; product line. In January 2011, the Company acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Surgical Biologics, LLC (&#8220;Surgical Biologics&#8221;). The acquisition of Surgical Biologics expanded our business by adding allografts and other products processed from human amniotic membrane to our existing medical device product lines based on our HydroFix technology. In 2013, we changed the name of Surgical Biologics to MiMedx Tissue Services, LLC. Due to the relatively small size of the addressable market for our HydroFix product line, we decided to discontinue that product line in the fourth quarter of 2013. Although we have yet to commercialize any products using our CollaFix technology, we continue to believe that technology presents a significant opportunity in the orthopedic and sports medicine markets. 

On January 13, 2016, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Stability Inc. d/b/a Stability Biologics. During its five year history, Stability Biologics evolved from its initial focus as a distributor of allografts, to its current position as an integrated provider in the surgical, spine and orthopedics sectors of healthcare specializing in human tissue and bone product design and development, tissue processing and sales and distribution. The acquisition of Stability was effected by the merger of Stability Inc. into a newly created wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The new subsidiary was the surviving company in the merger and was subsequently renamed Stability Biologics, LLC ("Stability"). The Company is working to integrate Stability's product offerings with the Company's existing surgical, spine and orthopedics portfolio. 

For financial information concerning our operating performance, please refer to Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this report and our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. 

Our Technology and Products 

AmnioFix, EpiFix and other Tissue-Based Allografts 

The Company is the leading supplier of allografts processed from amniotic tissue, having supplied over 500,000 allografts to date for application in the Wound Care, Surgical, Sports Medicine, Ophthalmic, and Dental sectors of healthcare. Our amniotic membrane products include our own brands, AmnioFix and EpiFix, as well as products that we supply on a private label or &#8220;OEM&#8221; basis. We continue to research new opportunities for amniotic tissue, and currently have several additional offerings in various stages of conceptualization and development. 

Amniotic membrane is considered immunoprivileged and does not elicit an immune response. Natural human amniotic membrane is composed of multiple layers that contain: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Structural proteins; including: 

&#9702; 

Collagen types I, III, IV, V, and VII 

&#9702; 

Elastin 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Specialized extracellular matrix proteins; including: 

&#9702; 

Fibrillin 

&#9702; 

Fibronectin 

&#9702; 

Laminins 

&#8226; 

TIMPs 1,2,4, Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase 1, 2, 4 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

At least 226 Growth Factors; including but not limited to: 

&#9702; 

Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF) 

&#9702; 

Transforming Growth Factor Beta (TGF-B) 

&#9702; 

Fibroblast Growth Factor (FGF) 

&#9702; 

Platelet Derived Growth Factors AA &#38; BB (PDGF AA&#38;BB) 

We believe our proprietary technique for processing allografts from amniotic tissue preserves more of the natural characteristics of the tissue than the processes used by our competitors. We operate a licensed tissue bank that is registered as a tissue establishment with the United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). We are an accredited member of the American Association of Tissue Banks (&#8220;AATB&#8221;). We partner with physicians and hospitals to recover donated placental tissue. After consent for donation is obtained, donors are screened for eligibility and the donated tissue is tested for safety in 

compliance with federal regulations and AATB standards on communicable disease transmission. All donor records and test results are reviewed by our Medical Director prior to the release of the tissue for processing. 

Over several years, we have developed a unique and proprietary technique for processing allografts from the donated placental tissue. The PURION Process produces an allograft that is easy to use and effective. This unique processing technique specifically focuses on preserving the tissue&#8217;s bioactive growth factor content, and maintaining the structure and collagen matrix of the tissue. The PURION Process also allows the allograft to be stored at room temperature and have a five-year shelf life. Additionally, each sheet allograft incorporates specialized visual embossments that assist the health care practitioner with proper allograft placement and orientation. 

Our management team is dedicated to providing easy to use, effective allografts that exceed customer expectations. To better satisfy the requirements and expectations of our customers, we maintain strict controls on quality at each step of the process beginning at the time of procurement. We have developed and implemented a Quality Management System in compliance with both FDA regulations and AATB standards. 

EpiFix 

Our EpiFix allograft is configured for external use. It is used to enhance healing as well as to modulate inflammation. The EpiFix platform has been used to treat chronic wounds, including diabetic foot ulcers, venous stasis ulcers, arterial ulcers and pressure ulcers, burns and surgical wounds. We offer EpiFix in a sheet form as well as a micronized powder form. The powder can be packed into wounds and is particularly useful for tunneling wounds. Some physicians also choose to mix the powder with saline to inject it into the wound bed and wound margins. 

AmnioFix 

Our AmnioFix allografts are configured for internal use. Currently, our AmnioFix product line consists of three main configurations, AmnioFix, AmnioFix Wrap and AmnioFix Injectable: 

&#8226; 

AmnioFix is provided in a sheet form. It is used to modulate inflammation, enhance healing and to minimize scar tissue formation. It has been used in spine, urology and general surgeries. 

&#8226; 

AmnioFix Wrap also is supplied in a sheet form and is configured for the same purposes as AmnioFix&#174;, but is optimized for use as a &#8220;wrap&#8221; for nerves, tendons or ligaments. 

&#8226; 

AmnioFix Injectable is supplied in micronized powder form used to reduce inflammation while enhancing healing. AmnioFix Injectable has been used to treat conditions such as tendonitis, including plantar fasciitis, lateral epicondylitis, and medial epicondylitis, bursitis, strains and sprains. 

OEM Products 

Currently, allografts for ophthalmic surgery and dental applications are sold on an OEM basis pursuant to agreements whereby we have granted third parties exclusive licenses to some of our technology for use in those fields in specified markets. As further discussed below, the Company also sells products on a non-exclusive OEM basis to Medtronic for spinal procedures and Zimmer Biomet for spine and orthopedic procedures. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; OrthoFlo 

OrthoFlo is a unique human tissue allograft that is derived from amniotic fluid, donated by mothers delivering healthy babies by scheduled Caesarean section. It is for homologous use to (a) protect and cushion, (b) provide lubrication, and (c) reduce inflammation. Amniotic fluid, in utero, naturally functions to protect, cushion and enhance mobility. Key elements of amniotic fluid include growth factors, carbohydrates, proteins, lipids, electrolytes, and other nutrients, as well as hyaluronic acid (HA), a principal component of viscosity and lubrication in synovial fluid. A multitude of regulatory factors have been identified in amniotic fluid and synovial fluid, including the following which are some of the most notable: 

&#8226; Interleukin 1 Receptor Antagonist (IL-1ra): Antagonist of IL-1 signaling which is known to be involved in cartilage degeneration 

&#8226; Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinases (TIMPs): inactivates a number of matrix metalloproteinases responsible for cartilage degradation 

Medical Device Technologies 

Our CollaFix technology combines an innovative means of creating fibers from soluble collagen and a specialized cross-linking process. Initial laboratory and animal testing shows that the cross-linked collagen fibers produce a very strong, biocompatible, and durable construct that can be transformed into biomechanical constructs intended to treat a number of orthopedic soft-tissue trauma and disease disorders. The technology is licensed from Shriners Hospitals for Children and University of South Florida Research Foundation, Inc. pursuant to an exclusive, world-wide license to practice and use the technology and to manufacture, have manufactured, market, offer for sale and sell products incorporating the technology. The license of the technology is perpetual, except that the license terminates on a country-by-country basis as to any patent or portion thereof included in the licensed technology upon the expiration of such patent or portion thereof in the applicable country. We are currently working to develop and commercialize products using our CollaFix technology and continue to evaluate how best to exploit this technology. We may license rights to specific aspects of our collagen technology to third parties for use in applications and indications that we choose not to exploit ourselves. 

We are required to pay a royalty of 3% on all commercial sales revenue from the sale of products incorporating the licensed technology. We also are obligated to pay a $50,000 minimum annual royalty payment over the life of the license. 

Intellectual Property 

Our intellectual property includes owned and licensed patents, owned and licensed patent applications and patents pending, proprietary manufacturing processes and trade secrets, and trademarks associated with our technology. Furthermore, we require employees, consultants and advisors to sign Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreements, as well as Nondisclosure Agreements that assign to us and protect the intellectual property existing and generated from their work or that we may otherwise use or own. We believe that our patents, proprietary manufacturing processes, trade secrets, trademarks, and technology licensing rights provide us with important competitive advantages. 

Patents and Patent Applications 

Because of the substantial expertise and investment of time, effort and financial resources required to bring new regenerative biomaterial products and implants to the market, the importance of obtaining and maintaining patent protection for significant new technologies, products and processes cannot be underestimated. As of the date of this Form 10-K, we own 20 U.S. patents related to our amniotic tissue technology and products. Over 80 additional patent applications covering aspects of this technology are pending at the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with various international patenting agencies. 

Worldwide, our CollaFix and HydroFix technologies are protected with 34 and 14 issued patents, respectively. Additionally, in the U.S. and internationally, there are 30 patent applications pending covering our CollaFix technology. 

See discussion below- &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; under the heading &#8220; Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. &#8221; 

Market Overview 

We currently are focused primarily on the U.S. market, but we are actively working towards international expansion opportunities. In the U.S., the key areas of focus for the products we market currently are (a) Would Care; and (b) Surgical, Sports Medicine and Orthopedics (SSO). We believe Stability's spine and orthopedic related product line is a perfect complement to the Company's existing SSO products, and will serve to expedite the growth of our SSO product offerings. 

Wound Care 

The number of chronic and acute wounds in the United States is estimated at 8.1 million, with hard to heal wounds (applicable for advanced wound care allografts) estimated at 2.9 million 1 . Our placental tissue-based allografts help heal acute and chronic wounds. Chronic wounds are defined as wounds that are delayed in closing compared to healing in an otherwise healthy individual. Some of the most common types of chronic wounds are diabetic foot ulcers, venous leg ulcers, pressure ulcers, arterial ulcers, and surgical wounds that become infected. Acute wounds can be caused by surgical intervention, trauma or burns. Our amniotic tissue platforms have the potential to reduce scar tissue formation in a variety of applications, including the chronic wound types listed above and acute wounds such as those occurring in the estimated 1.6 million patients annually undergoing elective aesthetic plastic surgery 2 , as well the estimated 1.3 million patients annually undergoing Cesarean section births 3 , where scarring can limit flexibility, generate post-operative pain and can be unattractive. In both acute and chronic wounds, the physician&#8217;s goal during treatment is to heal the wound while allowing the patient to retain natural function in the area of the wound with minimal scarring and infection. If a wound becomes infected, it can lead to a loss of limb or life, 

and physicians want to close the wound as quickly as possible to minimize this risk. Patients with chronic wounds likely have comorbidities, such as diabetes or poor circulation, that complicate or delay the healing cascade. According to BioMedGPS, LLC SmartTRAK Business Intelligence, the 2014 U.S. Wound Biologics segment (comprised of skin/dermal substitutes (which includes the Company's allografts), topical delivery/drugs and collagen/active dressings) of the Advanced Wound Care Market reached approximately $865 million and is expected to increase to approximately $1.38 billion in 2019, a compounded annual growth rate of 9.8%. 

Our EpiFix allografts are used for the treatment of chronic and acute, partial and full-thickness wounds. EpiFix contains essential wound healing factors, extracellular matrix proteins and inflammatory mediators to help modulate inflammation, enhance healing, and reduce scar tissue formation. Unlike some competing technologies, the use of EpiFix is not limited to a specific wound type. EpiFix stores at ambient temperature for up to five years. Certain cultured skin substitutes currently on the market require cryogenic freezer storage and expire only six months from time of processing. Another leading skin substitute is delivered on demand and has strict temperature controls between 20&#176; and 23&#176; Celsius with a ten-day shelf-life. We believe the complicated logistics associated with the use of those products highlight the distinct advantages of EpiFix. 

In addition, the Company markets multiple sizes of allografts (from 1.5cm 2 &#32;to 49cm 2 ) which minimizes product waste. Two former market leading competitor products come in only one size each, 2 inch x 3 inch (38 cm 2 ) and a 75 mm disc (44 cm 2 ). Since the majority of diabetic foot ulcers are &#160; less than 5cm 2 , using either one of these products results in significant waste on average. 

Surgical, Sports Medicine and Orthopedics 

Our AmnioFix tissue allografts have been used to enhance healing in patients undergoing surgical procedures to help to reduce scar tissue formation in a variety of applications including, but not limited to, plastic surgery, general surgery, gynecological, urology, orthopedics, spine, and sports medicine. 

AmnioFix is used as a barrier membrane in procedures where scar tissue formation may be problematic. AmnioFix Wrap is applied by wrapping target tissues (ligaments, tendons, and or nerves) to create a barrier, which performs two functions: it acts as a neo-sheath to protect the target tissue and provides extracellular matrix proteins, cytokines and chemokines to enhance the wound healing process. AmnioFix provides additional benefits, including anti-inflammatory agents and growth factors that may assist with healing. 

Spine/Orthopedics 

There are approximately 1.47 million spinal surgeries per year 4 &#32;and most of them potentially could use AmnioFix to reduce scarring and modulate inflammation during the primary procedure, which may reduce time during revisions or follow-up surgeries. A reduction of scar tissue is beneficial if the patient needs to have an additional surgical procedure in the future, as it may facilitate the re-access to the surgical site, as well as help with minimizing scar attachment to the spinal dura in spine surgery. In addition to spinal surgeries, the AmnioFix offerings have been used in Arthoplasty (total joint replacement) of the knee, hip, shoulder, ankle, hand and elbow. 

Sports Medicine 

&#32; There are an estimated 90,000 5 &#32;peripheral nerve injuries which require repair each year and an estimated 8.4 6 &#32;million patients who have tendinopathy associated with inflammation that potentially could benefit from our AmnioFix products.AmnioFix Wrap is a surgical implant that has multiple features desired by surgeons to support the repair and replacement of ligaments, tendons grafts and repaired nerves. AmnioFix Injectable and AmnioFix Sports Med address the chronic sports/work soft tissue injury market, including but not limited to tennis elbow, golfers elbow, plantar fasciitis, tendonitis, bursitis and sprains. Soft tissue injuries are often caused by either trauma or overuse of the affected area. Micro-tears in the tissue form and become inflamed. Scar tissue may form and impede a full recovery. Steroids are often used as a first line to help the patient cope with the pain and assist with recovery. There are a number of patients who do not get relief with steroids or do not want to use steroids, and over-use of steroids can cause long-term damage to the tissue. AmnioFix Injectable and AmnioFix Sports Med modulate inflammation and reduce scar tissue formation, while enhancing healing. Additionally, OrthoFlo has recently been launched to address an estimated 26.9 million U.S. adults faced with Osteroarthritis of the joints. 7 &#160; 

Market overview numbers derived from the following sources: 

1. 

BioMedGPS SmartTRAK Business Intelligence 

2. 

American Society of Plastic Surgeons &#8220;2012 Plastic Surgery Statistics Report&#8221; http://www.plasticsurgery.org/news-and-resources/2012-plastic-surgery-statistics.html 

3. 

CDC Report - National Hospital Discharge Surgery: 2010 Table, Procedures by Selected patient characteristic - Number by procedure category and age (/nchs/data/nhds/4procedures/2010pro4_numberprocedureage.pdf) 

4. 

iData 2012, U.S. Market for Spinal Implants 

5. 

Stabenfeldt, SE, Garcia, AJ, LaPlaca, MC. Thermoreversible laminin-functionalized hydrogel for neural tissue engineering. J of Bio Materials Research. Part A, 2006. 77: p. 718-725 

6. 

Millenium 2013, clinical articles and management internal estimates 

7. 

Lawrence RC, Felson DT, Helmick CG, et al. Estimates of the prevalence of arthritis and other rheumatic conditions in the United States. Part II. Arthritis Rheum. 2008;58(1):26-35. 

Marketing and Sales 

As of February 2016, our field sales force is comprised of over 230 sales professionals who call on hospitals, wound care clinics, physician offices and federal health care facilities such as Department of Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense Hospitals. Our direct sales force focuses on the Wound Care market and the SSO market, though, on the SSO side, we have continued to maintain a network of independent sales agents and distributors to sell sports medicine and orthopedic spine specialties lines. In addition, Stability's sales distribution organization consists of about 100 independent sales representatives that are focused in specific orthopedic/spine areas. 

We continue to pursue private label or &#8220;OEM&#8221; relationship, to date the most notable of which are Medtronic and Zimmer Biomet. In September 2013, we entered into a non-exclusive distribution agreement with Medtronic, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, SpinalGraft Technologies, LLC (SGT). Under the agreement, MiMedx provides our PURION Processed grafts to Medtronic to be marketed by SGT under the RDX2&#174; brand name for spinal applications throughout the United States. 

&#32; In September 2014, we entered into a non-exclusive distribution agreement with Zimmer Biomet to distribute AmnioFix under its private label brand, AmnioRepair&#174;. Under the agreement, Zimmer markets AmnioRepair for reconstructive, sports medicine, trauma, extremities and spine applications in the U.S. These partnerships allow us to leverage the sales and distribution resources of significant industry companies. In the ophthalmic and dental markets, our products are still marketed exclusively through licensee companies in each such field. 

Reimbursement 

In 2015, approximately 26% of our products were purchased for U.S. Government accounts, which do not depend on reimbursement from third parties. With the exception of Government accounts, most users of our products are doctors, hospitals or ambulatory surgery centers that rely on reimbursement by third-party payers. Accordingly, our growth substantially depends on adequate levels of third-party reimbursement for our products from these payers. In the U.S., such payers include U.S. Governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans, managed care programs and workers&#8217; compensation plans. Governmental payment programs have prescribed coverage criteria and reimbursement rates for medical products, services and procedures. Similarly, private third-party payers have their own coverage criteria and often have negotiated payment levels for medical products, services and procedures. In addition, in the U.S., an increasing percentage of insured individuals are receiving their medical care through managed care programs, which monitor and may require pre-approval of the products and services that a member will receive. 

EpiFix Sheet Products 

Medicare Coverage 

By far, the largest third party payer in the United States is the Medicare program, which is a federally-funded program that provides healthcare coverage for senior citizens and the disabled. The Medicare program is administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). CMS has appointed eight Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs), which are private insurance companies that serve as agents of CMS in the administration of the Medicare program, including paying claims and making coverage decisions for the Medicare-assigned jurisdiction for which they are responsible. Each MAC has its own process and standards for determining whether it will cover and reimburse a procedure or particular product. Private payers often follow the lead of Governmental payers in making coverage and reimbursement determinations. Therefore, 

achieving favorable Medicare coverage and reimbursement is usually a significant gating factor for successful reimbursement coverage for a new product. 

The coverage and reimbursement framework for products under Medicare is determined in accordance with the Social Security Act and pursuant to regulations promulgated by CMS, as well as the agency&#8217;s sub regulatory coverage and reimbursement determinations. Ultimately, however, each of the MACs determines whether and on what conditions they will provide coverage for the product. Such decisions are based on their assessments of the efficacy and cost effectiveness of the applicable product. As noted below under the heading &#8220;Research and Development,&#8221; we have devoted significant resources to clinical studies to be able to provide data to the MACs, as well as other payers, in order to demonstrate the efficacy and clinical effectiveness of our EpiFix sheet products. As of the date of this report, our EpiFix sheet products are eligible for coverage by all eight of the Medicare intermediaries. 

For Medicare reimbursement purposes, our EpiFix sheet products are classified as &#8220;skin substitutes.&#8221; Prior to 2014, providers that administered EpiFix allografts and other skin substitutes were reimbursed for the products based on the size of the graft, computed on a per square centimeter basis. The payment rate was calculated using the manufacturer&#8217;s average sales price (&#8220;ASP&#8221;) information. This payment methodology applied to physician offices, hospital outpatient and ambulatory surgery centers. We and other manufacturers of skin substitutes are required to provide ASP information to CMS on a quarterly basis. The Medicare payment rates are updated quarterly based on this ASP information. The skin substitutes Medicare payment rate, which is established by statute, was ASP plus 6%. 

Beginning on April 1, 2013 and continuing through 2016, Medicare payments for all items and services, including EpiFix sheet products, were reduced by 2% under the sequestration required by the Budget Control Act of 2011, Pub. L. No. 112-25, as amended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, Pub. L. 112-240. 

Our EpiFix sheet allografts come in many sizes that are appropriate to the size of the wounds they are used to treat. Some competitive products come in only one size that is, on average, significantly larger than the wounds they are used to treat. The provider has to cut these products to size and the rest of the product is discarded, and, therefore, wasted. Because reimbursement for these products was based on the size of the graft, the Medicare payment for these grafts was costly. In part to combat this wastage, in November 2013, CMS announced a new reimbursement methodology for skin substitutes in the hospital outpatient and ambulatory surgical center setting effective in 2014. Under the new Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System (&#8220;OPPS&#8221;) Final Rule, skin substitutes are no longer reimbursed based on the size of the graft. Rather the new rule "bundles" or &#8220;packages" the reimbursement for skin care substitutes, including EpiFix, with the reimbursement for the related medical procedure under a two-tier payment system. Thus, in the OPPS setting providers receive a single payment that covers the application of the product as well as the product itself. In 2014, skin substitutes with an average sales price above the weighted average mean unit cost of $32 per sq. cm. were classified in the high cost group and were reimbursed at a higher packaged rate; those at or below the weighted average per sq. cm. were classified in the low cost group and are reimbursed at a lower packaged rate. In 2015, the weighted average mean unit cost to determine the high and low cost group was $27 per sq. cm. The national average packaged rate was $1,371 in 2014, $1,407 in 2015 and $1,411 in 2016. All skin substitutes products administered in the OPPS setting are bundled except for those that have been approved by CMS for pass-through status. This "bundled" payment structure only applies to the hospital outpatient and ambulatory surgery settings. Physician office payment structure remains at ASP plus 6%. 

Section 1833(t)(6) of the Social Security Act provides for temporary additional payments or &#8220;transitional pass-through payments&#8221; for certain &#8220;new&#8221; drugs, devices and biological agents. Under the statute, transitional pass-through payments can be made for at least 2 years but not more than 3 years. 

During the pass-through period, biologicals are eligible for separate payment computed as ASP plus 6%, less an offset(reduction) equal to the portion of the packaged payment determined to be attributed to the cost of the product (as opposed to the related procedure). The offset is designed to ensure that the total payment for the grafts does not exceed ASP plus 6%. In 2014, CMS determined that approximately 56% of the packaged payment is associated with the product and that is the amount reduced from the total product payment. The effect of the offset was that only larger size grafts were eligible for additional payments. 

Our EpiFix sheet allografts were granted pass-through status through the end of 2014, allowing separate reimbursement for EpiFix sheet allografts administered in hospital outpatient departments and ambulatory surgery centers at ASP plus 6%, subject to the offset. The pass-through status for EpiFix expired in 2014. The Company prepared for this change by offering additional sizes of its grafts at prices below the bundled rate beginning in 2015. The new CMS reimbursement packaged policy does not apply to products applied in physician offices, which will continue to be reimbursed using the ASP plus 6% payment methodology. CMS has not changed the payment methodology as it relates to MiMedx products for calendar year 2016. The methodology under which CMS establishes reimbursement rates is subject to further change. 

As discussed below under the heading "Competition," management believes this methodology will provide us with opportunities to increase market share. 

Private Payers 

We continue to devote considerable resources to clinical trials to support coverage and reimbursement of our products and we are aware of an increasing number of private payers that are reimbursing for EpiFix administered in the physician office or the hospital outpatient and ambulatory surgery center settings. Even when a payer is convinced of the clinical and cost-effectiveness of our product, coverage and reimbursement varies according to the individual or group plan or policy under which the patient has coverage. More than 180 health plans currently provide coverage for EpiFix for the treatment of Diabetic Foot Ulcers (DFU) and Venus Leg Ulcer (VLU) wounds. We have established and continue to grow a reimbursement support group to educate and assist providers and patients with regard to reimbursement for our products. 

Hospital Use 

EpiFix products administered in the hospital setting generally are bundled as part of the hospital&#8217;s bill for a diagnosis-related group (DRG). In these cases, we continue to educate the hospital that the product is both efficacious and cost-effective. 

AmnioFix Sheet Products 

Our AmnioFix surgical products generally are bundled as part of a hospital&#8217;s bill for a DRG. As noted above with respect to EpiFix, the ability to sell products to the hospital market is dependent upon demonstrating to the hospital that the product is both efficacious and cost-effective. 

EpiFix and AmnioFix Micronized Products 

Currently, our micronized products are available for coverage by only a limited number of commercial and state Medicaid plans. 

Other Products 

There is currently no third-party reimbursement available for OrthoFlo or any of the products manufactured and processed by Stability, except to the extent such products are bundled as part of a hospital&#8217;s bill for a DRG. However, the Company is actively investigating all reimbursement options from third-party payers with respect to these products. 

See discussion below- &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; under the heading &#8220; Our revenues depend on adequate reimbursement from public and private insurers and health systems.&#8221; 

Customer Concentration 

The Company provides products to Government accounts, including the Department of Veteran's Affairs, through a distributor relationship with AvKARE, Inc. ("AvKARE"), which is a veteran-owned General Services Administration Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) Contractor. In addition, in 2014, the Company applied for, and in early 2015 received, its own FSS contract with a term through 2020, which allows the Company to sell directly to Government accounts. The initial term of the distribution agreement with AvKARE was due to expire in April 2015 but it has been extended via amendment through June 30, 2017, with the ability to further extend under certain circumstances. The agreement with AvKARE, as amended, allows the Company to sell its products directly on the FSS. Ultimately, the Company intends to transition all of its Government sales to sales sold directly to Government accounts on the FSS. In 2015, sales to AvKARE represented approximately 24% of total revenue. 

See discussion below- &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; under the heading &#8220; A significant portion of our revenues and accounts receivable come from Government accounts&#8221;. 

Competition 

Competition in the regenerative medicine field is intense and subject to rapid technological change. Companies within the industry compete on the basis of product efficacy, pricing, and ease of handling/logistics. However, the most important factor is third-party reimbursement, which is difficult to obtain as it is a time-consuming and expensive process. We believe our success in obtaining third-party reimbursement for our products is a significant competitive advantage. 

The Company competes in multiple areas of clinical treatment where regenerative biomaterials may be employed to modulate inflammation, enhance healing and reduce scar tissue formation: advanced wound care treatment, spine, orthopedic, surgery and sports medicine. The EpiFix product line is promoted primarily for external use such as advanced wound healing, while the AmnioFix products are positioned for healing of surgical wounds and have been used in spine, orthopedics, surgical and sports medicine applications. 

&#160; 

Advanced wound care therapies employ technologies to aid in wound healing in cases where the healing has stalled or stopped. The primary competitive products in this space include other amniotic membrane allografts, tissue-engineered living skin equivalents, and porcine- or bovine-derived collagen matrix products, among others. In 2015, our main competitor was Organogenesis, Inc., the manufacturer of Dermagraft&#174; and Apligraf&#174;. These products are tissue-engineered living skin equivalents that require special shipping and/or storage in freezers. The Organogenesis products also come in only one large size, which is significantly larger than the median wound size for the wounds they are used to treat, resulting in a high cost product, much of which is wasted. We have competed effectively against Dermagraft&#174; and Apligraf&#174; based on clinical efficacy, cost effectiveness, ease of use and storage of our products. Other smaller competitors include the Osiris Therapeutics, Inc. product Grafix&#174; and other single-layer amnion products. 

Smith &#38; Nephew&#8217;s Oasis&#174; is the primary competitive product among the porcine- or bovine- derived collagen matrix products. As a collagen it can help with providing a matrix in the wound; however, it offers limited growth factors to enhance healing and due to the porcine origin may cause an immune response in the patient. 

The primary competitive products in the SSO market are other amniotic membrane allografts and injectable solutions. 

See discussion below- &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; under the heading &#8220; We are in a highly competitive and evolving field and face competition from well-established tissue processors and medical device manufacturers, as well as new market entrants.&#8221; 

Government Regulation 

FDA Premarket Clearance and Approval Requirements 

Tissue Products 

The products manufactured and processed by the Company are derived from human tissue. As discussed below, some tissue-based products are regulated solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act as human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps, which do not require premarket clearance or approval by the FDA. Other tissue products are regulated as biologics and, in order to be lawfully marketed in the United States, require an FDA-approved biologics application (BLA). 

Products Regulated as HCT/Ps 

&#32; The FDA has specific regulations governing human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. An HCT/P is a product containing or consisting of human cells or tissue intended for transplantation into a human patient. HCT/Ps that meet the criteria for regulation solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (so-called &#8220;361 HCT/Ps&#8221;) are not subject to any premarket clearance or approval requirements but are subject to post-market regulatory requirements. 

To be a 361 HCT/P, a product generally must meet all four of the following criteria: 

&#8226; 

It must be minimally manipulated; 

&#8226; 

It must be intended for homologous use; 

&#8226; 

Its manufacture must not involve combination with another article, except for water, crystalloids or a sterilizing, preserving or storage agent; and 

&#8226; 

It must not have a systemic effect and must not be dependent upon the metabolic activity of living cells for its primary function. 

If an HCT/P meets all the above criteria, no FDA review for safety and effectiveness under a drug, device, or biological product marketing application is required. MiMedx believes that its amniotic tissue allografts are 361 HCT/Ps, including the micronized versions of EpiFix and AmnioFix. 

However, on August 28, 2013, the FDA issued an Untitled Letter alleging that the Company's micronized amniotic tissue allografts do not meet the criteria for regulation solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act and that, as a result, MiMedx would need a biologics license to lawfully market those micronized products. Since the issuance of the Untitled Letter, the Company has been in discussions with the FDA to communicate its disagreement with the FDA's assertion that the Company's allografts are more than minimally manipulated. To date, the FDA has not changed its position that the Company's micronized products are not eligible for marketing solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, but discussions are continuing. The Company continues to market its micronized products but is also pursuing the Biologics License Application (&#8220;BLA&#8221;) process for certain of its micronized products. 

On December 22, 2014, the FDA issued for comment &#8220;Draft Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Minimal Manipulation of Human Cells, Tissues, and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products.&#8221; Essentially the Minimal Manipulation draft guidance takes the same position with respect to micronized amniotic tissue that it took in the Untitled Letter to MiMedx 16 months earlier. The Company submitted comments asserting that the Minimal Manipulation draft guidance represents agency action that goes far beyond the FDA&#8217;s statutory authority, is inconsistent with existing HCT/ P regulations and the FDA&#8217;s prior positions, and is internally inconsistent and scientifically unsound. 

On October 28, 2015, the FDA issued for comment, "Draft Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Homologous Use of Human Cells, Tissues, and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products." The Company submitted comments on this Homologous Use draft guidance. The FDA has also indicated that it will hold a public hearing on a date in 2016 to be determined to obtain input on the Homologous Use draft guidance and the previously released Minimal Manipulation draft guidance, as well as other recently issued guidance documents on HCT/Ps. The Company has requested and been granted an opportunity to speak at this hearing. 

See discussion below- &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; under the heading &#8220; To the extent our products do not qualify for regulation as human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, this could result in removal of the applicable products from the market, would make the introduction of new tissue products more expensive and significantly delay the expansion of our tissue product offerings and subject us to additional post-market regulatory requirements.&#8221; 

Products Regulated as Biologics- The Biologics License Application (BLA) Pathway 

The typical steps for obtaining FDA approval of a BLA to market a biologic product in the U.S. include: 

&#8226; 

Completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulations studies under the FDA&#8217;s good laboratory practices regulations; 

&#8226; 

Submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application (IND) for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin and which must include independent Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval at each clinical site before the trials may be initiated; 

&#8226; 

Performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in accordance with Good Clinical Practices to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for each indication; 

&#8226; 

Submission to the FDA of a BLA for marketing the product, which includes, among other things, reports of the outcomes and full data sets of the clinical trials, and proposed labeling and packaging for the product; 

&#8226; 

Satisfactory review of the contents of the BLA by the FDA, including the satisfactory resolution of any questions raised during the review; 

&#8226; 

Satisfactory completion of an FDA Advisory Committee review, if applicable; 

&#8226; 

Satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with Current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) regulations, to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to ensure the product&#8217;s identity, strength, quality and purity; and 

&#8226; 

FDA approval of the BLA, including agreement on post-marketing commitments, if applicable. 

Generally, clinical trials are conducted in three phases, though the phases may overlap or be combined. Phase I trials typically involve a small number of healthy volunteers and are designed to provide information about the product safety and to evaluate the pattern of drug distribution and metabolism within the body. Phase II trials are conducted in a larger but limited 

group of patients afflicted with a particular disease or condition in order to determine preliminary efficacy, dosage tolerance and optimal dosing and to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. Dosage studies are designated as Phase IIA and efficacy studies are designated as Phase IIB. Phase III clinical trials are generally large-scale, multi-center, comparative trials conducted with patients who have a particular disease or condition in order to provide statistically valid proof of efficacy, as well as safety and potency. In some cases, the FDA will require Phase IV, or post-marketing trials, to collect additional data after a product is on the market. All phases of clinical trials are subject to extensive record keeping, monitoring, auditing, and reporting requirements. As indicated above, the Company is pursuing the Biologics License Application (&#8220;BLA&#8221;) process for certain of its micronized products. On July 22, 2014, the Company filed its first IND application with the FDA. In response to the IND application, the FDA agreed the Company had sufficient data to begin a Phase IIB clinical trial of its micronized product for a specified indication of use in anticipation of a BLA, which the Company expects to submit at a future date. The clinical trial is expected to enroll approximately 150 patients in 10 - 20 clinical sites in the U.S. The Company initiated the trial in March of 2015. 

The process of obtaining an approved BLA requires the expenditure of substantial time, effort and financial resources and may take years to complete. The fee for filing a BLA and the annual user fees payable with respect to any establishment that manufactures biologics and with respect to each approved product are substantial. 

See discussion below- &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; under the heading &#8220; Obtaining and maintaining the necessary regulatory approvals for certain products will be expensive and time-consuming and may impede our ability to fully exploit our technologies.&#8221; 

Medical Devices 

Products from our CollaFix product platform are likely to be classified by the FDA as medical devices. Medical Devices are classified as I, II and III in the U.S., with Class II and III requiring either a 510(k) clearance or Premarket Approval (&#8220;PMA&#8221;) from the FDA prior to marketing. Devices deemed substantially equivalent to legally marketed devices are deemed to pose relatively less risk and are deemed Class I and II. Manufacturers are required to submit a premarket notification requesting clearance for commercial distribution. This is known as 510(k) clearance, which indicates that the device is substantially equivalent to devices already legally on the market. Most Class I devices are considered very low risk and are exempted from this requirement. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously 510(k) cleared device or a pre-amendment Class III device for which PMA applications have not been required, are placed in Class III, requiring PMA. Although we may be able to obtain approval for some products through the 510(k) clearance process, in order to fully exploit the CollaFix technology, one or more PMA applications would likely be required. 

Like the process of obtaining an approved BLA, the process of obtaining a PMA requires the expenditure of substantial time, effort and financial resources and may take years to complete. 

FDA Post Market Regulation 

Tissue processors are required to register as an establishment with the FDA. As a registered establishment, we are required to comply with regulations regarding labeling, record keeping, donor eligibility, and screening and testing, process the tissue in accordance with established Good Tissue Practices, and report any adverse reactions attributed to our tissue. Our facilities are also subject to periodic inspections to assess our compliance with the regulations. 

Products covered by a BLA, 510(k) clearance, or a PMA are subject to numerous additional regulatory requirements, which include, among others, compliance with cGMP, which imposes certain procedural, substantive and record keeping requirements, labeling regulations, the FDA&#8217;s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or &#8220;off-label&#8221; uses, and additional adverse event reporting. 

Other Regulation Specific to Tissue Products 

We are accredited by the American Association of Tissue Banks (AATB), which has issued operating standards for tissue banking. Compliance with these standards is a requirement in order to become a licensed tissue bank. In addition, some states have their own tissue banking regulations. 

In addition, procurement of certain human organs and tissue for transplantation is subject to the restrictions of the National Organ Transplant Act (&#8220;NOTA&#8221;), which prohibits the transfer of certain human organs, including skin and related tissue, for valuable consideration, but permits reasonable payment associated with the removal, transportation, implantation, 

processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue and skin. We reimburse tissue banks, hospitals and physicians for their services associated with the recovery, storage and transportation of donated human tissue. 

See discussion below- &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; under the heading " Our business is subject to continuing regulatory compliance by the FDA and other authorities, which is costly and our failure to comply could result in negative effects on our business". 

Fraud, Abuse and False Claims 

We are directly and indirectly subject to various federal and state laws governing relationships with healthcare providers and pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws. In particular, the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for or recommending a good or service for which payment may be made in whole or part under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Penalties for violations include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. In implementing the statute, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (&#8220;OIG&#8221;) has issued a series of regulations, known as the &#8220;safe harbors.&#8221; These safe harbors set forth provisions that, if all their applicable requirements are met, will assure healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable element of a safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by Government enforcement authorities, such as the OIG. Many states have laws similar to the federal law. 

AdvaMed is one of the primary voluntary U.S. trade associations for medical device manufacturers. This association has established guidelines and protocols for medical device manufacturers in their relationships with healthcare professionals on matters including research and development, product training and education, grants and charitable contributions, support of third-party educational conferences, and consulting arrangements. Adoption of the AdvaMed Code by a medical device manufacturer is voluntary, and while the OIG and other federal and state healthcare regulatory agencies encourage its adoption and may look to the AdvaMed Code, they do not view adoption of the AdvaMed Code as proof of compliance with applicable laws. As part of a Company-wide compliance plan, we have incorporated the principles of the AdvaMed Code in our standard operating procedures, sales force training programs, and relationships with health care professionals. Key to the underlying principles of the AdvaMed Code is the need to focus the relationships between manufacturers and healthcare professionals on matters of training, education and scientific research, and limit payments between manufacturers and healthcare professionals to fair market value for legitimate services provided and payment of modest meal, travel and other expenses for a healthcare professional under limited circumstances. We have incorporated these principles into our relationships with healthcare professionals under our consulting agreements, and our policies regarding payment of travel and lodging expenses, research and educational grant procedures and sponsorship of third-party conferences. 

&#32; See discussion below- &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; under the heading &#8220; We and our sales representatives, whether employees or independent contractors, must comply &#32; with various federal and state anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and &#32; similar laws, any breach of which could cause a material adverse effect on our &#32; business, financial condition and results of operations.&#8221; 

Manufacturing (Processing) 

In early 2014, we expanded our production capacity from one location in Kennesaw, Georgia, by adding a second and significantly larger, manufacturing facility within our headquarters building in Marietta, Georgia. Effective January 2014, our main processing operations were relocated to the Marietta, Georgia facility. The Kennesaw facility serves as a secondary processing site. We also perform research and early stage product and process development activities in our Marietta and Kennesaw, Georgia, locations. Stability maintains a facility in San Antonio, Texas for tissue processing. 

We are registered with the FDA as a tissue establishment and are subject to the FDA&#8217;s quality system regulations, state regulations, and regulations promulgated by the European Union. Our facilities are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by regulatory authorities, and may undergo compliance inspections conducted by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies. 

Placental Donation Program 

We have a comprehensive network of hospitals that participate in our placenta donation program. We have a dedicated staff that works at these hospitals, collecting donated placentas from mothers who undergo Cesarean section births and consent to donation. We believe that we will be able to procure an adequate supply of tissue to meet anticipated demand. However, see discussion below- &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; under the heading &#8220; Our products are dependent on the availability of sufficient quantities of tissue from human donors, and any disruption in supply could adversely affect our business." 

Research and Development 

Our research and development group has extensive experience in developing products related to our field of interest, and works to design products that are intended to improve patient outcomes, simplify techniques, shorten procedures, reduce hospitalization and rehabilitation times and, as a result, reduce costs. Clinical trials that demonstrate the safety, efficacy and cost effectiveness of our products are key to obtaining broader reimbursement for our products. In addition to our internal staff, we contract with outside labs and physicians who aid us in our research and development process. See Part II, Item 7 below for information regarding expenditures for research and development in each of the last three fiscal years. 

Environmental Matters 

Our tissue preservation activities generate some chemical and biomedical wastes, consisting primarily of diluted alcohols and acids, and human and animal pathological and biological wastes, including human and animal tissue and body fluids removed during laboratory procedures. The chemical and biomedical wastes generated by our tissue processing operations are placed in appropriately constructed and labeled containers and are segregated from other wastes. We contract with third parties for transport, treatment, and disposal of waste. We strive to remain compliant with applicable laws and regulations promulgated by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and similar state agencies. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 550 employees. We consider our relationships with our employees to be satisfactory. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.mimedx.com . We make available on this website under &#8220;Investors - SEC Filings,&#8221; free of charge, our proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. In addition, we post filings of Forms 3, 4, and 5 filed by our directors, executive officers and ten percent or more shareholders. We also make available on this website under the heading &#8220;Investors - Corporate Governance&#8221; our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charters as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 

The reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of any information contained at that site. 

