 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

All dollar amounts are stated in thousands. 

Overview 

Metabolix is an advanced biomaterials company focused on delivering sustainable solutions to the plastics industry. We have core capabilities in microbial genetics, fermentation process engineering, chemical engineering, polymer science, plant genetics and botanical science, and we have assembled these capabilities in a way that has allowed us to integrate our biotechnology research with real world chemical engineering and industrial practice. In addition, we have created an extensive intellectual property portfolio to protect our innovations which, together with our technology, serves as a valuable foundation for our business. 

Metabolix was formed to leverage the ability of natural systems to produce complex biopolymers from renewable resources. We have focused on a family of biopolymers found in nature called polyhydroxyalkanoates (&#8220;PHAs&#8221;), which occur naturally in living organisms and are chemically similar to polyesters. We have demonstrated the production of our PHAs from pilot to industrial scale and we have sold our PHA products commercially since 2012. 

Our targeted markets offer substantial opportunity for innovation and value creation. Our strategy is based on the performance and differentiation of our materials. We aim to address unmet needs of our customers and leverage the distinctive properties of our proprietary PHA biopolymers to improve critical product qualities of material systems and enable our customers to enhance the value of their products and/or achieve cost savings through their value chains. As such, we are positioning our biopolymers as advanced specialty materials that offer a broad and attractive range of product and processing properties compared to other bioplastics or performance additives. We believe that a substantial global market opportunity exists to develop and commercialize our advanced biopolymer product technology. 

In 2014, we conducted a comprehensive strategic review of our business and decided to focus the Company&#8217;s resources on commercializing PHA performance biopolymers. In connection with this more focused business strategy, in 2014 

we discontinued our operations in Germany and sold substantially all of the assets of our wholly-owned German subsidiary, Metabolix GmbH. We suspended work in a program that was developing processes for producing biobased chemicals from PHAs and we are planning to spin out our crop science program&#8212;a research program focused on crop yield improvement and the production of PHAs in crops using agricultural biotechnology. 

In making this pivot, we took measures to reshape the Company and created a new model for our approach to commercial development of our biopolymers as specialty materials rather than bulk plastics. We are now targeting our research, development and commercial resources on the use of our Mirel &#174; &#32;PHA biopolymers as performance additives in a range of applications where they can improve performance and/or reduce cost in other material systems such as polyvinyl chloride (&#8220;PVC&#8221;) and polylactic acid (&#8220;PLA&#8221;). In PVC additives, we are focusing on opportunities where our PHA biopolymers are used as property modifiers or process aids. We are also targeting applications where the performance, biodegradability, biocontent and other attributes of our PHA biopolymers provide unique functional advantages, such as biodegradation, required by such applications, including PHA resins for molded articles and films, as well as PHA latex and other PHA coatings for paper and cardboard. 

In early 2015, we significantly increased the nameplate capacity at our contracted pilot manufacturing facilities to 600,000 pounds per year of our Mirel PHA biopolymers. In connection with this plan, we entered into multi-year agreements with the operator of our pilot recovery facility and with a toll contractor for fermentation services. The initial focus of this manufacturing plan is production of the Company&#8217;s a-PHA (amorphous, low Tg rubber) biopolymer for use in ongoing development and commercialization activities based on this unique PHA product. We intend to use this new PHA material, together with existing inventory, to support both market development and initial customer conversions as we continue working to build our PHA performance biopolymers business. The capital expansion at our pilot recovery facility was completed in 2015. We anticipate operating our pilot plant at nameplate capacity during 2016. We expect to sell the bulk of this a-PHA material to customers for commercial applications mainly as performance additives for PVC and PLA. We also plan to maintain a stream of a-PHA supply for continued market development with a view to building the base for commercial scale biopolymer operations as we continue evaluating and developing production expansion options. 

Based on our commercial progress in 2015, we are accelerating our efforts to secure our first commercial production line focusing on annual capacity of up to 10 kilo tonnes (KT) or approximately 22 million pounds. Operating at commercial scale would represent a key milestone in establishing a successful specialty biopolymers business. This capacity would also serve as a stepping stone to the establishment of an additional commercial scale production, likely in units of 20 KT, or approximately 44 million pounds. In 2016, we expect to be actively engaged in developing manufacturing options for our first tranche of commercial scale capacity. Our goal is to leverage existing industry assets and capabilities where possible and to secure this capacity in a capital-efficient manner with a manufacturing partner. 

We are focused on building our customer base to support the successful commercial development of our business. To that end, we have intensified our efforts in product and application development and are continuing to enhance our capabilities in this area. We are also working closely with customers across a range of applications to understand the processing and performance profiles for their products, and are pursuing commercial opportunities with customers at various levels of maturity from initial data demonstration and product and process validation, through to larger scale trials, product testing, product qualification and product launch. 

This approach is integral to our specialty materials strategy, where the market opportunities are driven by the important value-adding role our biopolymers can play as components of other material systems or by bringing unique functional advantages such as biodegradability to customer applications. This is a critical area of focus for us and our success depends on working effectively with customers to identify uses and applications for our PHA biopolymers that substantiate the commercial potential for our products. 

In 2015 we continued to work on customer projects across our target applications spaces--PVC processing aids and property modifiers, PLA modification, functional biodegradation and coatings for paper. During the year, we reported initial customer conversions for several smaller customers and we made progress advancing complex development programs for several larger opportunities. We also secured a significant commercial conversion with Kolar Filtration in the area of functional biodegradation. Specifically, we signed a global, exclusive distribution agreement with Kolar for PHA-based denitrification pellets used in ornamental and hobby aquaria, ornamental ponds, fish hatcheries, and commercial aqua farming. In the area of PVC modification, we secured our first commercial order from a new customer for a-PHA used in a PVC flooring application--protective vinyl floor tiles sold in major home improvements stores. In 2016, we will continue to work closely with customers across our target application spaces to successfully complete development programs and to convert them to repeat, commercial sales. 

Our crop science program has been a technically challenging long-term effort, initially directed toward the production of PHA in plant crops. Based on our observations in this research, we began refocusing our crop science program around new genetic and informatics tools and intellectual property for enhancing the photosynthetic capacity of plants. In 2015, we 

launched our refocused crop science program under the name &#8220;Yield10 Bioscience.&#8221; We are seeking to spin out Yield10 into a separately funded venture focused entirely on the further development and commercialization of these technologies, and we have begun talking to potential investors and industry collaborators regarding the opportunity to participate in the venture. We have also named a scientific advisory board to provide technical advice and industry experience to Yield10. 

The Company was successful during 2015 in raising $14,703, net of offering costs, through a private placement of common stock and warrants. Further, on October 7, 2015, the Company entered into a common stock purchase agreement with Aspire Capital Fund, LLC ("Aspire"). Under terms of the agreement, Aspire has committed to purchase up to $20,000 of Metabolix&#8217;s common stock over a 30 month period that began on November 9, 2015. Common stock may be sold to Aspire from time to time at the Company&#8217;s option under pricing formulas based on prevailing market prices around the time of each sale. The Company expects to use the Aspire facility to complement, rather than replace, other financing that may be required to continue the Company's operations and support its capital needs. The timing, structure and vehicles for obtaining future financing are under consideration, but there can be no assurance that such financing efforts will be successful. The Company intends to use the proceeds of its recent and any future financings for general corporate purposes and working capital requirements, including the continued development of its specialty biopolymers business as the foundation for its longer range commercial scale plans and the future growth of its business. 

Recent Developments 

In furtherance of the Company&#8217;s efforts to secure its first tranche of commercial scale specialty PHA manufacturing capacity, in late 2015 and early 2016, Metabolix and CJ CheilJedang Corporation (&#8220;CJ&#8221;) undertook a comprehensive feasibility study and assessment of CJ&#8217;s existing lysine production facility at Fort Dodge, Iowa as a potential site for specialty PHA production. This assessment included the generation of preliminary engineering plans for the modification of existing fermentation assets as well as the construction of a new biopolymer solvent recovery unit on the site. With the successful conclusion of the feasibility study and engineering plans, we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (&#8220;MOU&#8221;) with CJ for a strategic collaboration that would include a commercial manufacturing arrangement for specialty PHAs, including our newly launched amorphous a-PHA biopolymer. Under this non-binding MOU, the companies have agreed to work together toward the successful conclusion of definitive agreements for a collaboration under which CJ will fund, construct and operate a 10 kilo tonne PHA production unit at the Fort Dodge facility based on Metabolix's PHA technology. CJ is finalizing a detailed budget for the capital investment needed to establish the PHA unit at Fort Dodge. Under the contemplated definitive agreements, Metabolix will buy the specialty PHAs produced at the Fort Dodge facility from CJ, and will market and sell the materials to its commercial customers. The companies also expect to define a framework for potential longer term expansion of the collaboration to larger scale PHA production and related commercial activities. The companies will work together over the coming months to complete definitive agreements for the collaboration and hope to have the PHA production unit up and running at Fort Dodge within 18-24 months. However, there can be no assurance that definitive agreements will be concluded on terms satisfactory to the Company, if at all, or that the project can be completed in the indicated timeframe. 

Our Technology and Core Capabilities 

We believe we have one of the most advanced capabilities to perform metabolic pathway engineering in the world and that we are skilled in our ability to integrate the biotechnology we develop into large scale industrial production processes to support manufacturing of our PHA biopolymers. In particular, we believe we have unique capabilities with respect to harnessing the metabolic pathways involved in the production of a wide range of bioplastic monomers and the ability to polymerize, accumulate and harvest these bioplastics from living cells. We are also continuing to develop key capabilities in the areas of biopolymer product development and customer focused applications development and technical support. 

We have demonstrated that our technology and core capabilities enable us to: 

&#8226; 

design and engineer living organisms to perform a series of chemical reactions that convert a feedstock to an end product in a highly efficient and reliable manner; 

&#8226; 

integrate those organisms into reliable, large scale industrial fermentation processes; 

&#8226; 

develop highly efficient recovery technology to separate the end product from the fermentation broth; 

&#8226; 

tailor the properties of our end product to suit customer needs; 

&#8226; 

develop new applications and commercial opportunities for these products; 

&#8226; 

develop new formulations and compounds based on these products; and 

&#8226; 

provide sales and technical support to our customers who use these products. 

Product Development Process 

Biology and Genetic Engineering 

We have identified and chromosomally inserted into organisms a series of genes to produce several enzymatic proteins, and have done so in such a way that they are expressed to execute a series of reactions in a balanced manner to produce PHAs with controlled structures and performance as the end-product of interest. We believe that we have advanced capabilities based on over 20 years of development, taking early stage gene/pathway discovery through the entire development and scale-up process and final implementation of that technology at commercial scale using robust industrial microbial production systems. We believe these capabilities enable us to produce specialty PHA biopolymers with unique properties. 

Industrial Fermentation Process Engineering 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;We have tightly integrated our fermentation scale-up research capabilities with our genetic engineering capabilities to create a feedback loop where data from fermentation experiments inform microbial design and where microbial engineering approaches can guide the fermentation group to structure the optimal protocols (recipes) for running fermentations. Based on this technology we have demonstrated the ability to produce a range of different biopolymers on a common fermentation platform. 

Chemical Process Engineering for Biopolymer Recovery 

Another element of our product development process involves process chemistry and chemical engineering to separate the biopolymer from the biological cell material once fermentation is complete. We have a dedicated team that has developed a proprietary process for recovery of PHA biopolymer. That process produces PHA biopolymer at a high level of purity without damaging the structure of the polymer and has operated effectively at a commercial scale. We have successfully demonstrated our ability to efficiently isolate the range of polymers necessary to meet and expand our range of target applications. These polymers can be routinely produced free from cell debris and processed into high quality biomaterials. 

Polymer Science and Product Development 

In the area of biopolymers, our product development process involves tailoring polymer properties and polymer blends to provide the desired end product properties and meet the processing requirements for specific customer applications. During 2015 we further expanded our capabilities and facilities to evaluate PHAs as modifiers and process aids in targeted PVC and PLA applications. We also upgraded facilities to develop functional biodegradation products with controlled degradation profiles based on specific customer application needs. Our product development team has considerable expertise in polymer science and to date has developed advanced formulation and processing technology for a wide variety of customer applications and processing methods. We are continuing to work with customers and channel partners to optimize our polymers and polymer formulations as we commercialize our products in target applications. 

In summary, we believe we have successfully integrated capabilities in biology, genetics, fermentation process engineering, chemical engineering and polymer science to provide high value biobased and biodegradable polymer solutions for customers. We believe this integrated set of capabilities will be a source of competitive advantage as our business develops. 

Business Strategy 

Our goal is to build a commercially successful specialty biopolymers business, with attractive margins, based on the unique properties of our PHA biopolymers. To achieve this goal, we are developing and commercializing biopolymers in a range of applications. We believe this will lead to attractive commercial opportunities for the Company, create value for our business and our customers and generate leading intellectual property positions in the field. 

Key elements of our strategy include: 

Proprietary Biopolymers and Biopolymer Formulations. Our strategy is to deliver solutions to customers in specialized market segments that can be served competitively by the distinctive properties of our biopolymers and biopolymer 

formulations. Our biopolymer products may be biobased or biodegradable, or both, and will be used where their unique physical properties and processing capabilities provide a competitive advantage. Through several years of interaction with customers, we have developed biopolymers and biopolymer formulations suitable for a variety of applications and processing methods. We are now focusing on developing biopolymers as performance additives, property modifiers or processing aids for existing polymer systems such as PVC, PVC recyclate and PLA. In these high value applications our PHA technology may enhance processing, properties and performance of PVC and recycled PVC, as well as increase performance of PLA while retaining clarity, biocontent and compostability of the resulting material. We are also targeting applications where the performance, biodegradability, biocontent and other attributes of our PHA biopolymers provide unique functional advantages, such as biodegradation, required by such applications, including PHA latex and other PHA coatings for paper and cardboard, and PHA resins for films and molded articles. 

Managing Existing Inventory. &#32;We expect to work closely with core customers to provide them with access to existing inventory acquired from Telles, our former joint venture with Archer Daniels Midland Company ("ADM"), as well as newly produced amorphous PHA material from our pilot facilities, until a commercial scale supply chain is established. In the near term, we plan to focus our existing inventory and pilot amorphous PHA biopolymer material on initial customer conversions in targeted, high value applications for our PHA biopolymers and on ongoing product development activities. 

Matching Manufacturing Capacity to Customer Demand. &#32;We completed a capital project in 2015 to expand our pilot recovery operations to an annual nameplate capacity of 600,000 pounds of amorphous PHA biopolymer. In conjunction with this expansion, we secured a contract with a U.S. fermentation supplier for supply of fermentation broth. In the second half of 2015, we began taking delivery of fermentation broth at our expanded pilot recovery facility and continued to ramp up capacity into the end of the year. We expect to operate the pilot plant at nameplate capacity in 2016 and use the material to supply commercial customers as well as to provide a stream of material to continue to initiate and advance customer development projects. 

Transitioning to the Specialties Commercial Launch Phase. &#32;&#32;With increasing clarity on customer conversions and confidence in market development, we are accelerating our efforts to secure our first tranche of commercial scale manufacturing capacity for our amorphous PHA biopolymer materials. We are actively engaged in developing manufacturing options for our first tranche of commercial-scale production capacity as this is a key element of the supply chain necessary to support our longer-term business strategy. We are targeting the establishment of up to 10 KT of production capacity as a first step in commercial scale production to support our specialties strategy. Our goal is to move quickly, leverage existing industry assets and capabilities where possible and to secure the capacity in a capital-efficient way with a production partner. The capacity may be accomplished in stages, depending on the specific infrastructure available and optimal project structure. Securing capacity at this level is expected to enable a-PHA biopolymer product sales that will partially offset our operating costs and helps to establish the business base for expanded operations as we continue working to build a commercially successful specialty biopolymers business. 

Market Positioning and Technical Support. &#32;We have focused our technical and business development team on support of existing customers and development of the prospective customer base for our PHA biopolymers. We are positioning our biopolymers as premium priced, specialty materials that are also environmentally attractive relative to petroleum-based polymers and lower performance bioplastics. These efforts are directed at managing a pipeline of customer opportunities across a range of applications, and we are working to build strong customer relationships and committed demand for our PHA biopolymers as we establish the supply chain required to support the demand. 

Microbial Research and Process Development. &#32;We have identified and continue to develop opportunities to improve our PHA strains and our fermentation and recovery processes. We believe significant reductions in the operating and capital cost of PHA production, as well as meaningful advances in PHA biopolymer properties and performance, can be achieved as we successfully exploit these opportunities. We believe our technology is robust and we expect to be able to successfully transfer improvements from microbial research and process development to commercial scale production. 

Leading Intellectual Property Position. &#32;We have built a patent estate around our platform technologies and a variety of inventions relevant to the commercialization of PHA biopolymers. We continue to extend this patent estate within our core business and around other commercial opportunities in the areas of biopolymers, chemicals and crops. We have licensed our technology, and where appropriate, we will continue to explore opportunities to license our technology to others as a way to advance our business strategy or capitalize on our technology both within and outside our targeted areas of interest. 

Advancing Crop Biotechnology. &#32;We believe we are pioneering innovative technologies for introducing multigene traits and enhanced carbon efficiency into plants through the research we are pursuing in Yield10 Bioscience. We believe these technologies have the potential to significantly increase the yield in food, feed and biomass crops. We are planning to spin out 

this activity into a separately funded venture focused entirely on further development and commercialization of these technologies and have begun talking with potential investors and agriculture industry collaborators about participation in the venture. 

Market Opportunity 

Our target markets and product applications offer substantial opportunity for innovation and value creation. In certain applications, we can position our PHA biopolymers as biobased performance additives that contribute biocontent, while improving the overall performance of material systems. In other applications, our PHA biopolymers can be used to replace conventional plastics based on market drivers for renewable and biodegradable materials that have the potential to reduce the use of petroleum-based feedstocks and decrease plastic pollution in the environment. To that end, we are targeting our resources on the use of our PHA biopolymers as performance additives in a range of applications where they can improve performance and or reduce cost in other material systems such as PVC and PLA. We are also targeting applications where the performance, biodegradability, biocontent and other attributes of our PHA biopolymers provide unique functional advantages, such as biodegradation, required by such applications, including PHA latex and other PHA coatings for paper and cardboard, and PHA resins for films and molded articles. 

The Plastics Market 

The world's annual consumption of plastic materials has increased from around 5 million metric tons in the 1950s to nearly 311 million metric tons in 2014. Plastics are durable, lightweight and useful in a broad range of applications from packaging to engineering-grade automotive materials, driving continued growth in the plastics market. A majority of these plastics are made from fossil feedstocks, including crude oil and natural gas. 

According to Global Industry Analysts, Inc., the global market for PVC is an estimated 39 million metric tons produced annually. PVC is a versatile polymer used in a broad range of applications including construction materials, wire and cable and medical disposables. Significant amounts of additives are used in PVC formulations (typically 20-40% of the formulation) to improve processing, plasticization and performance. Based on industry studies, the property modifier and process aid segment of the current global PVC represents approximately 4.1% of the PVC market based weight or approximately 3.5 billion pounds per annum with and aggregate market value of approximately $6 billion annually according to management estimates based on these market studies. 

The Freedonia Group cites consumer preferences for more sustainable materials and improved performance of bioplastic resins and commodity plastics produced from biobased sources as key factors driving the use and growth of bioplastics, which includes both non-biodegradable plastics such as PET with increased biocontent as well as biodegradable plastics. According to Freedonia, global demand for biobased and biodegradable plastics will grow 19 percent annually to 950,000 metric tons in 2017. Through 2017, starch-based bioplastics and PLA will account for the majority of biodegradable bioplastic demand, followed by other biobased plastics, such as PHA/PHB, cellulose, polybutylene succinate ("PBS") and fossil fuel-based biodegradable plastics, representing approximately 40 percent of global bioplastic demand. According to the German-based research firm nova-Institut, the global production of PLA is currently 180,000 tons per annum and is expected to reach 800,000 tons per annum by 2020. We believe our PHA performance additives for PLA can improve the performance of PLA in a range of potential applications, thereby expanding the market potential for PLA. 

It is well established that most fossil feedstock-based plastics do not biodegrade in the environment. Instead, they congest landfills and pollute the land, waterways and oceans. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, an estimated 32 million tons of plastic entered the U.S. municipal solid waste stream in 2011. It is estimated that approximately 10.5 percent of landfill weight is plastics. In addition, every year approximately 225,000 tons of plastic waste ends up in the world's oceans. We believe our PHA biopolymers, which have excellent biodegradation profiles in composting, soil and marine environments, can contribute to new and alternative waste management solutions. 

Biopolymers Platform 

Overview 

We are focused on building a commercially successful specialty polymers business, with attractive margins, based on the unique properties of our PHA biopolymers. We are targeting market opportunities driven by the important value-adding role our biopolymers can play as components of other material systems. Our commercial development activities have focused on our target application spaces of PVC processing aids and property modifiers, PLA modification, functional biodegradation and paper coating. We are intensifying our efforts in product and application development and working closely with customers across a range of applications at various stages in the development process, from initial data demonstration, through product and process validation, larger scale trials, product qualifications and ultimately commercial purchase decisions. While we work to execute these elements of our strategy, we are managing our existing inventory of PHA biopolymers and our production of new pilot materials to support these development and commercialization efforts, and we are accelerating our efforts to secure commercial scale production as we gain clarity on customer conversions and confidence in market development. 

Former Alliance with Archer Daniels Midland Company 

Mirel biopolymers were produced successfully at industrial scale for two years under the Telles joint venture with ADM that was in effect from 2004 through 2011. The product was produced at very high quality and in a targeted range of grades suited to different customer uses. In 2015, we successfully deployed our latest amorphous PHA technology into pilot scale production, and we are using this new pilot material, together with inventory we acquired in connection with the dissolution of the ADM alliance, to support our ongoing commercial and development efforts in select target application spaces. 

Target Application Spaces for Metabolix Biopolymers 

Although we believe there are significant opportunities across many markets and applications, we are initially focusing our commercialization efforts on select application spaces where we think the performance, biodegradability, biocontent and other properties of our PHA biopolymers are a good fit. These are: 

&#8226; 

Performance modifiers and process aids for PVC; 

&#8226; 

Performance modifiers for PLA; 

&#8226; 

Coatings for paper and cardboard; and 

&#8226; 

Functional biodegradation (e.g., resins and compounds for films and molded articles for controlled in-situ biodegradation). 

We believe these application spaces have unmet needs that can be addressed with our PHA materials. Our biopolymers can enable improved performance qualities and/or reduced cost when used as an additive and blended with other polymers such as PVC and PLA. In addition, certain applications have the need or a preference for materials that are biobased and biodegradable either for branding value, because of regulatory requirements or because biodegradability offers a useful property such as new end-of-life solutions like soil or marine biodegradation, composting or anaerobic digestion. We are engaged in focused product and application development activities in these segments. We are working with potential customers to determine their specific needs and develop end-use markets, and we are in the process of qualifying our materials for certain customer applications. 

Performance Additives 

We are developing PHA biopolymers as performance additives. Metabolix biopolymer resins are either miscible or highly compatible as a dispersed modifier with a broad range of biobased and petroleum-based materials and can improve a range of performance attributes such as toughness, barrier properties, processability and flexibility through blending with these materials. We are initially focused on developing polymeric modifiers for PVC, a plastic with diverse uses ranging from construction materials to medical applications. Compounded PVC products are typically formulated with significant amounts of additives, which are used to make the PVC compound suitable for its end-use application, improve the processability of the PVC compound and enhance the performance of the PVC article. 

We are developing biobased polymeric modifiers for rigid, semi-rigid and flexible PVC compounds. We have shown that our polymeric modifiers can provide toughness, flexibility and permanence in addition to enhancing processing when added to PVC. For example, we have studies that show our PHA polymeric modifiers have the potential to improve PVC toughness beyond that achievable with leading polymeric modifiers and at the same time serve as a non-migrating, non-phthalate, high molecular weight biobased plasticizer. 

We are working with customers to identify suitable PVC additives applications, which could lead to broader addressable market opportunities for our materials beyond those that focus on biodegradation. Target applications based on customer projects undertaken in 2014 and 2015 include different types of vinyl flooring, roofing membranes, wire and cable jacketing, structural profiles and PVC films. 

We also are working with customers to develop applications that use our PHA performance additives to upgrade the physical properties, processability, and value of PVC recyclate in the production of construction materials containing recycled PVC in place of or in addition to virgin PVC. 

Our PHA materials can provide significant benefits in PVC wood polymer composites and other highly filled systems used for structural profiles. We have shown that at low loading levels PHA can significantly increase the incorporation of wood flour or mineral fillers in the formulation resulting in a significant increase in the mechanical properties of the end-product. We are working with customers to develop commercial opportunities based on this unique attributes of our PHA biopolymers. 

In addition to our efforts in PVC, we are developing PHA polymeric modifiers suitable for enhancing the performance of other polymers. Polylactic acid (PLA) is the leading biobased, compostable polyester on the market today and is used in application areas such as food and consumer product packaging, food service wares, films, thermoform sheets and non-woven textiles. We have conducted significant development work around toughening and enhancing the ductility of PLA with our PHA additives. We believe the ability to address these inherent weaknesses in PLA could significantly expand the application space for PLA, and we have shown that our Mirel amorphous PHA rubber modifiers can improve PLA performance while retaining the clarity, biocontent and compostability of the resulting material. 

From our initial work in PVC and PLA modification, we believe Metabolix has the potential over time to develop a family of polymeric property modifiers that have unique or improved functionality compared to current fossil derived materials, that can be used in a range of material systems including PVC and PLA and that are both biobased and biodegradable. 

Coatings for Paper and Cardboard 

There is a significant need for innovative coatings for paper and cardboard. PHA coatings being developed by Metabolix are derived from renewable feedstocks and, like our other PHA products, can be compostable, marine biodegradable, and anaerobically digestible. We also have generated data showing that our development grade biobased PHA latex coatings possess excellent barrier and adhesive properties and are compatible with the re-pulping operations typically used to recycle paper and corrugated cardboard. We believe there is promising market potential for PHA coated paper and are continuing to develop this application technology and related commercial opportunities. If the developments in this area are successful, potential applications could range from repulpable/recyclable PHA coated paper and cardboard for consumer goods and food packaging to PHA coated paperstock for food service items. 

Marine Biodegradable Micropowders 

&#32;In 2015 we entered into a global, exclusive commercial and technology alliance with Honeywell International, Inc. ("Honeywell") to offer PHA biopolymers under its Honeywell Asensa&#174; product line for use in cosmetics and personal care products. Earlier this year, Honeywell informed us that it is discontinuing its line of Asensa &#174; &#32;personal care additives to refocus its efforts on core applications in the broader additives market. In light of this development, as well as a new U.S. federal law banning the use of plastic microbeads in cosmetics, we are re-evaluating this market. The Company plans to leverage the experience gained in the alliance with Honeywell as we evaluate opportunities for Mirel biopolymers in cosmetics and personal care products. With respect to marine biodegradable microbeads, we plan to take our lead from brand owners and formulators as they work through their strategies for reformulating products for U.S. and international markets in accordance with applicable regulations. We expect this will take some time to sort out in the marketplace, and in the meantime, Honeywell has transitioned to us unused commercial product, R&#38;D results and customer contacts. 

Functional Biodegradation 

Our biopolymers are unique biobased materials for applications requiring functional biodegradation. Since PHAs are produced naturally in living organisms such as microbes, our PHA biopolymers can be biodegraded by similar microbes present in ambient environments such as soil and water. Our biopolymers can also be formulated or compounded with other biodegradable polymers to provide customers with customized product performance and controlled biodegradation tailored for specific applications and environments such as soil or water. 

The soil biodegradability profile of PHA makes our products uniquely suited for resins used to produce biodegradable films and parts for horticultural and agricultural uses. Applications such as plant pots, vine clips, sod netting and agricultural film have a strong need for soil biodegradability like that offered by Mirel biopolymers. In these applications, the natural biodegradation process for our PHA biopolymers in the soil can provide a sustainable alternative to conventional plastics and save labor and other costs related to their disposal. 

Like all other PHA materials, the marine biodegradability profile of Mirel biopolymers is unmatched in the industry as compared to other commercially available biodegradable materials such as PLA, PBAT or PBS. Mirel biopolymer resins biodegrade in the marine environment due to microbial activity, which makes them particularly suitable for the production of marine and aquatic biodegradable films and parts. Metabolix has worked on several projects with government agencies and universities to validate the use of Mirel biopolymers in shoreline applications. 

Studies have noted that the world's oceans show increasing levels of persistent plastic particles of a size ingestible by marine creatures at the bottom of the food chain. Larger plastic items are also accumulating in substantial quantities in certain parts of the ocean, and marine birds and mammals have been found dead from ingesting or getting tangled in plastic debris. Mirel biopolymers allow brand owners the opportunity to offer a product that will biodegrade if inadvertently released into the environment or in applications where in-situ &#32;marine biodegradation is a key attribute such as erosion control and shoreline restoration. 

Metabolix expects to continue working with customers on a variety of other applications where biodegradation of the polymer is a performance requirement. We have also worked with customers to develop pond water and aquarium water denitrification treatment systems based on the biodegradation and microbial activity of our biopolymers. In 2015, we signed a global, exclusive distribution agreement with Kolar Filtration to market and promote Metabolix PHA-based denitrification pellets for water treatment applications. This agreement streamlines the process for compounding and supplying finished product to established customers focused on ornamental and hobby aquaria, and we expect Kolar to expand the use of PHA-based denitrification into larger scale applications including fresh water ponds, hatcheries and commercial aqua farming. 

The Value Proposition for Metabolix Biopolymers 

Our strategy is based on the performance of our materials. With proprietary biopolymer formulations we aim to address unmet needs of our customers and leverage the distinctive properties of our PHAs to improve critical product qualities that enable our customers to enhance the value of their products and/or achieve cost savings through their value chain. 

As such, we are positioning our Mirel biopolymers as specialty materials that offer a broad and attractive range of performance and processing properties compared to other bioplastics and performance additives. Our Mirel biopolymers can be used to deliver biobased content in an end use application, as an additive or modifier to improve performance of other polymers including conventional plastics (e.g. PVC) or other bioplastics (e.g., PLA) and/or to deliver the required biodegradation profile of an end use application. 

We believe our Mirel biopolymers are differentiated and offer unique benefits in end use applications because of the following factors: 

Biobased Content. Our Mirel PHA biopolymers products are produced using fermentation which converts industrial sugar (a biobased feedstock) into PHA biopolymer. Our biobased polymers can be used in neat form, or can be combined with other polymers to make plastic formulations and compounds with targeted amounts of biocontent. This can be a key factor in material selection by an end-use customer. 

Biodegradability. Mirel biopolymers are available with a range of biodegradation profiles. For example, our PHA biopolymers will biodegrade due to microbial activity in a wide variety of conditions, including home and industrial compost systems, soil, anaerobic environments such as anaerobic digesters and septic systems, and marine and fresh water environments. The rate and extent of biodegradability will depend on the specific ingredients included in the particular Mirel 

biopolymer formulation, the size and shape of the articles made from our Mirel biopolymers as well as the specific end-of-life environment. However, like all bioplastics and organic matter, Mirel biopolymers are not designed to biodegrade in conventional, non-active landfills. Many plastics marketed as &#8220;biodegradable&#8221; will only degrade under certain industrial composting conditions. 

Performance Enhancement. Our PHA biopolymers possess unique chemistries that make them useful as additives or modifiers to improve the performance, properties and processing of other polymer materials including PVC, PVC recyclate, and PLA. While biocontent and biodegradability are not the drivers of enhanced performance, they are added benefits for those end use applications where improved performance is required and biobased content and/or biodegradability is desired. 

Physical Properties. Mirel biopolymers possess a particularly broad range of physical properties, which makes them suitable for applications requiring hard/stiff polymers as well as those requiring soft/flexible polymers. 

Processability. Our PHA biopolymers can be processed in many types of existing conventional polymer conversion processes typically used for petroleum-based plastic, which makes them suitable for applications requiring molded parts, films, thermoformed parts, coatings, fibers and non-wovens, among others. 

Upper Service Temperature. Certain Mirel biopolymers will withstand temperatures in excess of 100 0 &#32;C, i.e., the boiling point of water, an important threshold. Some formulations of Mirel biopolymers can withstand temperatures up to 130 0 &#32;C. 

Resistance to Hydrolysis. While Mirel biopolymers will biodegrade in marine and fresh water environments through natural processes mediated by microbes, they are resistant to chemical hydrolysis with cold or hot water over the intended life span of the product. This is an important feature distinguishing Mirel biopolymers from many other biodegradable polymers where the primary mechanism of degradation is hydrolysis followed by further microbial degradation of the residues. 

Product Form. Our PHA biopolymers can be produced in pellet form (for further processing by customers), in densified form or as a blend with other biobased and/or biodegradable materials. We may also provide our biopolymers in other forms as may be determined by the needs of our customers and their end use applications. 

Biobased and Biodegradability Certification 

Mirel biopolymers in neat form have the advantage in the marketplace of being both biobased and biodegradable while having comparable functional properties to petroleum-based polymers. However, because there is sometimes confusion about the use of the terms "biobased" and "biodegradable" in the marketplace, we conform to the following industry guidelines when making these claims. 

We certify our biopolymer resin products individually based on their specific composition and formulation. We sell certain Mirel biopolymers that have received the Vin&#231;otte certifications of "OK Biodegradability Soil" for natural soil biodegradability, "OK Biodegradability Water" for fresh water biodegradability, "OK Compost" for compostability in an industrial composting unit, and "OK Compost Home" for compostability in home composting systems. Vin&#231;otte is the recognized European authority on materials inspection, certification, assessments and technical training. In addition to the Vin&#231;otte certifications, certain Mirel biopolymers have been certified compostable by the Biodegradable Products Institute ("BPI"), an independent North American certifier of compostable material. BPI certification shows that Mirel biopolymers comply with the specifications established in the American Society for Testing and Materials standard ASTM D6400 for composting in a professionally managed composting facility. 

Regulatory Requirements 

In connection with expanded pilot scale manufacturing of our new amorphous PHA material, Metabolix made submissions in 2015 to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") for a Premanufacturing Notice (PMN) in support of commercial sale of the product. As of October 2015, manufacturing of amorphous PHA product in the pilot facility was proceeding under a PMN granted by the EPA, and at the end of that month, we filed a Notice of Commencement which is required by the EPA within 30 days of first commercial manufacture. 

Some applications for which Mirel biopolymers may be suitable, such as food packaging, and food service items, involve food contact, which, in the United States, is regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). The FDA process for food contact requires the submittal of a dossier, which is made up of a number of extraction studies conducted under specific guidelines. 

Certain Mirel products have been cleared by the FDA for use in food contact applications. The conditions of use range from frozen food storage to hot filled or pasteurized to boiling water up to 100&#176;C, including microwave reheating. These products are suitable for a wide range of food service and packaging applications including paper coatings, bags, cups, trays, squeeze bottles and injection molded parts like caps, closures and disposable items such as forks, spoons, knives, tubs, trays and hot cup lids. The clearance also includes products such as housewares, cosmetics and medical packaging. 

Based on the potential for the use of our new amorphous PHA grades in applications requiring Food Contact Approval from the FDA, Metabolix has initiated contact with the agency to define the path forward for U.S. food contact application submission. Given the market opportunity and interest in food contact from customers in Europe, Metabolix also expects to make European regulatory submissions in 2016. 

Sustainability Trends and Related Opportunities for Metabolix Biopolymers 

The market for products with attributes of environmental responsibility or sustainability is an emerging business opportunity. We believe that numerous producers are positioning products as environmentally responsible or environmentally preferable to gain a commercial advantage as consumer preferences shift in this direction. In addition we have seen regulatory actions, such as bans, taxes, subsidies, mandates and initiatives, encouraging substitution of renewable and sustainable materials for petroleum-based incumbents. Regulatory actions or the anticipation of such actions, can provide additional motivation for producers to introduce sustainable materials in their products. While consumer preferences and the regulatory framework governing sustainable products is difficult to predict and largely beyond our control, we believe these trends present an interesting market opportunity for our biobased, biodegradable Mirel PHA biopolymers. 

Plastic Industry Landscape 

The plastics market is large, with many established players. The market has grown around the chemical processing of oil and natural gas, and is concentrated in the conventional, non-biodegradable petroleum-based segment. 

Established companies in this segment include BASF, Braskem, Dow Chemical, DuPont, Ineos, LyondellBasell, Mitsubishi Chemical, Lotte and SABIC among many others. Many of these companies produce petroleum based bulk plastics as well as specialty additives that are used to modify and/or enhance the performance of bulk plastics. 

Specialty additives include a variety of polymeric additives, process aids and property modifiers that are used to modify critical properties or enhance processing of bulk commodity plastics. Examples include rubber modifiers used to toughen bulk plastics for certain applications, high molecular weight process aids that improve processing of other polymers as well as high molecular weight compatibilizers used in composite materials such as mineral filled plastics. The most relevant competitive materials to specialty PHA additives are specialty high molecular weight acrylic modifiers, specialty terpolymers and copolyesters that are used as property modifiers and process aids in other bulk polymers, including PVC and PLA. These materials are typically offered by specialty materials divisions within the established chemical and materials companies including Dow Chemical, DuPont, Arkema, DSM and Mitsubishi Chemical, among others. 

The price of conventional bulk petroleum-based plastic is volatile, as it is dependent on petroleum as a key manufacturing input. The specialty polymeric additives are typically priced based on value-in-use and therefore less sensitive to petroleum inputs. Given their unique properties and composition, these materials do not compete directly on price with alternative offerings that may fulfill a similar but not identical function and typically have different chemical structure. 

A few companies, such as DuPont, DSM, Arkema and Braskem, have taken steps toward production of plastics based on renewable resources and are commercializing conventional plastics that use building blocks derived from renewable resources as components. However, these products are generally not biodegradable. Other producers of petroleum-based plastics, including BASF and Lotte, now produce certain petrochemical based plastics that are biodegradable in industrial compost environments, but are otherwise persistent in the environment and are still subject to the volatility of oil and natural gas prices. 

Within the biodegradable, biobased plastic segment, there are three distinct technologies: PHA, PLA and starch-based biodegradables. Just as a wide variety of different petroleum-based plastics now serve the needs of the market; we believe that these three product classes are more complementary than competitive. We believe Mirel PHA biopolymers offer a broad range of properties and processing options, and can address numerous opportunities for environmentally attractive alternatives to conventional petroleum-based plastics. We further believe Mirel PHA biopolymers offer unique properties that make them well suited as specialty additives for use as PVC property modifiers and process aids, PLA performance enhancers and in PHA based paper coatings. Unlike PLA and most starch-based composite biodegradables, Mirel biopolymers can: 

&#8226; 

biodegrade in natural soil and water environments, including the marine environment; 

&#8226; 

biodegrade in either industrial or home composting environments; 

&#8226; 

remain functional through a wide range of temperatures; and 

&#8226; 

do not break down in everyday use. 

Companies active in PHA plastics include Bio-on, EcoMann, Kaneka, Mango Materials, Meredian, Newlight Technologies, Tianan, and Tianjin Green Biomaterials. The key players in PLA and starch-based biodegradable plastics include Biome, Corbion, Mitsui Chemical, NatureWorks, Novamont and Teijin. Corbion, the leading producer of lactic acid, has announced its intention to forward integrate into PLA. Our PHA biopolymers can be blended with many of these materials to improve their performance and other characteristics. In addition, there are companies that compound blends of various materials, including bioplastics. 

Status of Yield10 Bioscience 

Metabolix has been conducting a research program in crop science for more than 14 years with the intent to harness the renewable nature of plants to produce renewable bioplastics, chemicals and bioenergy from crops. Historically, the focal point of our crop technology efforts has been around creating proprietary systems to produce PHB, the simplest member of the PHA family of biopolymers, in high concentration in the leaves of biomass crops or in the seeds of oilseed crops for these applications. 

Our crop science program has been a technically challenging long term effort. As we succeeded in increasing the levels of PHB produced in plants, we saw that this increase in PHB production typically resulted in impaired plant growth. This result is not unexpected, as we were diverting a significant fraction of the carbon fixed by the plants into the PHB, which represents a new carbon sink. Given these observations and our longer-term goal to develop commercially viable PHB-producing switchgrass and the industrial oilseed Camelina, we began developing new genetic and informatics tools and capturing intellectual property around enhancing the photosynthetic capacity of plants. Early success in this area led us to expand our thinking, as fixing more carbon through enhanced photosynthesis is core to improved crop yield and global food security. In general plants can be divided into two groups based on the type of photosynthesis system they use. The simplest type of photosynthesis system is known as C3 photosynthesis and is found in most of the food crops we eat including rice, wheat, soybean, potato etc. and the second type is a more complex form known as C4 photosynthesis because these plants have evolved a unique cellular structure to further concentrate carbon dioxide through the C4 pathway for the RUBISCO enzyme. C4 photosynthesis plants include corn, sugarcane and oil palm and can have up to 5 times higher yield than C3 photosynthesis plants. This yield difference achieved through evolution is why plant scientists believe it is biologically possible to further increase photosynthesis in C3 crops. Using the computational methods and technology developed in our PHB-focused crop science program we have observed increased plant photosynthesis, leading to increases in biomass, seed yield, starch and oil content. 

&#160; 

&#32;In 2015, we refocused our crop science program with a new mission and launched it under the name &#8220;Yield10 Bioscience.&#8221; We are working to spin out Yield10 into a separately funded venture focused entirely on further development and commercialization of these technologies and have begun speaking to potential investors and agriculture industry collaborators regarding the opportunity to participate in the venture. 

&#160; 

Yield10 Bioscience is developing proprietary, breakthrough technologies to improve yield in major crops based on our &#8220;T3&#8221; transcriptome targeted metabolic engineering platform. We are focused on technologies that allow us to increase the efficiency of CO 2 &#32;fixation through photosynthesis and its conversion into plant matter. We have shown early, encouraging yield improvements in camelina seed and switchgrass biomass production, and we are working to advance the technology in agriculturally significant crops and provide innovative new solutions for enhanced global food security. 

&#160; 

Yield10 is leveraging the microbial diversity found in nature to increase carbon fixation and eliminate bottlenecks in plant carbon metabolism, and has developed an engineering systems approach under the T3 platform targeted at step change improvements in crop yield. With this approach, Yield10 is working to deploy a series of proprietary gene systems to increase carbon capture and fixation in C3 plants. Early greenhouse and field trial data show a significant increase in seed yield in camelina, an industrial oil seed crop. Additional field trials are planned to confirm the initial results in camelina, and these gene systems are now being inserted into soybean, canola and rice for evaluation. 

Yield10 is also targeting yield improvement in crops utilizing the C4 photosynthetic system such as switchgrass, sugarcane, corn and sorghum. Yield10 has leveraged the transcriptome targeting module of its T3 platform to identify three novel global transcription factor (GTF) genes in the bioenergy crop switchgrass that result in increased photosynthesis, increased central metabolism and an overall increase in biomass yield. We have identified corresponding genes in both C3 and C4 food and feed crops, and are currently testing these genes in sugarcane and exploring partnerships to advance the technology in corn. 

Although this research is at an early stage, we believe it may have applicability to a range of food, feed and biomass crops where there is a focus on improving crop yield. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts in this area will be successful or that we will be able to develop and implement suitable business arrangements for the spin out of this activity. 

Intellectual Property 

Our continued success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. 

As of December 31, 2015, we owned approximately 330 issued patents and approximately 89 pending patent applications worldwide, and we have licensed from third parties approximately five issued patents and patent applications worldwide. Our extensive patent portfolio covers, among other things, fundamental biotechnology used to produce Mirel biopolymers as well as a range of biobased chemicals, biopolymer compositions, processes and derived products. Our intellectual property portfolio includes patents directed to compositions of polymers, genes, vectors, expression systems in plants and microbes, polymer compositions of matter and formulations, devices, coatings and films, as well as methods of manufacture and use. Our patents are set to expire at various times between 2016 and 2032. 

In 2015, we filed 23 patent applications worldwide including applications for four new inventions. The applications filed covered genetically modified microbial strains for making biobased chemicals and PHAs from methane or methanol substrates, PHA additives for improved recycling of polymers and PHA additives for producing highly filled polymer formulations. 

We were also granted or allowed 23 patent applications in 2015, seven in the U.S. and sixteen internationally. The inventions covered under these patents include PHA latex technology, PHA crosslinking technology, production of C5 chemicals as well as poly-5-hydroxyvalerate PHA from microorganisms using renewable materials as feed substrates and toughened PLA/PHA blends for film applications. We continue to seek and evaluate new technologies and related intellectual property that might enhance our Company's business competitiveness. 

Our registered U.S. trademarks include Metabolix , Mirel , the Metabolix four-leaf design, the Mirel heart-leaf design, and Bio-Industrial Evolution . These marks and certain other trademarks have also been registered in selected foreign countries. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 68 full-time employees. Of those employees, 49 were in research and development and 19 were in sales, marketing and administration. Among our research staff, 14 hold Ph.D.'s and 25 hold masters' or bachelors' degrees in their respective disciplines. Our technical staff has expertise in the following areas: microbial genetics, bioinformatics, metabolic engineering, systems biology, plant genetic engineering, fermentation process engineering, chemical engineering and polymer science and engineering. Most of our employees are located in Massachusetts. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Corporate and Investor Information 

Our company was incorporated in Massachusetts in June 1992 under the name Metabolix, Inc. In September 1998, we reincorporated in Delaware. Financial and other information about our company is available on our website (http://www.metabolix.com). The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered to be part of this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). 

Investors should note that we announce material information to our investors using our website, SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels, as well as social media, to communicate with our shareholders and the public about our Company, our products and other matters. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our Company to review the information we post on the social media channels listed at the top of our website. 

In addition, the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, our filings with the SEC may be accessed through the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. 

