 Item 1. BUSINESS 

Company Background 

Avery Dennison Corporation ("Avery Dennison," the "Company," "Registrant," or "Issuer," which are generally referred to as "we" or "us") was incorporated in Delaware in 1977 as Avery International Corporation, the successor corporation to a California corporation of the same name that had been incorporated in 1946. In 1990, we merged one of our subsidiaries into Dennison Manufacturing Company ("Dennison"), as a result of which Dennison became our wholly-owned subsidiary and in connection with which our name was changed to Avery Dennison Corporation. You can learn more about us by visiting our website at www.averydennison.com. Our website address provided in this Form 10-K is not intended to function as a hyperlink and the information on our website is not, nor should it be considered, part of this report or incorporated by reference into this report. 

Business Overview and Reportable Segments 

Our businesses include the production of pressure-sensitive materials and a variety of tickets, tags, labels and other converted products. Some pressure-sensitive materials are sold to label printers and converters that "convert" the materials into labels and other products through embossing, printing, stamping and die-cutting. Some materials are sold by us in converted form as tapes and reflective sheeting. We also manufacture and sell a variety of other converted products and items not involving pressure-sensitive components, such as fasteners, tickets, tags, radio-frequency identification ("RFID") inlays and tags, and imprinting equipment and related services, which we market to retailers, apparel manufacturers, and brand owners. 

Our reportable segments in 2015 were: 

&#149; Pressure-sensitive Materials ("PSM"); &#149; Retail Branding and Information Solutions ("RBIS"); and &#149; Vancive Medical Technologies&#153; ("Vancive"). In 2015, the PSM and RBIS segments contributed approximately 73% and 26%, respectively, of our total sales. 

In 2015, international operations constituted a substantial majority of our business, representing approximately 74% of our sales. As of January 2, 2016, we operated approximately 180 manufacturing and distribution facilities worldwide and had operations in over 50 countries. 

On July 1, 2013, we completed the sale our Office and Consumer Products ("OCP") and Designed and Engineered Solutions ("DES") businesses to CCL Industries Inc. We continue to be subject to indemnification obligations, including for breaches of certain representations, warranties and covenants, under the terms of the purchase agreement. In addition, the tax liability associated with the sale is subject to completion of tax return filings in the jurisdictions where we operated the OCP and DES businesses. The OCP and DES businesses are reported as discontinued operations in this Form 10-K. 

Pressure-sensitive Materials Segment 

Our PSM segment manufactures and sells Fasson&#174;-, JAC&#174;-, and Avery Dennison&#174;-brand pressure-sensitive label and packaging materials, Avery Dennison&#174;-brand graphics, Avery Dennison&#174;-brand reflective products, Avery Dennison&#174;-brand tapes, and performance polymers (largely used to manufacture pressure-sensitive materials). The business of this segment tends not to be seasonal, except for certain outdoor graphics and reflective products and operations in Europe. Pressure-sensitive materials consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and fabrics, which are coated with company-developed 

and purchased adhesives, and then laminated with specially coated backing papers and films. They are sold in roll or sheet form with either solid or patterned adhesive coatings, and are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties. These label and packaging materials are sold worldwide to label printers and converters for labeling, decorating, fastening, electronic data processing and special applications in the home and personal care, beer and beverage, durables, pharmaceutical, wine and spirits, and food market segments. 

A pressure-sensitive, or self-adhesive, material is one that adheres to a surface by press-on contact. It generally consists of four layers: a face material, which may be paper, metal foil, plastic film or fabric; an adhesive, which may be permanent or removable; a release coating; and a backing material to protect the adhesive against premature contact with other surfaces, which can also serve as the carrier for supporting and dispensing individual labels. When the products are to be used, the release coating and protective backing are removed, exposing the adhesive, and the label or other face material is pressed or rolled into place. 

Because self-adhesive materials are easy to apply without the need for adhesive activation, the use of self-adhesive materials can provide cost savings compared with other materials that require heat- or moisture-activated adhesives. When used in package decoration applications, the visual appeal of self-adhesive materials can help increase sales of the products on which the materials are applied. Self-adhesive materials are also used to convey a variety of variable information, such as bar codes for mailing or weight and price information for packaged meats and other foods. Self-adhesive materials provide consistent and versatile adhesion and are available in a large selection of materials in nearly every size, shape and color. Our graphics and reflective products include a variety of films and other products that are sold to the architectural, commercial sign, digital printing, and other related market segments. We also sell durable cast and reflective films to the construction, automotive, and fleet transportation market segments; and reflective films for traffic and safety applications. We provide sign shops, commercial printers and designers a broad range of pressure-sensitive materials to enable the creation of impactful and informative brand and decorative graphics. We have an array of pressure-sensitive vinyl and specialty materials designed for digital imaging, screen printing and sign cutting applications. 

Our performance tapes products include coated tapes and adhesive transfer tapes that are sold for use in non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems in various industries. These tapes are sold to industrial original equipment manufacturers, converters, and disposable diaper producers worldwide in roll form and are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties. 

Performance polymer products include a range of solvent- and emulsion-based acrylic polymer adhesives, protective coatings and other polymer additives for our internal use, as well as for sale to other companies. 

In the PSM segment, our larger competitors in label and packaging materials include Raflatac, a subsidiary of UPM-Kymmene Corporation; MACTac; Ritrama, Inc.; Flexcon Corporation, Inc.; and various regional firms. For graphics and reflective products, our largest competitors are 3M Company ("3M") and the Orafol Group. For performance tapes, our primary competitors include 3M, Tesa-SE, and Nitto Denko Corporation. We believe that entry of competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive adhesives and materials is limited by technical knowledge and capital requirements. We believe that our technical expertise, relative size and scale of operations, ability to serve our customers with a broad line of quality products and service programs, distribution and brand strength, and new product innovation are among the more significant advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position. 

Retail Branding and Information Solutions Segment 

Our RBIS segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of branding and information solutions to retailers, brand owners, apparel manufacturers, distributors and industrial customers on a 

global basis. The business of this segment tends to be seasonal, with higher volume generally in advance of the spring, fall (back-to-school), and holiday shipping periods. 

The branding solutions of RBIS include creative services, brand embellishments, graphic tickets, tags, and labels, and sustainable packaging. RBIS information solutions include RFID-enabled inventory accuracy, visibility and loss prevention solutions; price ticketing and marking; care, content, and country of origin compliance solutions; and brand protection and security solutions. 

In the RBIS segment, our primary competitors include Checkpoint Systems, Inc., R-pac International Corporation, and SML Group Limited. We believe that our global distribution network, reliable service, product quality and consistency, and ability to serve customers consistently with comprehensive solutions wherever they manufacture are the key advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position. 

Vancive Medical Technologies Segment 

Our Vancive segment is a leader in the development of innovative technologies for medical applications and manufactures an array of pressure-sensitive adhesive materials and products that address the needs of medical device manufacturers, clinicians, and patients for surgical, wound care, ostomy, electromedical, and wearable device applications. Vancive's recent advances include the development of BeneHold TM CHG adhesive, a proprietary adhesive technology providing sustained antimicrobial performance for up to seven days. It can be used in multiple applications in which prevention of infection is a requirement, including vascular access cover dressings. 

Vancive competes with a variety of specialized medical products providers ranging from start-ups to multinational companies. We believe that entry of competitors into the medical solutions business is limited by capital and technical requirements. We believe that our ability to serve our customers with quality, cost-effective and innovative products are among the more significant factors in developing our competitive position. 

Segment Financial Information 

Certain financial information on our reporting segments for fiscal years 2015, 2014, and 2013 appears in Note 15, "Segment Information," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our 2015 Annual Report to Shareholders (our "2015 Annual Report") and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Foreign Operations 

Certain financial information about our sales by geographic area for fiscal years 2015, 2014, and 2013 appears in Note 15, "Segment Information," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our 2015 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Working Capital 

Certain financial information about our working capital for fiscal years 2015, 2014, and 2013 appears in the "Financial Condition" section of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (Part II, Item 7) and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Research and Development 

Many of our current products are the result of our research and development efforts. Our research efforts are directed primarily toward developing new products and operating techniques and improving product performance, often in close association with customers. These efforts include patent and product development work relating to printing and coating technologies, as well as adhesive, release and ink 

chemistries. Additionally, we focus on research projects related to RFID in our RBIS segment and medical technologies in Vancive, for both of which we hold and license a number of patents. 

Our expenses for research and development were $91.9 million in 2015, $102.5 million in 2014, and $96 million in 2013. 

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses 

The loss of individual patents or licenses would not be material to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments individually. Our principal trademarks are Avery Dennison, our logo, and Fasson. We believe these trademarks are strong in the market segments in which our products compete. 

Manufacturing and Environmental Matters 

We use various raw materials &#150; primarily paper, plastic films and resins, as well as specialty chemicals purchased from various commercial and industrial sources &#150; that are subject to price fluctuations. Although shortages can occur from time to time, these raw materials are generally available. 

We produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using water-based emulsion and hot-melt adhesive technologies. Emissions from these operations contain small amounts of volatile organic compounds, which are regulated by federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to minimize these emissions. 

A portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive materials utilizes certain organic solvents which, unless controlled, could be emitted into the atmosphere. Emissions of these substances are regulated by federal, state, local and foreign governments. In connection with the maintenance and acquisition of certain manufacturing equipment, we invest in solvent capture and control units to assist in regulating these emissions. 

We have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems that minimize the use of solvents. Emulsion adhesives, hot-melt adhesives, and solventless and emulsion silicone systems have been installed in many of our facilities. 

Based on current information, we do not believe that the cost of complying with applicable laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position or results of operations. 

For information regarding our potential responsibility for cleanup costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see "Legal Proceedings" (Part I, Item 3) and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (Part II, Item 7). 

Available Information 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are available free of charge on our investor website at www.investors.averydennison.com as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with or furnishing to the SEC. We also make available on our website our (i) Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, (ii) Amended and Restated Bylaws, (iii) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (iv) Code of Conduct, which applies to our directors, officers and employees, (v) Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, (vi) charters of the Audit and Finance, Compensation and Executive Personnel, and Governance and Social Responsibility Committees of our Board of Directors, and (vii) Audit Committee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters. These documents are also available free of charge in 

print to stockholders who request them by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Avery Dennison Corporation, 207 Goode Avenue, Glendale, California 91203. 

