 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Company Overview 

We are a technology-based education company. We offer proprietary curriculum, software systems and educational services designed to facilitate individualized learning for students primarily in kindergarten through 12th grade, or K-12. Our mission is to maximize a child's potential by offering an engaging and effective education, regardless of geographic location or socio-economic background. We provide a continuum of technology-based educational products and solutions to public school districts, public schools, virtual charter schools, private schools and families as we strive to transform a student's learning experience into one that delivers individualized education. In 2013, AdvancEd, a non-profit international accreditation agency for schools and school systems, renewed our five year quality assurance accreditation. 

As an innovator in K-12 online education, we believe we have attained distinctive core competencies that allow us to meet the varied needs of our school customers and students. These core competencies include our ability to create engaging curriculum, train teachers to be effective in online instruction, provide turn-key management services to online schools, customize online learning programs for school districts, develop innovative new offerings, and assist legislators and policy makers in understanding the many dynamics of virtual and blended learning that can complement and transform traditional schools. These factors enable us to provide a unique set of products and services to three lines of business that share many common attributes, including curriculum, learning systems, management expertise, logistical systems and marketing. These lines of business are: Managed Public School Programs, which is comprised of virtual and blended schools (as more fully described below), Institutional business (educational products and services sold to school districts, public schools and other educational institutions that we do not manage), and Private Pay Schools and Other (private schools, including international, for which we charge student tuition and direct consumer sales). 

Managed Public School Programs 

&#160; Institutional &#160; Private Pay Schools and Other &#149; 

Virtual schools &#160; &#149; 

Non-managed Public School Programs &#160; &#149; 

Managed private schools &#149; 

Blended schools &#160; &#149; 

Institutional software and services &#160; &#151;K 12 International Academy &#151;Hybrid schools &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151;George Washington University Online High School &#151;Passport schools &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151;The Keystone School &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#149; 

Independent course sales (Consumer) 

&#149; Managed Public School Programs Our Managed Public School Programs business includes both virtual and blended public schools where a district or independent charter board contracts with K12 to help provide a full-time program of educational products and services. The Managed Public School Programs are programs in which K12 provides substantially all of the management, technology and academic support services in addition to curriculum, learning systems and instructional services. In contrast, Non-managed Public School Programs do not offer primary administrative oversight. In fiscal year 2016, our Managed Public School Programs accounted for approximately 82% of our revenue. 

Virtual Public Schools. In full-time virtual public schools, students receive online lessons over the Internet, utilize offline learning materials that we supply, and receive instruction from state certified teachers. In addition to providing our courses, course materials and, in certain cases, student computers, we also offer these schools a variety of management, technology and academic support services. The majority of our revenue is derived from long-term service agreements with the governing authorities of these virtual public schools. 

Blended Public Schools. In addition to providing services to virtual public schools, we also sell our products and services to blended public schools that combine online and face-to-face instruction in many different arrangements with varying amounts of time spent by students in a physical learning center. 

For both virtual and blended Managed Public School Programs, the governing authority with control over the schools negotiates contractual terms with us for all aspects of the management of the schools, including the creation and implementation of the academic plan, monitoring academic achievement, teacher recruitment and training, student enrollment and marketing, compensation recommendations for school personnel, implementation of student support services, financial and regulatory compliance support, procurement of curriculum, computers and other required services and equipment. The scope of services we provide may also vary in accordance with applicable state regulations and each governing authority's policies. Funding is provided primarily by state governments. For the 2015-16 school year, we provided these turn-key management services to Managed Public School Programs in 33 states and the District of Columbia. 

&#149; Institutional We work closely as partners with a growing number of school districts and individual schools, enabling them to offer their students an array of online education solutions, including full-time virtual and blended programs, semester courses and supplemental educational products. Institutional business includes Non-managed Public School Programs and Institutional software and services where K12 provides curriculum and technology, and the school has an option to contract for instruction or other software and services we provide; however, the Institutional business offerings do not include primary administrative oversight to these programs. In addition to curriculum, systems and programs, we provide teacher training, teaching services and other support services. Our Institutional business customers include public schools, school districts, private schools, charter schools, early childhood learning centers and corporate partners. Additionally, we operate Middlebury Interactive Languages LLC ("MIL"), which was created as a joint venture with Middlebury College to develop and market online foreign language courses (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10). For the 2015-16 school year, we served school districts or individual schools in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, including those where the regulatory environment restricts or prohibits statewide online programs. 

&#149; Private Pay Schools and Other We operate three online private schools: The K 12 International Academy, the George Washington University Online High School and the Keystone School. We also have entered into agreements which 

enable us to distribute our products and services to students from more than 100 countries. We pursue international opportunities where we believe there is significant demand for quality online education. Our principal customers are U.S. students, including those who reside in states where the online public school option is not available, as well as expatriate families and foreign students who wish to study in English. Additionally, our curriculum is sold to end user customers who desire to educate their children outside of the traditional school system or to supplement their child's traditional education. 

We continue to make significant capital investments in our infrastructure and resources intended to improve student academic outcomes, including: (i) the ongoing development and enhancement of our current and next generation curriculum and software; (ii) implementation of a new learning management platform for our high school students; (iii) corporate and school infrastructure to improve scalability, increase data security and privacy, and attain cost savings; (iv) purchase and delivery of student computers and (v) conversion of interactive instructional products to enable delivery through tablets and mobile devices. 

Our History 

We were founded in 2000 to utilize advances in technology to provide children with access to a high-quality public school education regardless of their geographic location or socioeconomic background. Given the geographic flexibility of technology-based education, we believed that the pursuit of this mission could help address the growing concerns regarding the regionalized disparity in the quality of public school education, both in the United States and abroad. The convergence of these factors and rapid advances in Internet networks created the opportunity to make a significant impact by deploying online learning software and systems on a flexible, online platform. 

In September 2001, we introduced our kindergarten through 2nd grade offering in Pennsylvania and Colorado, serving approximately 900 students in the two states combined. We subsequently added new grades and new schools in additional states. We also launched blended public schools that combine face-to-face time in the classroom with online instruction and opened an online private school to reach students worldwide. In school year 2015-16, we served virtual public schools with Managed Public School Programs in 33 states and the District of Columbia, specifically: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming. We also serve schools in all 50 states through our Institutional business. 

Our Market 

The U.S. market for K-12 education is large and online learning is gaining greater acceptance. For example: 

&#149; According to the most recently available data from the 2015 Keeping Pace with K-12 Digital Learning report ("Keeping Pace"), over 50 million students attend K-12 public schools, and nearly five million students are enrolled in private schools. Five states mandate the completion of an online course prior to high school graduation. Full-time virtual charter schools served an estimated 275,000 students who took approximately 3.3 million semester equivalent courses online. Fourteen states have enacted online course choice laws. K12 is a sponsor of Keeping Pace along with 14 other educational organizations, including iNACOL. &#149; The 2015 Keeping Pace report further states that 47% of students in grades 9-12 pursue online learning to access courses not offered at the school, and 43% choose to take courses online to be able to work at their own pace. In addition, 2.2 million K-12 students participated in a formal online learning program. 6 

&#149; In addition, according to a report by National Home Education Research Institute, there are approximately 2.3 million home-educated students in the United States. Many of these students took an online course and a small percentage enrolled in a full-time online program. &#149; According to the National Center for Educational Statistics ("NCES"), a division of the U.S. Department of Education, the public school system alone encompassed more than 98,500 schools and approximately 13,500 districts during the 2012-13 school year. &#149; The NCES estimates that total spending in the K-12 market was projected to be $669 billion for the 2012-13 school year, and that public school spending will increase by 4.5 percent, to $699 billion, by 2022-23. Many parents and educators are seeking alternatives to traditional classroom-based education for a variety of reasons. Demand for these alternatives is evident in the expanding number of choices available to parents and students. For example, from the time we were founded in school year 2000 to school year 2013, the percentage of public school students who attended charter schools increased from 0.7% to 4.6% according to the NCES. According to the 2015 Keeping Pace with K-12 Digital Learning report, there are approximately 6,700 public charter schools operating in 42 states and the District of Columbia with an estimated enrollment of approximately 2.9 million students. Similarly, acceptance of online learning initiatives, including not only virtual and blended public schools, but also online courses, credit recovery, remediation, testing and Internet-based professional development, has continued to grow. Districts are also rapidly adopting online learning to expand course offerings, provide schedule flexibility, increase graduation rates and lower the cost of delivering education. 

Demand for Education Alternatives: The Market Opportunity and the K12 Solutions 

As evidenced by the varying options being utilized by K-12 students, no single educational model works equally well for all students. Children today utilize technology in all aspects of their lives, and we expect them to extend their use of technology to their educational needs and choices. Our business is modeled on the premise that every student has the right to an education that is individualized and available anywhere that meets each student's unique needs. We also believe all students can benefit from more engaging educational content. 

We anticipate that full-time virtual schools will meet the needs of a small percentage of the overall K-12 student population, but do represent and will continue to represent a large and growing opportunity in absolute terms. Across our educational programs, families come from a broad range of social, economic and academic backgrounds. Like most parents, they share the desire for individualized instruction to maximize their children's potential. Examples of students for whom this solution may fit include, but are not limited to, families with: (i) students seeking to learn at their own pace in a way that better accommodates their individual needs; (ii) students with safety, social and health concerns about their local school; (iii) students with disabilities who are seeking alternatives to traditional classrooms; (iv) students for whom the local public school is not meeting their needs; (v) students who seek or need greater flexibility than other alternatives, such as student-athletes and performers who are not able to attend regularly-scheduled classes; (vi) college-bound students who want to bolster their college readiness and application appeal by taking additional Advanced Placement ("AP"), honors and/or elective courses; (vii) students seeking career and technical skills; (viii) high school dropouts who have decided to re-enroll in school to earn a diploma; and (ix) students of military families who desire high quality, consistent education as they relocate to new locations. Our individualized learning approach allows students to optimize their educational experience and, therefore, their chances of achieving their goals. 

Most students in the United States will continue to be educated in school buildings and classrooms. However we also believe that certain student segments will benefit from the availability of an online public education, and that states and districts will seek to incorporate online solutions into their school-based programs. One of the challenges traditional schools continue to face is adoption of technology and 

innovative new learning devices. Our Managed Public School Programs offer a complete solution for districts and schools that need a turn-key option and we also offer, through our Institutional business, online curriculum and services on a solutions-oriented, customized basis for those customers who need less than a full-service offering. We believe this range of options creates the opportunity for us to serve the majority of students who will learn within school buildings. Therefore, we continue to invest significant resources, organically and through licensing or acquisitions, in developing product offerings that afford us the flexibility to serve different types of customers with varying value propositions and price points that are adaptable to an institution's capabilities and needs. Moreover, we have and will continue to pursue selected markets outside the United States where we believe our curricula can address local market needs. 

We believe that our core competencies, coupled with the substantial investments we have made in our infrastructure and our prior strategic acquisitions and partnerships, position us to offer educational resources for all types of students. Our products and services offer students expanded educational opportunities regardless of whether a student chooses to remain in a classroom or seeks an alternative educational setting, attends public or private school, lives in the United States or abroad, wants to take online classes on a full or part-time basis, requires supplemental educational products, seeks career or technical training or is an advanced or remedial student. 

Our Business Lines 

Managed Public School Programs 

As previously discussed, in our Managed Public School Programs, we provide substantially all of the management, technology and academic support services in addition to curriculum, learning systems and instructional services. We provide our Managed Public School Programs to both virtual and blended public school customers. 

We believe that the acceptance of online education in grades K-12 continues to grow, and anticipate that increased overall demand for virtual options in education will translate into increased demand for both our Managed Public School Programs and our Institutional business (sold under the brand names Fuel Education or FuelEd). At the same time, the growth rate in the Managed Public School Programs business, which serves primarily virtual charter schools, has slowed. Regulatory requirements related to academic performance and accountability are expanding and the independent governing authorities of the virtual charter schools that contract with us are taking different approaches to virtual education depending upon their own charter school goals. This in turn may alter the nature of the agreements we have with those boards and the level of management services that meet their needs. For example, a managed public school board may decide to transition to a self-managed model. While these schools continue to purchase our curriculum and some of our management and technology services, they assume more of the daily operational responsibilities for themselves. In some Managed Public School Programs, full responsibility for academic performance resides with the governing authority or school board which employs the Head of School. Conversely, as new states offer an online public school option, we believe that contracting with us for a fully integrated, virtual school turn-key operation that we manage remains attractive. We have also recently experienced a situation where a board which initially elected a self-managed approach subsequently reverted back to obtaining a greater percentage of integrated school management services from the Company. 

Virtual Public Schools 

The majority of our revenue is derived from long-term service agreements with the governing authorities of the virtual public schools we serve. In addition to a comprehensive course catalog, related books and physical materials and, in certain cases, student computers, we also offer these schools a variety of management, technology and academic support services. Full-time virtual public school students access online lessons over the Internet and utilize offline learning materials we provide. Students receive 

assignments, complete lessons, take assessments, and are instructed by certified teachers with whom they interact online, telephonically, in synchronous virtual classroom environments, and sometimes face-to-face. In a Non-managed virtual public school, the level of instructional and/or academic support management, technology services, and academic support services varies or may not be provided depending on the needs of the school. In either case, for parents who believe their child is not thriving in their current public school or for students and families who require time or location flexibility in their schooling, virtual and blended public schools can provide a compelling choice. 

Virtual public school students are also provided the opportunity to participate in a wide variety of school activities, including outings and clubs. In addition to school-level activities, we sponsor a wide variety of extracurricular activities on a national basis, such as clubs, contests and college and career planning sessions. 

Virtual public schools managed by K12 (often named virtual academies) typically serve K-8 or K-12 students, principally utilize the K 12 curriculum and attract both mainstream and all other types of learners. These virtual public schools include virtual academies, Insight schools which tend to focus on academically at-risk students, and iQ Academies which are typically only partially-managed by us, with responsibility for academic program and regulatory compliance resting with the host school or school district. We also manage career and technical education-focused online high schools which are designed to give students a head start on their career goals by earning technical and specialty trade credentials, college credits, and workplace experiences. 

Blended Public Schools 

In addition to our full-time virtual public schools, we offer a variety of management and support services and sell our products to blended public schools, which are public schools that combine online and face-to-face instruction for students in a variety of ways with varying amounts of time spent by students in a physical learning center. For the 2015-16 school year, we managed blended public schools in California, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. 

In contrast to a typical brick and mortar public school, blended public schools can provide a greater selection of available courses, increased opportunities for self-paced, individualized instruction and greater scheduling flexibility. We manage two types of blended public schools&#151;hybrid schools and Passport schools. These blended schools bring students and teachers physically together more often than a purely online program. 

In the hybrid schools we manage, such as the Chicago Virtual Charter School, students attend a learning center on a part-time basis, where they receive face-to-face instruction, in addition to their online virtual curriculum and instruction. 

Another type of blended school option is the Passport school which is specifically designed for academically at-risk students, particularly those who have previously dropped out of high school, and accordingly, includes more counseling and support services. Because many Passport students have work and/or child care responsibilities, most students spend half of each day on-site, working on-line and face to face with teachers, and complete the remainder of their daily work away from the learning center. The Hill House Passport Academy in Pennsylvania is an example of a Passport school. 

Institutional 

Our Institutional business consists of: (i) Non-managed Public School Programs; and (ii) institutional software and services. Public schools and school districts are increasingly adopting these online solutions to launch new learning models, cost-effectively expand course offerings, provide schedule flexibility, improve student engagement, increase graduation rates, replace textbooks and retain students. State education funds traditionally allocated for textbook and print materials are now also being authorized for the 

purchase of digital content, including online courses, and in some cases mandated for access to online courses. To address these growing needs, our Institutional business provides curriculum and technology solutions, packaged in a portfolio of flexible learning and delivery models mapped to specific student and/or district needs. This portfolio provides a continuum of delivery models, from full-time Non-managed Public School Programs to individual course sales and other options that can be used in traditional classrooms to differentiate instruction. The goal of the Institutional business is to partner primarily with U.S.-based public schools and school districts to provide more options and better tools to empower teachers to improve student achievement through personalized learning. Our FuelEd suite of offerings has grown and includes K 12 curriculum, FuelEd Online Courses, FuelEd A+nywhere Learning Systems ("ALS"), and Middlebury Interactive Languages, LTS Education Systems, LearnBop and Career Pathways curriculum. Our extensive catalog of online curricula can address specific student needs, including AP, honors programs, world languages, remediation, credit recovery, alternative education, career and technology electives and college readiness. In connection with these solutions, we also offer state-certified teachers, training for school personnel in online instruction methods, and professional development and other support services as needed by our customers. 

In addition to our extensive curricula catalog, Institutional business offers the PEAK platform and PEAK Library. PEAK is a proprietary software system designed to centrally manage in a single-user interface, multiple, independent online solutions. Schools can enroll students, assign courses and teachers, and then manage the learning experience with easy to use reporting and analytics on student progress. The PEAK Library currently supports the K 12 curriculum portfolio and teachers can build and modify assignments, assessments and courses to augment classroom instruction and develop lessons for sharing across the school district. PEAK also has the capability to support other third-party solutions, open educational resources and district and teacher-created content. For students, teachers and administrators, PEAK eliminates the complexity of managing multiple accounts and roles and provides a consistent online environment for full-time, credit recovery, world languages or blended classroom programs. We believe increasing ease-of-use for administrators and teachers is a critical factor in improving student support and therefore, improving student outcomes. PEAK addresses this need by serving all of the online instructional needs of a school or district in an integrated, data-driven manner. 

In fiscal year 2016, we continued to invest in our direct and indirect sales network and our product offerings. We acquired LTS Education Systems which offers test preparation and readiness curriculum and we released our new career and technical education, supplemental math and English language learner products. For the 2015-16 school year, we served school districts or individual schools in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through our Institutional business. Based upon school districts' and academic administrators' growing acceptance of online learning and desire for cost efficient, integrated and flexible educational solutions, we believe that the direct-to-district distribution channel offers further significant growth potential. 

Private Pay Schools and Other 

International and Private Pay Schools 

We operate a variety of private schools that meet the needs of students ranging from simple correspondence courses to challenging college preparatory programs. Beyond our business in the United States, we are pursuing international opportunities where we believe there is significant demand for a quality online education. Our international customers are typically expatriate families and foreign students who desire a U.S. high school diploma and wish to study in English. For the 2015-16 school year, we served students in more than 100 countries. In addition, we have entered into agreements that enable us to distribute our products and services to our international school partners who use our courses to provide broad elective offerings and dual diploma programs. 

We operate the K 12 International Academy, an online private school that serves students in both the United States and overseas. Through the K 12 International Academy, students may study in an academic program that ultimately leads to an accredited U.S. high school diploma. Students may also enroll in individual courses on a part-time basis. The K 12 International Academy utilizes the same curriculum, systems and teaching practices that we provide to the virtual public schools we manage in the United States. In addition, this school provides a unique international community including online clubs and events that enrich the student experience by allowing students to interact with peers in other countries. The school is accredited by AdvancED, and is recognized by the Commonwealth of Virginia as a degree granting institution of secondary learning. 

The Keystone School ("Keystone") is a private school that has been an innovator in home-based education and distance learning for over 35 years. Students attend Keystone for middle and high school on a full or part-time basis. It serves students through online courses with teacher support as well as print correspondence course programs. Keystone primarily uses our FuelEd curriculum and offers a lower-cost option to families than either of our other two private schools. Keystone is accredited by the Middle States Association&#151;Commission on Elementary and Secondary Schools and AdvancED. 

The George Washington University Online High School is operated in cooperation with the George Washington University. The program, which launched in the 2011-12 school year, offers K12's college preparatory curriculum and is designed for high school students who are seeking a challenging academic experience and aspire to attend top colleges and universities. The school also provides extensive counseling throughout the high school years to help students make academic and extracurricular choices and maximize their future potential. The school is accredited by the Middle States Association&#151;Commission on Elementary and Secondary Schools. 

Consumer Sales 

We also sell individual online courses and supplemental educational products directly to families. These purchasers desire to educate their children outside of the traditional public school system or to supplement their child's existing public school education without the aid of an online teacher. Customers of our consumer products have the option of purchasing a complete grade-level curriculum or individual subjects depending on their child's needs. Typical applications include summer school course work, home schooling and educational supplements. 

Our Business Strategy 

Our business strategy is driven by our mission to maximize every child's potential by transforming the educational experience, delivering a quality education to schools and their students, and supporting our customers in their quest to improve academic outcomes and prepare them for college and career readiness. In furtherance of those objectives, we plan to continue investing in our curriculum and learning systems. These investments include initiatives to create and deploy a next generation curriculum, improve the effectiveness of our school workforce, develop new instructional approaches to increase student and parental engagement, and improve our systems and security architecture. This strategy consists of the following key elements: 

Deliver better student outcomes. We are committed to improving student outcomes for every student in the schools we serve. To achieve this goal we will: (i) invest in training and professional development for teachers and school leaders; (ii) develop programs and initiatives designed to improve the learning experience, such as our interactive media projects, virtual science labs, AP test prep, specialized cohort academies and Family Academic Support Team initiatives; (iii) enhance our curriculum to make it more engaging, adaptive and accessible to all students anywhere; and (iv) update our content as state standards and state assessments change. We will also focus our marketing and enrollment efforts on helping students and families understand the unique demands and challenges of the online learning environment. We 

believe a better understanding by parents and students will better prepare students for the work and improve their chance at academic success. 

Improve student retention in our virtual schools. To ensure the best outcomes for students, we have partnered with the school boards we serve to make a concerted effort to enroll and retain students who are truly engaged and ready to learn. Research shows that students who remain in the same school setting longer generally perform better academically, and retention is especially challenging with virtual schools because families have the option of enrolling their children in a brick and mortar school or another virtual school. We therefore continue to refine our marketing programs to attract students who are most likely to succeed in a non-classroom based environment with the expectation of increasing academic success and student retention, recognizing that all students are eligible to enroll consistent with state requirements ( e.g. enrollment caps, prior public student). Once students are enrolled, programs such as the Family Academic Support Team affect early intervention and focused engagement and retention strategies, strive to help students stay on track, improve engagement and ultimately give students a better chance at academic success. 

Introduce New and Improved Products and Services. We intend to continue to expand our product line and offerings, both internally and through licensing or strategic acquisitions of products that address gaps in our current portfolio, including pursuing greater use of and access to tablet and mobile technology and adaptive learning technologies and solutions. In addition, we are endeavoring to serve new charter schools that attract students who are seeking career and technical education. 

Increase Enrollments at Existing Virtual and Blended Public Schools. In the 2015-16 school year, we will manage virtual and blended public schools in 33 states and the District of Columbia. Some state regulations and school governing authorities and districts limit or cap student enrollment or enrollment growth. At the direction of our school board and school district customers, we will provide an opportunity for more students to attend these schools, and support their efforts to work with legislators, state departments of education, educators and parents to remove those enrollment caps. 

Expand Virtual and Blended Public School Presence into Additional States and Cities. Due to the modularity of our curriculum and the comprehensiveness of our learning systems, we are able to efficiently adapt our curriculum to the individual educational standards of any state or school district with limited incremental capital investment. We will continue to work with states and school districts to authorize and establish new virtual and blended public schools and to contract with them to provide our curriculum, online learning platform, management services, and other related offerings. 

Accelerate Institutional Business. The breadth of our FuelEd catalog, now ranging from pre-K to 12 th grade, our instructional capabilities and our capacity to simplify a school district's management of multiple digital programs and vendors through our PEAK technology platform, are the key drivers for Institutional business growth. We will continue to work to accelerate the market adoption of these solutions and services as school districts partner with us to address a variety of academic needs and personalized learning for their students. We will continue to seek acquisitions of businesses that expand FuelEd's distribution and product portfolio, improve our platform and capabilities, and allow us to enter new markets to serve every child who is interested in the benefits of digital learning. 

Add Enrollments in Our Private Schools. We currently operate three online private schools that we believe appeal to a broad range of students and families. We look to drive increased enrollments in these schools by increasing awareness, through targeted marketing programs and by solicitation of partnerships with traditional brick and mortar private schools. 

Pursue International Opportunities to Offer Our Learning Systems. We believe there is strong worldwide demand for high-quality, online education from U.S. families living abroad, foreign students who seek a U.S.-style of education and the schools and school systems that serve them in their local 

market. Our ability to operate virtually is not constrained by the need for a physical classroom or local teachers, which makes our learning systems ideal for use internationally. 

Develop Additional Channels through Which to Deliver Our Learning Systems. We plan to evaluate other delivery channels on a routine basis and to pursue opportunities where we believe there is likely to be significant demand for our offering, such as direct classroom instruction, blended classroom models, career and technical education, supplemental educational products and individual products packaged and sold directly to consumers. 

Pursue Strategic Partnerships and Acquisitions. We may pursue selective acquisitions at valuations that complement our existing educational offerings and business capabilities, and that are natural extensions of our core competencies.We may also pursue opportunities with highly-respected institutions where we can be a valued-added partner or contribute our expertise in curriculum development and educational services to serve more students. 

Products and Services 

Educational Philosophy 

A primary focus of our educational philosophy is to make the academic performance of students our first priority. We are committed to continuously improving the quality of our curriculum and academic programs, including alignment with states that have adopted the Common Core State Standards ("CCSS"), the Common Core Assessments. and other state curriculum and assessment standards. We also continue to evaluate and use innovative technologies to deliver engaging and effective learning experiences for all students. We seek to leverage our product portfolios across our educational solutions and distribution channels and to invest in our content portfolio to ensure our students receive a meaningful learning experience that is individualized, engaging, accessible and effective. 

The design, development and delivery of our products and services are grounded in the following set of guiding principles: 

&#149; To deliver learning systems that are designed to help drive academic success and student engagement. Our programs include a wide variety of curriculum and course options, onboarding programs to support our families and schools, as well tools to support the overall engagement and student management. &#149; Employ Technology Appropriately for Learning. All of our courses are delivered primarily through an online platform and generally include a significant amount of online content. We employ technology where we feel it is appropriate and can enhance the learning process, with the amount of online content increasing at higher grades . In addition to online content, our curriculum includes a rich mix of courses with and without materials. Furthermore, teachers utilize a variety of collaboration and communication tools to help support student and family communication. We believe our balanced use of technology and more traditional approaches helps to maximize the effectiveness of our learning systems. &#149; Assess Every Objective to Ensure Mastery. Ongoing assessments are the most effective way to evaluate a student's mastery of a lesson or concept. To facilitate effective assessment, our curriculum states clear objectives for each lesson. Throughout a course, every student's progress is assessed at a point when each objective is expected to be mastered, providing direction for appropriate pacing. These periodic and well-timed assessments reinforce learning and promote mastery of a topic before a student moves to the next lesson or course. 13 

&#149; Individualized Learning. We seek to create engaging curriculum content to capture a student's attention to make learning more interesting and effective. It is our fundamental belief that each student learns in a highly individualized manner. Our instructional system allows students to learn from a curriculum that caters to their unique learning style and offers a high degree of program flexibility. Certain adaptive learning features being integrated into some curricular products can individualize lessons based on the level of student comprehension. &#149; Prioritize Important, Rigorous Objectives. Our content experts have developed a clear understanding of those subjects and concepts that are difficult for students, from both historical and cognitive points of view. Greater instructional effort is focused on the most important and most challenging concepts (as revealed by experience and research). We use existing research, feedback from parents and students, and experienced teacher judgments to determine these priorities, to modify our learning systems to guide the allocation of each student's time and effort, and to align with evolving state curriculum and testing standards. &#149; Facilitate Flexibility to Accommodate Variations in Ability. We believe that each student should have access to a variety of instructional solutions that help challenge each student appropriately. Generally, meaningful progress for most students is to complete one academic year's curriculum within a traditional school year. Our learning systems are designed to facilitate this flexibility to motivate and challenge each student to master each lesson. &#149; Ensure Fundamental Content Soundness. Our highly credentialed subject matter experts or "Content Specialists" bring their own scholarly and teaching backgrounds to course design and development and are required to maintain relationships with and awareness of guidelines from over 50 national and international subject-area associations. &#149; Integrate Curriculum, Teachers and Technology to Maximize Student Learning. We believe students learn better not just with great curriculum, but also great teachers and technology that allows them to access the content and teachers in a way that makes learning more engaging and effective. Academic Performance 

Our fundamental goal for every child who enrolls in a virtual public or private school managed by us, or a program offered through a school district or a Non-managed school, is to improve his or her academic performance. In fiscal year 2017, we will be publishing our 2016 K12 Annual Academic Report ("2016 Academic Report") which will be available at http://www.k12.com/what-is-K12/results. By analyzing and communicating the results of our efforts, we aim to provide data for school boards and parents as they exercise school choice options, and to help educators working to improve academic achievement for every child in our increasingly diverse schools. We expect that our 2016 Academic Report will be more reflective of the changes made by individual states to develop their own accountability standards and assessments, thereby making year-over-year comparisons less relevant. We believe that none of our competitors serving virtual public schools publishes this volume or depth of academic performance data and analytics. 

Each of the 33 states and the District of Columbia in which we manage virtual public schools measures academic performance using different state accountability methods. A number of states have adopted the Common Core State Standards for curriculum content and one of the two online assessment methods aligned to those standards, the Smarter Balanced Assessment Consortium ("Smarter Balanced") or the Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and Careers ("PARCC"). However, as of school year 2015-16, a majority of the states in which we operate, such as Arizona, Florida and Indiana, currently rely on their own state-developed standards and assessments or commercially available assessments. Some states use a combination of a state-developed test and either the PARCC or Smarter Balanced test, while other states in which we operate never adopted the CCSS, including Virginia and Texas. 

In the 2014-2015 school year, many states changed their accountability assessments. Across all K12 public school programs, only eight states did not change their state accountability tests in 2014-2015: Iowa, Minnesota, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, and Wyoming. The changes in state tests were in part a consequence of the Common Core State Standards, initially released in 2010. In that year, most states began the process of adopting the Common Core standards, encouraged by the federal grant program called Race to the Top, which favored applicants that agreed to adopt Common Core. The new content standards required new assessments so to develop assessments aligned to the Common Core, the federal government funded two testing consortia: the Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and Careers ("PARCC") and the Smarter Balanced Assessment Consortium ("SBAC"). At one time, 24 states and the District of Columbia were signed on to administer the PARCC assessments. However, in the 2014-2015 school year, only the District of Columbia and 10 states fully administered the PARCC assessments. The Education Commission of the States notes that in 2015-2016, only six states and the District of Columbia plan to use the PARCC assessments. While the Smarter Balanced consortium has experienced fewer withdrawals, its members have decreased to 15 states that administered the full SBAC assessment in the 2015-2016 school year. 

We share the view taken by many states that assessing a student's academic performance by his or her learning growth is a more accurate measure of a school's effectiveness than attaining a static proficiency score. Most of our schools administer nationally-recognized interim and/or benchmark assessments to measure student growth during the school year, to prepare students for state assessments and to guide instruction. To ensure all schools are utilizing best practices learned from the successful schools we manage and from other high performing schools across the country, we began the process of adopting a standardized academic plan that addresses teacher preparation, delivery of instruction, and student assessment. Effective instruction is informed by and evaluated based on student-level data. As part of the academic plan, schools implement plans to collect student-level data throughout the year from three types of assessments: diagnostic, formative interim, and summative. Baseline assessments are used to determine a student's academic strengths and weaknesses and are administered at the beginning of the school year or when a student enrolls. Formative interim assessments are administered throughout the year to assess student mastery of the state standards and objectives. Summative assessments measure student learning at culminating points in a student's academic career, such as the end of the semester or the end of the school year. In most cases, state tests serve as the summative assessment for schools. We provide recommendations for benchmark and interim formative assessments based on state standards and state assessments. In several cases charter authorizers, district partners or departments of education require specific assessments. We plan to report school performance on commonly-used assessments in future years. 

In addition to the complexities involved in measuring academic performance of students, we believe the virtual public schools we serve face unique challenges impacting academic success not necessarily encountered to the same extent by traditional brick and mortar schools. These challenges include students who enter behind grade level or under-credited, high student mobility, lack of control over the student learning environment and higher than average percentages of students in student populations eligible for free or reduced-price lunch in many states. With rare exceptions, the data shows that students identified as eligible for free lunch had lower percentages at or above proficiency levels than students eligible for reduced-price lunch, and both groups usually underperformed students identified as not eligible for subsidized meals. In addition, for decades, educational research has shown that persistence&#151;remaining and proceeding at pace in the same school setting&#151;can benefit academic performance, while mobility&#151;moving from one school setting to another&#151;can have a destabilizing influence, causing students to struggle and lapse in academic performance. 

While measuring academic performance is necessary, taking meaningful steps to improve student outcomes is an integral part of our mission. Accordingly, we continually strive to achieve that objective by undertaking new initiatives and improving existing programs, such as Strong Start, our Family Academic Support Teams and EmbarK 12 (described below under " Our Products "). To monitor student learning 

progress during the school year, we are adding multiple equivalent assessments at the lesson, unit and semester level to ensure that our measurement of mastery is reliable and valid, as well as adopting data driven instruction that provides for targeted teacher intervention to assist students with lesson challenges. 

In furtherance of our goal to improve academic performance, in fiscal year 2014 we established an Academic Committee of the K12 Board of Directors comprised of three members. The primary role of the Academic Committee is to make recommendations and assist management in discharging its responsibility to ensure continuous improvement in academic outcomes for the public and private schools served by the K12. With input and oversight from the Academic Committee, the education experts who are members of our K12 Educational Advisory Committee ("EAC"), formed in 2013, will further improve our focus on academic achievement and growth goals as well as advising us on specific tactics to be successful in these areas. The EAC met four times in fiscal year 2016. The members of our EAC are: 

&#149; Dr. David Driscoll, former Commissioner of Education, Commonwealth of Massachusetts &#149; Ms. Millie Fornell, former Chief of Staff, Miami-Dade School District &#149; Ms. Ann Foster, former Senior Vice President Strategy, Business Development and Connected Learning for Harcourt Education Group &#149; Dr. Beverly Hutton, Executive Director of the National Association of Secondary School Principals &#149; Mr. Timothy Murray, Executive Chairman, Voxy, Inc. &#149; Dr. Andrew Porter, former Dean of the Graduate School of Education, University of Pennsylvania &#149; Ms. Jessie Woolley-Wilson, President, CEO and Chairman of the Board of DreamBox Learning, Inc. &#149; Dr. Elanna Yalow, CEO of Knowledge Universe Early Learning Programs Our Products 

Our product approach is to continue investing in systems and technology to educate students more effectively and efficiently. Much of our investment has been in the development of K-12 online courses and management systems. We are planning specialized courses and programs designed to remediate the rapidly increasing number of students who are enrolling in schools behind grade level. Specifically, we are making, licensing or acquiring more individualized learning programs for students using adaptive learning technology, which requires a significant financial commitment to license or acquire, integrate and develop a specialized curriculum and a complex database. 

As school districts confront the same issues that we are experiencing in the managed public schools, we believe that our solutions could gain widespread acceptance. Over the past year, we have been working on our new next generation curriculum that is being developed to help us deliver embedded assessment tools and rich media through adaptive learning pathways for our students. Our first release of these new courses is being introduced to the schools we manage in fall 2016. In addition, our PEAK system provides school districts and administrators a better way to manage their online education programs and content. In 2014, we entered into an agreement to transition our high school learning management system ("LMS") to Desire2Learn, a pioneer in next-generation digital education systems, which should help us improve student engagement, retention and outcomes for our managed schools. During school year 2015-16, we migrated the virtual high schools we manage to this new platform. 

Just as we pioneered the development of virtual schools, we are resolved to address the most challenging educational needs facing schools and districts. Our goal is to assist teachers, schools and districts in implementing individualized education programs to better serve their students. This can take a variety of forms including turn-key solutions, partnerships, vendor relationships, enterprise licenses, and purchases of curriculum and services. 

Our investment strategy is not limited, however, to curriculum and systems. We are also making substantial investments in our service offerings to improve student outcomes. For example, as part of our Strong Start student onboarding program, we offered a diagnostic assessment tool that a number of Managed Public School Programs have utilized to develop targeted instructional plans for new students who often start school with us before their academic records arrive. We are also offering the Family Academic Support Team program in many of the schools we manage. The purpose of this program is to ensure students are ready to engage in their learning experience by helping them overcome non-academic barriers, including family, health, psychological, or social issues that create obstacles to achieving academic success for some students. Additionally, we continue to invest in improving the quality of teachers and school leaders through our professional development efforts. 

Curriculum 

K12 has one of the largest digital curriculum portfolios for the K-12 online education industry. The K 12 curriculum consists of a variety of online lessons and resources, offline instructional kits and materials and lesson guides. A single year-long K 12 course generally consists of 120 to 180 unique instructional lessons. Each lesson is designed to last approximately 45 to 60 minutes, although students are able to work at their own pace. We have a broad-based curriculum that includes courses across kindergarten, elementary, middle and high school, including world languages. 

Since our inception, we have built core courses in English language arts, mathematics, science and history on a foundation of rigorous standards, following the guidance and recommendations of leading educational organizations at the national and state levels. For this reason, our K 12 curriculum was well positioned to satisfy the requirements of the CCSS when they were published in June 2010. Since then, we have been in the process of fully aligning our existing and new courses to the CCSS and other state standards and assessments. As the CCSS landscape is continually changing, we will monitor the decisions that states are making with regard to CCSS adoption and the associated assessments of the CCSS or other standards the states may adopt, which in turn may require further adjustments. We have and will continue to invest in and update our curriculum to stay current with emerging and developing standards like CCSS. 

Online Lessons. For school year 2015-16, our K 12 online lessons were accessed by K-8 students through a proprietary learning management platform, which we call our Online School ("OLS"). Lessons are accessed through a third-party platform by high school students, as well as a number of other common industry platforms for students who access our FuelEd Online Courses. Each online lesson provides the roadmap for the entire lesson, including direction to specific online and offline materials, summaries of major objectives for the lesson and the actual lesson content with assessments. Digital versions of documents, readings, labs and other activities may also be included. Lessons utilize a combination of innovative technologies, including animations, demonstrations, audio, video and other graphic/digital interactivity, educational games and individualized feedback, all coordinated with offline textbooks and hands-on materials, to create an engaging, responsive and highly-effective curriculum. The formative and periodic summative, online assessments ensure that students have mastered the material and are ready to proceed to the next lesson, allowing them to work at their own pace. Pronunciation guides for key words and references to suggested additional resources, specific to each lesson and each student's assignments and assessments, are also included. 

Learning Kits. Many of our courses utilize learning kits in conjunction with the online lessons to maximize the effectiveness of our learning systems. In addition to receiving access to our online lessons through the Internet, each K-8 student receives a shipment of materials, including textbooks, art supplies, laboratory supplies (e.g., microscopes, scales, science specimens) and other reference materials which are referred to and incorporated in instruction throughout our curriculum. This approach is consistent with our guiding principle to utilize technology where appropriate for our learning systems, and combine it with other effective instructional methods. We have also created and/or converted additional K 12 textbooks and 

resources used across our courses into an electronic format, enabling us to offer options to enhance the student experience without physical books. 

Lesson Guides. Our courses are generally paired with a lesson guide and/or teacher resources. These resources are designed to work in coordination with the online lessons and include the following: overview information for learning coaches, lesson objectives, lesson outlines and activities, answer keys to student exercises and suggestions for explaining difficult concepts to students. 

Pre-K and K-8 Courses 

From pre-kindergarten through 8th grade, our courses are generally categorized into seven major subject areas: English language arts, mathematics, science, history, art, music and world languages. Our proprietary curriculum includes all of the courses that students need to complete their core kindergarten through 8th grade education; our pre-K offering, which we refer to as EmbarK 12 , introduces students to core subjects through cross-curricular thematic units, building initial and fundamental relationships among concepts. Courses focus on developing fundamental skills and teaching the key knowledge building blocks or schemas&#151;the "big ideas" that each student will need to master the major subject areas, meet state standards, including those formulated as the CCSS, and complete more advanced coursework. Unlike a traditional classroom education, and in conjunction with school teachers and counselors, our learning systems offer the flexibility for each student to take courses at different grade levels in a single academic year, providing flexibility for students to progress at their own level and pace within each subject area. 

Our K 12 elementary language arts program is designed to deliver increased interactivity and make instruction even more engaging and efficient while integrating rewards, interactive practice and a virtual world. These courses support students at various skill levels via targeted, timely remediation, embody CCSS and include significant media integration. In addition, the flexibility of our learning systems allows us to tailor our curriculum to state specific requirements. For example, we have developed 171 courses specifically created for the public school standards in 18 states; we are aligning our courses to the CCSS and the Common Core Assessments; and in addition to the ongoing evolution of our K-5 Math+ program, we have also created over 85 custom Math+ sequences to serve specific state needs. 

High School Courses 

The curriculum available to high school students is much broader and varies from student to student, largely as a result of the increased flexibility in course selection available to high school students. Students also are able to select from a wide range of electives. We have augmented our lab program for lab science courses with the creation of alternate kit-free science labs as an augmentation or alternative for our formerly kit-based high school science labs in order to provide a more flexible and robust lab program across our physical science, earth science, biology, chemistry and physics courses. Our overall lab program now includes traditional kit-based labs based on either shipped-in or household materials, virtual labs, video-based labs, data- collection and data-manipulation labs, and field studies. This array provides schools with additional materials flexibility, and integrates diverse modalities directly into our science curriculum to promote conceptual mastery. Across all subject areas, the K12 proprietary core curriculum accounts for more than three quarters of our high school course enrollments. We are aligning our courses to the CCSS and the Common Core Assessments as well as various state standards. We also will be launching over 40 new courses to help support our focus on career and technical education. 

FuelEd Online Courses. We also offer curriculum to schools and school districts marketed as our FuelEd Online Courses product line. FuelEd Online Courses are aligned to state and national standards, including many to the CCSS, and include more than 180 courses for middle and high school students, featuring core, AP, elective and credit recovery courses. FuelEd's Online Courses are developed by subject matter experts, designed by multimedia teams and may be taught by Company-provided instructors at the customers' option. FuelEd classes are primarily delivered over the Internet in a classroom or virtual 

setting, and use a variety of interactive elements to keep students engaged. A deep understanding of K-12 pedagogy, as well as the human factors associated with online technology, is integrated into FuelEd's courses. 

Middlebury Interactive Languages ("MIL"). We offer digital world language courses and residential summer language academies through MIL. These offerings include immersive language courses for K-12 students based on Middlebury College's pedagogy to help students gain a stronger base of comprehension and accelerate language acquisition. The age-appropriate language courses, which can be implemented fully online, in a blended learning environment or as supplemental material, use instructional tools such as animation, music, videos and other authentic materials to immerse students in the language and culture of study. We offer Chinese, French, German and Spanish courses for elementary, middle and high school students. In addition, MIL has developed a summer English language learner ("ELL") curriculum and new, digital, supplemental ELL courses for middles school student to be used in a blended environment. MIL also operates summer residential language academies, an immersive program for middle and high school students. Academy students live in language by taking the Language Pledge, a promise to communicate solely in their language of study for four weeks. Instruction is offered in Arabic, Chinese, French, German and Spanish at multiple college campuses in Vermont and internationally in Quebec, Spain and China. 

Innovative Learning Applications 

In order to continue to enhance the user experience and instructional methods of our learning systems, we strive to develop new technologies to adapt our curriculum to new devices and platforms. 

&#149; Mobile Device Learning: We have created numerous tools and applications for mobile devices. We expect our mobile applications will create the ability for a student to learn "on-the-go," allowing for more continuous learning, engagement and mastery of content. In addition, we rolled out our first fully mobile-enabled courseware in the fall of 2014 and have developed a core mobile catalog of 50 courses. &#149; Interactive Games: An active educational games initiative is delivering new methods for engagement, practice and review of K-12 concepts, including: narrative/immersive styles, rewards, persistent data, and complex algorithms. In fiscal year 2016, we acquired a personalized game based learning system that is designed to help students accelerate learning and practice on state standards. These games make use of extensive research and educational best practices and address targeted learning objectives. &#149; Virtual Labs: We have delivered alternatives for our educational partners who desire materials-free curriculum. This includes converting many of our existing materials-based high school science labs into highly interactive virtual labs and video lab simulations that meet state standards and still maintain teaching the original learning objectives. For example, in high school chemistry we have developed a virtual laboratory on chromatography, in which students separate a number of inks into their component pigments. This laboratory is performed at a virtual lab bench with all the materials and with the same procedures high school students would use in a physical chemistry laboratory. &#149; eBook and Digital Book Distribution: Through fiscal year 2016, we have created or converted additional K 12 textbooks used across our courses into an electronic format, including textbooks, reference guides, literature readers and lab manuals. This digital delivery ability enables us to offer options to our customers via interactive online books that enhance the student's reading experience, reinforce the student's learning approach and create a new method for delivering book and print materials. Each offline book is converted into an electronic book format with a custom user interface to be viewed via a standard web browser or a commercially available electronic reader (e.g. Kindle, Nook). 19 

&#149; Adaptive Learning: We offer certain courses that are adaptive, which enable individualized learning experiences as the course "adapts" at key points to student behavior and input. Based on assessment results or individual activity, these courses can automatically route students to an alternate explanation, additional practice or remediation on a prerequisite skill or crucial concept. In addition to remediation, the capability allows students to accelerate past previously mastered concepts, giving skillful students time for more challenging work. Our MARK 12 reading remediation product captures individual students' successes and challenges as they practice phonemic awareness, alphabetic principles, accuracy and fluency, vocabulary and comprehension. The program serves the individual student more exercises, practice and review in areas of difficulty. Adaptation in this way tailors the instruction automatically for each student, making learning experiences more efficient and effective by building into the course the logic an expert teacher or tutor uses to differentiate instruction. &#149; National Math Lab: For use by a number of managed schools in certain states, the National Math Lab program is intended to help students develop the necessary skills to succeed in math. For fiscal year 2016, the program was redesigned to focus on students in Grades 3-8 who do not exhibit grade level proficiency in math, as determined by state assessments. National Math Lab provides nearly twice the usual amount of math instruction to students because it is taken in addition to their regular online math coursework. Students attend targeted synchronous mathematical instruction sessions provided by highly-trained math teachers four days per week to work specifically on skills needed to gain math proficiency on state exams. &#149; Engaging Videos: We continue to explore opportunities to enhance student engagement through strategic use of relevant multimedia. Multimedia is specifically used as appropriate for the subject matter. For example, our video on photosynthesis for high school biology allows students to witness the setup, procedure and data in a classic experiment in which an aquatic plant is exposed to light and produces oxygen bubbles. The high definition video and the presentation to the student of real data (which they then use in their analysis) make this video lab a multimedia experience that is coupled with a scientific method. Learning Management Systems 

For our K 12 curriculum users in grades K-8 in school year 2015-16, we provided a proprietary learning management system, our online school ("OLS") platform. The OLS is a significant part of our ongoing effort to provide the most engaging and productive learning experience for students. The OLS platform is a web-based software platform that provides access to our online lessons, our lesson planning and scheduling tools, and our progress tracking tool which serves a key role in assisting parents and teachers in managing each student's progress. The OLS is also the central system through which students, parents, teachers and administrators interact using email and Class Connect (our integrated synchronous session scheduler). 

&#149; Lesson Planning and Scheduling Tools. During a school year, a typical student will complete hundreds of lessons across six or more subject areas. In the OLS platform, our lesson planning and scheduling tools enable teachers and parents to establish an individualized plan for each student to complete his or her lessons. These tools are designed to dynamically update the lesson plan as a student progresses through each lesson and course, allowing flexibility to increase or decrease the pace at which the student advances through the curriculum while ensuring that the student progresses towards completion in the desired time frame. Moreover, changes can be made to the schedule at any point during the school year and the remainder of the student's schedule will automatically be adjusted in the OLS. Unlike a traditional classroom education, our learning systems offer the flexibility for each student to take courses at different grade levels in a single academic year, providing flexibility for students to progress at their own level and pace within each 20 

subject area. The curriculum includes assessments built into every lesson to guide and tailor the pace of progress to each child's needs. 

&#149; Progress Tracking Tools. Once a schedule has been established, the OLS delivers lessons based upon the specified parameters of the school and the teacher. Each day, a student is initially directed to a home page listing the schedule for that particular day and begins the school day by selecting one of the listed lessons. As each lesson is completed, the student returns to the day's schedule to proceed to the next subject. If a student does not complete a lesson by the end of the day on which it was originally scheduled, the lesson will be rescheduled to the next day and will resume at the point where the student left off. Our progress tracking tool allows students, parents, learning coaches and teachers to monitor student progress. In addition, information collected by our tracking tool regarding attendance and other pertinent data are transferred to our proprietary TotalView system for use in providing administrative support services. This instructional program includes several processes and educational techniques that embrace proactive intervention. As a result, we can provide high quality instruction and intervention aligned to student needs. In fiscal year 2014, we entered into a strategic license agreement with Desire2Learn, a pioneer in next-generation digital education systems and learning platforms. At the beginning of school year 2015-16, we implemented this new virtual learning platform at the high schools we serve. Similar to our OLS, this new platform enables lesson planning, scheduling, tracking student progress and conducting assessments. The platform is used by over 50 K-12 organizations, and provides an industry-leading student experience which should help us improve student engagement, retention and outcomes for the Managed Public School Programs we serve. 

The new platform helps us deliver a more personalized experience to our students and teachers. The intuitive experience enables students to access pertinent information more easily. This platform also includes an assessment tracking tool that enables teachers to easily view assessment data for their students so that they can proactively provide additional instruction to students as needed. Our assessment tools help us improve learning programs by providing information on the effectiveness of instructional activities and curriculum. Furthermore, our learning programs make use of a variety of formative and summative assessment instruments: 

&#149; Lesson assessments that verify mastery of the objectives for that lesson and to determine whether further study of the lesson is necessary. &#149; Unit assessments that show whether or not the student has retained key learning objectives for the unit, and identify specific objectives students may need to review before progressing. &#149; Semester assessments that verify student mastery of key learning objectives for the semester. The platform also provides additional tools and reports that enable teachers to have better insights into students' progress as well as enable students to manage their day more effectively. 

TotalView 

TotalView is our proprietary student information system. TotalView is integrated with the OLS and several other proprietary systems including our online enrollment system that allows parents to complete school enrollment forms online and our Order Management System that generates orders for learning kits and computers to be delivered to students. TotalView stores student specific data and is used for a variety of functions, including enrolling students in courses, assigning progress marks and grades, tracking student demographic data, and generating student transcripts. The TotalView suite of online applications provides administrators, teachers, parents and students a unified view of student attendance, communications, and learning kit shipment tracking. 

TotalView also includes an enrollment processing and tracking tool that allows us to closely monitor and manage the enrollment process for new students. Over the past several years, we have enhanced TotalView with additional functionality to better support the operation of the virtual and blended public schools. 

PEAK 

Institutional business offers an innovative platform called PEAK and the PEAK Library. PEAK is a proprietary software system designed to centrally manage in a single-user interface multiple, independent online school-based functions. Schools can enroll and activate students, assign courses and teachers, and then manage the learning experience with easy to use reporting and analytics on student progress. In addition, through the PEAK Library, teachers can build and modify assignments, assessments and courses and can augment classroom instruction and develop lessons for sharing across the school district. PEAK also has the capability to support other third-party solutions, open educational resources and district and teacher-created content. In fiscal year 2016, PEAK served nearly 900 school districts and school partners and nearly 400,000 students. As more districts adopt online learning, they are demanding more control and flexibility in managing their programs. PEAK provides extensive capabilities for districts wanting to operate multiple solutions or catalogs from a single application and offers rich personalization features that can be managed at the district, school or teacher level. 

Our Services 

We offer a comprehensive suite of services to students and their families as well as directly to virtual and blended public schools, traditional schools and school districts. Our services can be categorized broadly into academic support services and management and technology services. 

Academic Support Services 

Teachers and Related Services. Teachers are critical to students' educational success. Many teachers in the virtual and blended public schools that we manage are employed by the school, with the ultimate authority over these teachers residing with the school's governing body, including final hiring and termination decisions. As part of our service agreements, we typically contract to recruit, train and provide management support for these school-employed teachers. For our Institutional business customers, we provide instructors as needed using our staff of state-certified teachers and trainers. 

We use a rigorous evaluation process for making teacher hiring recommendations to the schools we manage. We generally recruit teachers who, at a minimum, are state certified and meet each state's requirements for designation as a "Highly Qualified Teacher." We also seek to recruit teachers who have the skill set necessary to be successful in a virtual environment. Teaching in a virtual or blended public school is characterized by enhanced one-on-one student-teacher and parent-teacher interaction, so these teachers must have strong interpersonal communications skills. Additionally, a virtual or blended public school teacher must be creative in finding ways to effectively connect with their students and integrate themselves into the daily lives of the students' families. We assess these teacher characteristics by requiring teachers to deliver and record a sample lesson on our online platform and answer questions both via video and essay as part of the hiring screening process. Throughout a teacher's employment in a managed program, we provide tools for teacher management and evaluation. 

New teachers participate in our comprehensive training program during which, among other things, they are introduced to our educational philosophy, our curriculum and technology applications, and are provided strategies for communicating and connecting with students and their families in a virtual environment. We also provide ongoing professional development opportunities for teachers so that they may stay abreast of changing educational standards, key learning trends, and sound pedagogical strategies which we believe enhance their teaching abilities and effectiveness. 

Advanced and Special Education Services. We believe that our learning systems can be appropriate to address the educational needs of both advanced and special education students because they employ flexible teaching methods and students can use them at their own pace. For students requiring special attention, we employ a national director who is an expert on the delivery of special education services in a virtual or blended public school environment and who supports the special education programs at the schools we serve. We periodically review and, in cooperation with the schools, may assist and facilitate the development and implementation of Individualized Education Plans for students with special needs. Each school's special education program is designed to be compliant with the federal Individuals with Disabilities Education Act and state special education requirements. Each student with special needs is assigned a certified special education teacher and the school arranges for any required ancillary services, including speech and occupational therapy, and any required assistive technologies, such as special computer displays or speech recognition software. We support advanced and talented students through our advanced learner program. Advanced learners are able to participate in a wide variety of enrichment opportunities and clubs. Advanced students are connected to each other across state boundaries through learning circles, book clubs, and other special- interest activities. In addition, for students needing English language learning assistance ("ELL Students"), we work with the schools and parents to advise on these programs, including with translation services in our enrollment centers. 

Supporting Academically At-Risk Learners. Our objective is to narrow the achievement gap for those students who enter our virtual or blended public schools behind their same-age peers. To that end, students are given both formative and summative assessments during the course of the school year in order to identify those students needing specific remedial support as well as measure the effectiveness of the support. We also offer the Passport school program, which is designed for academically at-risk students, particularly those who have previously dropped out of high school, and which includes more counseling and support services. 

Student Support Services. We provide students attending virtual or blended public schools that we manage and their families with a variety of support services as a means to help them meet their educational needs and goals, and to address any questions or concerns that students and their parents have during the course of their education. We plan and coordinate social events to offer students opportunities to meet and socialize with their school peers where practical. Finally, in connection with our high school offering, each student is assigned a homeroom teacher, and/or an advisor and a guidance counselor who assists them with academic issues, college and career planning and other support as needed. 

Management and Technology Services 

Turn-key Services. For most Managed Public School programs, we provide a turn-key suite of services whereby we take responsibility for all aspects of the management of the schools, including the provision of online curriculum and lesson materials, monitoring academic achievement, teacher hiring recommendations and training, financial management and regulatory compliance, marketing and enrollment support, and provision of computers and other required products and services. 

Accreditation. In 2013, AdvancED renewed our accreditation for another five years. AdvancED is a non-profit organization that serves more than 30,000 public and private schools and districts across the United States. It was created by the merger of the preK-12 divisions of the North Central Accreditation Association Commission on Accreditation and School Improvement and the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Council on Accreditation and School Improvement, and the subsequent addition of the Northwest Accreditation Commission. Many of the schools we manage also maintain regional accreditations with other accrediting associations. 

Compliance and Tracking Services. Operating a virtual or blended public school entails many of the compliance and regulatory requirements of a traditional public school, as well as applicable charter provisions or other requirements specifically adopted for online public schools. We have developed 

management systems and processes designed to track compliance with those requirements, including tracking appropriate student information and meeting various state and federal reporting, record keeping and privacy requirements for the schools we serve. For example, we collect enrollment related information, monitor attendance and administer proctored state tests. Further, as we have expanded into new states, our processes have grown increasingly robust. In fiscal year 2014, we created the position of Chief School Compliance Officer ("CSCO") to supplement and oversee school compliance. Among other responsibilities, our CSCO complements our corporate compliance and ethics function and reviews and advises our managed public schools on applicable regulatory policies, practices and procedures. The CSCO reports semi-annually to the Audit Committee. 

Financial Management Services. For the schools we manage, we oversee the preparation of the annual budget and coordinate with the school's governing body to determine its annual objectives. In addition, we implement an internal control framework, develop policies and procedures, provide accounting services and payroll administration, oversee all federal entitlement programs, arrange for external audits and support state and local financial compliance reporting by the schools. 

Facility, Operations and Technology Support Services. We generally operate administrative offices and all other facilities on behalf of the schools we manage. We provide these schools with technology infrastructure. In addition, we provide a comprehensive help desk solution for students and school staff to address their computer or other technical issues. 

Human Resources Support Services. We are actively involved in recruiting virtual and blended public school administrators, teachers and staff, through a thorough interview and orientation process. To better facilitate the hiring process, we review and analyze the profiles of teachers that have been highly effective in our managed public and blended schools learning systems to identify the attributes desired in future new hires. While many schools employ teachers directly, we also help negotiate and secure employment benefits and payroll services for school staff on behalf of the schools and administer employee benefit plans for school employees. Additionally, we assist the schools we serve in drafting and implementing administrative policies and procedures. 

Competition 

As a general matter, we face varying degrees of competition from a variety of education companies because the scope of our offerings and the customers we serve encompass many separate and distinct segments of the education business. We compete primarily with companies that provide online curriculum and school support services to K-12 virtual and blended public schools, and school districts. These companies include Pearson PLC (Connections Academy and Advanced Academics), White Hat Management, LLC, and National Network of Digital Schools Management Foundation Inc., among others. We also face competition from online and print curriculum developers. The online curriculum providers include Apex Learning Inc., Compass Learning Inc., Edgenuity Inc., Glynlyon, Inc., Edmentum Inc., Renaissance Learning, Inc., Rosetta Stone Inc. and traditional textbook publishers including Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, McGraw-Hill Companies and Pearson PLC. Other competing online curriculum providers, including IXL Learning, Inc. and LearnZillion, Inc., offer a "freemium" model which provides curriculum at no charge but charges for additional products or services and certain other providers. We also compete with institutions such as The Laurel Springs School (Nobel Learning Communities, Inc.) and Penn Foster Inc. for online private school students. Additionally, we compete with state-administered online programs such as Florida Virtual School. 

We believe that the primary factors on which we compete are: 

&#149; extensive experience in, and understanding of, K-12 virtual schooling; &#149; track record of student academic gains and customer satisfaction; 24 

&#149; quality of integrated curriculum and materials with an online delivery platform; &#149; qualifications, experience and training teachers for online instruction; &#149; comprehensiveness of school management and student support services; &#149; platform designed to allow school district partners to centrally manage multiple online solutions; &#149; integrated K-12 solutions, with components designed and built to work together; &#149; ability to scale across our lines of business; and &#149; sophisticated government affairs knowledge and experience in virtual school regulatory environments. Broadly speaking, we participate in the market for K-12 education. In states where we enter into long-term service agreements to manage virtual and blended public schools, we believe that we generally serve less than 1% of the public school students in that state. The customers for Institutional business are schools and school districts seeking individual courses to supplement their course catalogs or school districts seeking to offer an online education program to serve the needs of a small subset of their overall student population. Defining a more precise relevant market upon which to base a share estimate would not be meaningful due to significant limitations on the comparability of data among jurisdictions. For example, some providers to K-12 virtual public schools serve only high school students; others serve the elementary and middle school students, and some serve both. There are also providers of online virtual K-12 education that operate solely within individual states or geographic regions rather than globally as we do. Furthermore, some school districts offer their own virtual programs with which we compete. Parents in search of an alternative to their local public school have a number of alternatives beyond virtual and blended public schools, including private schools, public charter schools and home schooling. In our International and Private Pay schools, we compete for students seeking an English-based K-12 education worldwide, and we currently draw students from more than 100 countries. In addition, our integrated learning systems consist of components that face competition from many different types of education companies, such as traditional textbook publishers, test and assessment firms and private education management companies. Finally, our learning systems are designed to operate domestically and internationally over the Internet, and thus the geographic market for many of our products and services is global and indeterminate in size. 

Key Functional Areas 

Public Affairs, School Development, Student Recruitment and Marketing 

We seek to increase public awareness of the educational and fiscal benefits of our online learning options through full-time virtual and blended instructional models as well as supplementary course options. We receive numerous inquiries from school districts, legislators, public charter school boards, community leaders, state departments of education, educators and parents who express the desire to have a choice in public school options. Our public affairs and school development teams work together with these interested parties to identify and pursue opportunities to expand the use of our products and services in new and existing jurisdictions. 

Our student recruitment and marketing team is responsible for generating interest in new student enrollments, developing websites and media assets, conducting market and customer research, and enhancing the onboarding experience of students. This team employs a variety of strategies designed to better understand and address the requirements of our target markets. 

Operations 

The physical learning kits that accompany our online lessons are an essential component of many of our courses. A student enrolling in one of our courses may receive multiple textbooks, art supplies, laboratory supplies (e.g. microscopes and scales) and other reference materials designed to enhance the learning experience. We package these books and materials into course-specific learning kits. Because each student's curriculum is customized, the combination of kits for each student must also be customized. In fiscal year 2016, we assembled approximately seven million items into more than 640,000 kits. 

Over our 16 years of operation, we believe that we have gained significant experience in the sourcing, assembly and delivery of school supplies and materials. We have developed strong relationships with partners allowing us to source goods at favorable price, quality and service levels. Our fulfillment partner stores our inventory, assembles our learning kits and ships the kits to students. We have invested in systems, including our Order Management System, to automatically translate the curriculum selected by each enrolled student into an order to build the corresponding individualized learning kit. As a result, we believe we have an end-to-end warehousing and fulfillment operation that will cost-effectively scale as the business grows in scope and complexity. 

For many of our virtual and blended public school customers, we attempt to reclaim any materials that could be cost-effectively re-utilized in the next school year. These items, once returned to our fulfillment centers, are refurbished and included in future learning kits. This reclamation process allows us to maintain lower materials costs. Our fulfillment activities are highly seasonal, and are centered on the start of school in August or September. Accordingly, approximately 65% of our annual materials inventory is received between March and May and approximately 65% of shipments to customers occur between June and September. In order to ensure that students in virtual and blended public schools have access to our OLS, we often provide students with a computer and all necessary support. We source computers and ship them to students when they enroll and reclaim the computers at the end of a school year or upon termination of their enrollment or withdrawal from the school in which they are enrolled. 

Technology 

Our online learning systems, along with our back office support systems, are built on our proprietary Service Oriented Architecture ("SOA") to ensure high availability and redundancy. The flexibility and security enabled by our SOA are the core principles of our systems' foundation. 

Service Oriented Architecture. All of our systems leverage our SOA that is built on top of Enterprise Java. The SOA allows us to develop iterative solutions expeditiously to meet both present and future market needs. Our high availability and scalability are also facilitated by this architecture. The SOA also enables integration with third-party solutions in our platform with ease and efficiency. 

Availability and Redundancy. Our SOA allows for primary and secondary equipment to be utilized at all network and application tiers. Each application layer is load balanced across multiple servers, which, along with our network management capabilities, allows for additional hardware to be inserted into our network providing us with optimal scalability and availability as evidenced by our typically greater than 99% uptime over a growing user base. We regularly backup critical data and store this backup data at an offsite location. 

Security. Our security measures and policies include dividing application layers into multiple zones controlled by firewall technology. Sensitive communications are encrypted between client and server and our server-to-server accessibility is strictly controlled and monitored. We also have engaged an outside firm to manage unwanted traffic that may target our services and systems. We protect sensitive information and meet regulatory and contractual commitments through policy and control governance that is validated on a semi-annual basis. We maintain a layered security architecture and regularly retain third parties to test our networks, servers and applications for vulnerabilities. We manage a business-centric information security 

program that is appropriate for our constantly changing IT compliance and information security threat landscape. 

Physical Infrastructure. We utilize leading vendors to provide a foundation for our SOA. Our systems are housed offsite in data centers that provide a robust, redundant network backbone, power and geographically separated disaster recovery. Our second data center, geographically separated from our primary center, operates as a ready business continuity site with secured, near-real time data replication from our primary data center. We routinely monitor our physical infrastructure for security, availability and performance. 

Other Information 

Intellectual Property 

We continue to invest in our intellectual property as we develop more courses for new grades and expand into adjacent education markets, both in the United States and overseas. Through acquisitions, we have also acquired curriculum, patents and trademarks that expand our portfolio of educational products and services. We continue to add features and tools to our proprietary learning platform and support systems to assist teachers and students and improve educational outcomes, such as adaptive learning technologies. These intellectual property assets are critical to our success and we avail ourselves of the full protections provided under the patent, copyright, trademark and trade secrets laws. We also routinely utilize confidentiality and licensing agreements with our employees, the virtual and blended public schools, traditional schools, school districts and private schools that we serve, individual consumers, contractors and other businesses and persons with which we have commercial relationships. 

Our patent portfolio includes issued patents and pending applications directed towards various aspects of our educational products and offerings. In particular, the first family of patent applications we filed in the U.S. and in foreign countries was directed towards the first generation of our system and method of virtual schooling and includes two issued patents. Further, two U.S. patents were issued for our systems and methods of online foreign language instruction. We have been issued patents in the United States and in a foreign country for aspects of the second generation of our virtual school application. 

We own and register the copyrights to the lessons contained in the courses that comprise our proprietary curriculum. We also have obtained federal and state registrations for numerous trademarks that are related to our offerings and we have applied to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to register certain new trademarks. As a result of the acquisitions we have made, we also own U.S. and foreign trademarks and a portfolio of domain names. 

We grant access to individuals to use our software in order to utilize our online learning systems. Similarly, schools are granted access to utilize our online learning systems in order to access TotalView and our other systems. These licenses are intended to protect our ownership and the confidentiality of the embedded information and technology contained in our software and systems. We also own many of the trademarks and service marks that we use as part of the student recruitment and branding services we provide to schools. Those marks are licensed to the schools for use during the term of the products and services agreements. 

Our employees, contractors and other parties with access to our confidential information sign agreements that prohibit the unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary rights, information and technology. 

Employees 

As of June 30, 2016, we had approximately 4,800 employees, including approximately 2,500 teachers. A majority of these employees are located in the United States. In addition, there are approximately 2,000 teachers who are employed by virtual or blended public schools that we manage under turn-key solution 

contracts with those schools but are not direct employees of K12. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement; however, certain managed public schools we serve employ unionized teachers. We believe that our employee relations are good. 

Corporate Information 

Our principal executive office is located at 2300 Corporate Park Drive, Herndon, Virginia 20171 and our telephone number is (703) 483-7000. Our website address is www.K12.com. 

Available Information 

We make available, free of charge through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), promptly after they are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Our earnings conference calls are web cast live via our website. In addition to visiting our website, you may read and copy public reports we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549, or at www.sec.gov. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Information contained on our website is expressly not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 

REGULATION 

We and the virtual and blended public schools that we serve are subject to regulation by each of the states in which we operate. The state laws and regulations that impact our business are primarily those that authorize or restrict our ability to operate these schools, as well as the applicable funding mechanisms for the schools. To the extent these schools receive federal funds, such as through a grant program or financial support dedicated for the education of low-income families, these schools also become subject to additional federal regulation. 

State Laws Authorizing or Restricting Virtual and Blended Public Schools. The authority to operate a virtual or blended public school is dependent on the laws and regulations of each state. Laws and regulations vary significantly from one state to the next and are constantly evolving. In states that have implemented specific legislation to support virtual and blended public schools, the schools are able to operate under these statutes. Other states provide for virtual and blended public schools under existing public charter school legislation or provide that school districts and/or state education agencies may authorize them. Some states do not currently have legislation that provides for virtual and blended public schools or have requirements that effectively prohibit such schools and, as a result, may require new legislation before virtual and blended public schools can open in the state. We currently serve virtual and blended public schools or school district-led programs in 33 states plus the District of Columbia. 

Obtaining new legislation in the remaining states can be a protracted and uncertain process. When determining whether to pursue expansion into new states in which the laws are ambiguous, we research the relevant legislation and political climate and then make an assessment of the perceived likelihood of success before deciding to commit resources. Specifically, we take into account numerous factors including, but not limited to, the regulations of the state educational authorities, whether the overall political environment is amenable to school choice, whether current funding levels for virtual school and blended schools enrollments are adequate and accessible, and the presence of non-profit and for-profit competitors in the state. 

State Laws and Regulations Applicable to Virtual and Blended Public Schools. Virtual and blended public schools that purchase our curriculum and management services are often governed and overseen by a non-profit or a local or state education agency, such as an independent public charter school board, local school district or state education authority. We generally receive funds for products and services rendered 

to operate virtual public schools or blended schools under detailed service agreements with that governing authority. Virtual and blended public schools are typically funded by state or local governments on a per student basis. A virtual or blended public school that fails to comply with the state laws and regulations applicable to it may be required to repay these funds and could become ineligible for receipt of future state funds. 

To be eligible for state funding, some states require that virtual and blended public schools be organized as not-for-profit charters exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The schools must then be organized exclusively for charitable educational purposes, and not for the benefit of private, for-profit management companies. The board or governing authority of the not-for-profit virtual or blended public school must retain ultimate accountability and control for the school's operations to retain its tax-exempt status. It may not delegate its responsibility and accountability for the school's operations. Our service agreements with these virtual and blended public schools are therefore structured to ensure the full independence of the not-for-profit board and preserve its arms-length ability to exercise its fiduciary obligations to operate a virtual or blended public school. 

Laws and regulations affect many aspects of operating a virtual or blended public school. They can dictate the content and sequence of the curriculum, the methods for counting student enrollments for funding purposes, graduation requirements, use of approved textbooks, the length of the school year and the school day, the accessibility of curriculum and technology to students with disabilities, teacher:student ratios, the assessment of student performance and any accountability requirements. In addition, a virtual or blended public school may be obligated to comply with states' requirements to offer programs for specific populations, such as students at risk of dropping out of school, advanced and talented students, non-English speaking students, pre-kindergarten students and students with disabilities. Tutoring services and the use of technology may also be regulated. Other state laws and regulations may affect the school's compulsory attendance requirements, treatment of absences and make-up work, and access by parents to student records and teaching and testing materials. 

In addition to federal laws protecting the privacy of student education records, a growing number of states are enacting laws to protect the privacy of student data and to guard against its misuse. As a general matter these laws are designed to prevent third-party vendors to schools from using student data for non-educational purposes and ensuring the security of personally identifiable information. In addition, virtual or blended public schools may have to comply with state requirements that school campuses report various types of data as performance indicators of the success of the program. 

States have laws and regulations concerning certification, training, experience and continued professional development of teachers and staff with which a virtual or blended public school may be required to comply. There are also numerous laws pertaining to employee salaries and benefits, statewide teacher retirement systems, workers' compensation, unemployment benefits and matters related to employment agreements and procedures for termination of school employees. A virtual or blended public school must also comply with requirements for performing criminal background checks on school staff, reporting criminal activity by school staff and reporting suspected child abuse. 

As with any public school, virtual and blended public schools must comply with state laws and regulations applicable to governmental entities, such as open meetings or sunshine laws, which may require the board of trustees of a virtual or blended public school to provide advance public notice of and hold its meetings open to the public unless an exception in the law allows an executive session. Failure to comply with these requirements may lead to personal civil and/or criminal penalties for board members or officers or the invalidation of actions taken during meetings that were not properly noticed and open to the public. Virtual and blended public schools must also comply with public information or open records laws, which require them to make school records available for public inspection, review and copying unless a specific 

exemption in the law applies. Additionally laws pertaining to records privacy and retention and to standards for maintenance of records apply to virtual and blended public schools. 

Other types of regulation applicable to virtual and blended public schools include restrictions on the use of public funds, the types of investments made with public funds, the collection of and use of student fees and controlling accounting and financial management practices. 

There remains uncertainty about the extent to which virtual and blended public schools we serve may be required to comply with state laws and regulations applicable to traditional public schools because the concept of virtual and blended public schools is still evolving, especially as technology advances. Although we receive state funds indirectly, according to the terms of each service agreement with the local public school entity, our receipt of state funds subjects us to extensive state regulation and scrutiny. States routinely conduct audits of these schools, to verify enrollment, attendance, information technology security, fiscal accountability, special education services and other regulatory issues. While we may believe that a virtual public school or blended school we serve is compliant with state law, an agency's different interpretation of law in a particular state, or the application of facts to such law, could result in findings of non-compliance, potentially affecting future funding or repayment of past funding. 

Regulations Restricting Virtual and Blended Public School Growth and Funding. As a public schooling alternative, some state and regulatory authorities have elected to proceed cautiously with virtual and blended public schools while providing opportunities for taxpayer families seeking this alternative. Statutes, regulations or policies that control the growth of virtual and blended public schools range from setting caps on statewide student enrollments, to prescribing the number of schools in a state, to limiting the percentage of time students may receive instruction online. Funding regulations can also have this effect. 

Statutes or regulations that hinder our ability to serve certain jurisdictions include: restrictions on student eligibility, such as mandating attendance at a traditional public school prior to enrolling in a virtual or blended public school; caps on the total number of students in a virtual or blended public school; restrictions on grade levels served; geographic limitations on enrollments; fixing the percentage of per pupil funding that must be paid to teachers; state-specific curriculum requirements; and limits on the number of charters that can be granted in a state. 

Funding regulations for virtual public schools and blended schools can take a variety of forms. These regulations include: (i) attendance&#151;some state daily attendance rules were designed for traditional classroom procedures and applying them to track daily attendance and truancy in an online setting can cause disputes to arise over interpretation and funding; (ii) enrollment eligibility&#151;some states place restrictions on the students seeking to enroll in virtual and blended public schools, resulting in lower aggregate funding levels; and (iii) teacher contact time&#151;some states have regulations that specify minimum levels of teacher-student face-to-face time. These regulations can create logistical challenges for statewide virtual and blended public schools, reduce funding and eliminate some of the economic, academic and technological advantages of virtual learning. 

Federal and State Grants. We have worked with some entities to secure public and grant funding that flows to virtual and blended public schools that we serve. These grants are awarded to the not-for-profit entity that holds the charter of the virtual or blended public school on a competitive basis in some instances and on an entitlement basis in other instances. Grants awarded to public schools and programs&#151;whether by a federal or state agency or nongovernmental organization&#151;often include reporting requirements, procedures and obligations. 

Foreign Laws and Regulations. Schools we operate in other countries are subject to local laws and regulations. We oversee and rely on the administrators in each school on a continuous basis and seek the advice of local legal and regulatory experts as-needed. 

Federal Laws Applicable to Virtual Public Schools and Blended Schools 

Five primary federal laws are directly applicable to the day-to-day provision of educational services we provide to virtual and blended public schools: 

No Child Left Behind Act ("NCLB") and Every Student Succeeds Act ("ESSA") 

In December 2015, the NCLB amendments to the Elementary and Secondary Education Act were replaced by a new federal law known as the Every Student Succeeds Act, which took effect on August 2, 2016, and is authorized for four years. The ESSA represents a major change in federal education law by shifting education policy decision making back to the states and by providing most funding through block grants, rather than through individual programs as prescribed under NCLB. Of particular significance to the Company is that the states will now have the discretion to develop and design their own assessment systems in the coming years. In addition, states have been given the authority to adopt different types of annual accountability standards for academic achievement, including proficiency and growth standards for all students and subgroups. The ESSA makes clear that the U.S. Department of Education has a more limited role to impose federal mandates, direction or control over the authority given to the states than before under NCLB. Finally, there are provisions that provide significant grants to support the start up of new charter schools with priority to states that serve at-risk students through dropout prevention and recovery and other grants to support language instruction for English language learners and immigrant students. 

Key changes under the newly reauthorized ESSA law include: (i) Adequate Yearly Progress ("AYP") has been eliminated; (ii) Highly Qualified teachers provision eliminated; (iii) Testing/Accountability remains for grades 3-8 and once in high school but there are no prescribed sanctions; and (iv) computer adaptive testing can now be used for accountability assessments but must include a "growth" component. ESSA is to be fully implemented by school year 2017-18, and previous NCLB waivers become null and void as of August 1, 2016. School year 2016-17 will be a planning year as local education agencies and state education agencies are required to submit accountability plans to the U.S. Department of Education by June 2017. 

Individuals with Disabilities Education Act ("IDEA"). The IDEA is implemented through regulations governing every aspect of the special education of a child with one or more of the specific disabilities listed in the Act. The IDEA created a responsibility on the part of a school to identify students who may qualify under the IDEA and to perform periodic assessments to determine the students' needs for services. A student who qualifies for services under the IDEA must have in place an individual education plan, which must be updated at least annually, created by a team consisting of school personnel, the student, and the parent. This plan must be implemented in a setting where the child with a disability is educated with non-disabled peers to the maximum extent appropriate. The Act provides the student and parents with numerous due process rights relating to the student's program and education, including the right to seek mediation of disputes and make complaints to the state education agency. The schools we manage are responsible for ensuring the requirements of this Act are met. The virtual public schools and blended schools are required to comply with certain requirements in the Act concerning teacher certification and training. We, the virtual public school or the blended school could be required to provide additional staff, related services and supplemental aids and services at our own cost to comply with the requirement to provide a free appropriate public education to each child covered under the IDEA. If we fail to meet this requirement, we, the virtual public school or blended school could lose federal funding and could be liable for compensatory educational services, reimbursement to the parent for educational service the parent provided and payment of the parent's attorney's fees. 

Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. A virtual public school or blended school receiving federal funds is subject to Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ("Section 504") insofar as the regulations implementing the Act govern the education of students with disabilities as well as 

personnel and parents. Section 504 prohibits discrimination against a person on the basis of disability in any program receiving federal financial assistance if the person is otherwise qualified to participate in or receive benefit from the program. Students with disabilities not specifically listed in the IDEA may be entitled to specialized instruction or related services pursuant to Section 504 if their disability substantially limits a major life activity. Beginning in 2011, the Office of Civil Rights ("OCR") of the United States Department of Education interpreted both Section 504 and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act to apply to elementary and secondary schools and to require that students with disabilities be afforded substantially equivalent ease of use as students without disabilities. As applied to online public schools, such "web accessibility" requires technical capabilities similar to those applied to procurements of information technology by the federal government under Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act or 1973 ("Section 508") or standards adopted by the world-wide web consortium. If a school fails to comply with the requirements and the procedural safeguards of Section 504, it may lose federal funds even though these funds flow indirectly to the school through a local board. In the case of bad faith or intentional wrongdoing, some courts have awarded monetary damages to prevailing parties in Section 504 lawsuits. In May 2016, the U.S. Department of Justice issued a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking soliciting additional public comments on the appropriate standard for determining Web accessibility compliance under Section 508 and Title II of the ADA and allowed two years for covered entities to come into full compliance after issuance of its final rules. 

Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. Virtual public schools and blended schools are also subject to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act ("FERPA") which protects the privacy of a student's educational records and generally prohibits a school from disclosing a student's records to a third party without the parent's prior consent. The law also gives parents certain procedural rights with respect to their minor children's education records. A school's failure to comply with this law may result in termination of its eligibility to receive federal education funds. 

Communications Decency Act. The Communications Decency Act of 1996 ("CDA") provides protection for online service providers against legal action being taken against them because of certain actions of others. For example, the CDA states that no provider or user of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the publisher or speaker of any data given by another provider of information content. Further, Section 230 of the CDA grants interactive online services of all types, broad immunity from tort liability so long as the information at issue is provided or posted by a third party. As part of our technology services offering, we provide an online school platform on which teachers and students may communicate. We also conduct live classroom sessions using Internet-based collaboration software and we may offer certain online community platforms for students and parents. While the CDA affords us with some protection from liability associated with the interactive online services we offer, there are exceptions to the CDA that could result in successful actions against us that give rise to financial liability. 

Other Federal Laws. Other federal laws that may apply to virtual managed schools depend on the demographics associated with that school. For example, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 has been deemed to apply to ELL Students, as further defined in the joint guidance issued by the U.S. Departments of Justice and Education in January 2015. There are also other federal laws and regulations that affect other aspects of our business such as the identify theft rules adopted by the Federal Trade Commission and for which we have adopted policies to ensure compliance. The Children's Internet Protection Act requires that school districts that receive certain types of federal funding must ensure that they have technology which blocks or filters certain material from being accessed through the Internet. We have developed procedures by which computers that we ship to students meet this requirement. If we fail to comply with these and other federal laws, we could be determined ineligible to receive funds from federal programs or face penalties. 

