 Item 1. 

Business. 

The Company 

We were initially incorporated on November 4, 1999, as Menu Sites, Inc., a Florida corporation. On March 9, 2001, we changed our name to CNE Communications, Inc. On October 1, 2004, we changed our name to CNE Industries, Inc. On March 29, 2005, we changed our name to GlobalTel IP, Inc. On May 9, 2008, we changed our name to Cleartronic, Inc.

All of our operations are conducted through our wholly owned subsidiaries, VoiceInterop, Inc., a Florida corporation, incorporated on November 13, 2007, and ReadyOp Communications, Inc., a Florida corporation, incorporated on September 15, 2014, which facilitate the marketing and sales of ReadyOp &#8482; software, discussed below.

Business Overview 

We do not currently have sufficient capital to conduct the present or proposed business activities described below. The costs to operate our business are approximately $30,000 per month. In order for us to cover our monthly operating expenses, we must generate revenues of approximately $75,000 per month. Accordingly, in the absence of revenues, we must secure $30,000 in equity or debt capital each month to cover our overhead expenses. In order to remain in business for one year without any revenues, we must secure $360,000 in equity or debt capital. If we are unsuccessful in securing sufficient capital or revenues, we will be unable to continue any business activities. We have not obtained any commitments for additional capital, and we may not be able to obtain any additional capital on terms not unfavorable to us, if at all.

From March 2005 to October 2007, we were primarily engaged in providing telecommunications services to our customers employing Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technology. In October 2007, we sold substantially all of our assets utilized in that business. Prior to 2005, we were a website development company.

We are now a provider of Internet Protocol, or IP, unified group communication solutions. The products used in our solutions include our own proprietary products as well as products from other software and hardware vendors.

We have designed and customized standards based audio and voice collaboration solutions for prospective customers as part of a unified group communication system. We consider all aspects of a potential customer&#146;s information technology resources and existing telecommunications network in creating a design best suited for that customer. In 2013, we developed our own proprietary group communication solution and have built and installed four of these solutions as of the filing date of this report. Prior to developing our own solution we used WAVE software as the core component. We have designed, built and installed 18 unified group communication solutions as of the filing date of this report, 14 of which utilize WAVE software. In November 2013, we discontinued using WAVE software as a component in our unified communication solution installations.

Revenues have been generated from the design, construction and installation of the group communication systems. We have also generated revenues from maintenance and support contracts, once a unified group communication solution has been installed and tested. While we no longer sell WAVE based systems we will continue to support the installations that we have previously installed. We also sell our proprietary line of Internet Protocol Gateway which we have branded the AudioMate 360 IP Gateway , discussed below. These units are currently being sold directly to end-users and by Value Added Resellers (&#147;VARs&#148;). As of the date of this filing, we have approximately 10 active VARs, and we have sold our gateways to more than 1,000 end-users in the United States and 18 foreign countries.

Prior to and subsequent to sales we have made to four airport authorities, we have had discussions with approximately 10 other airport authorities as well as airlines in the United States and abroad to design, build and install voice interoperability solutions. Those discussions have not resulted in any sales.

&#160;

&#160;

We have developed an Internet Protocol Gateway which we call the AudioMate 360 IP Gateway . The AudioMate 360 IP Gateway has been designed to provide an Internet Protocol Gateway to users of unified group communications. The AudioMate 360 IP Gateway is available in different configurations which enable it to be used with various types of communications equipment.

Although other devices are available that perform the same or similar functions, we believe that our price for the AudioMate 360 IP Gateway is substantially lower than the prices others are presently charging for similar devices. If we are unable to provide the AudioMate 360 IP Gateway to our prospective customers at substantially lower prices than others are charging for similar gateways, our business will be materially adversely affected.

We do not have any other products at this time.

Our Agreement with Collabria 

In March 2015, the Company amended its Licensing Agreement with Collabria LLC of Tampa, Florida (&#148;Collabria&#148;). The Agreement grants the Company master distribution rights to market, sell and support Collabria&#146;s command and control software, trade-named ReadyOp. ReadyOp software is designed for fast, efficient access to information and for communication with multiple persons, groups and agencies. This agreement will remain in effect for an initial term of five years unless either the Company or Collabria sooner terminates the agreement. Upon expiration of the agreement, the Company&#146;s only obligation to Collabria shall be the payment of all outstanding obligations to Collabria. In September 2014, the Company formed ReadyOp Communications, Inc. (a Florida corporation), as a wholly owned subsidiary to facilitate the marketing of ReadyOp software. According to the terms of the agreement ReadyOp Communications will pay Collabria a royalty for all ReadyOp software sold.

&#160;

Need for Unified Group Communications 

Unified group communications and coordination within and between agencies for response actions to incidents and emergencies has been a challenge for many years. The result has been inefficiencies and in some cases the loss of lives, time and money during response activities. Governmental agencies, hospitals and other organizations experience these same interoperability failures.

We believe that Collabria&#146;s ReadyOp&#8482; software is a new approach to communication, coordination and interoperability that is simple, flexible, low-cost and is already in use by many agencies and enterprises in the governmental and private sectors.

Collabria&#8217;s ReadyOp&#8482; Software 

ReadyOp is a simple, innovative web-based planning and communications platform for efficiently and effectively planning, managing, communicating, and directing activities within a single organization or in a unified command structure. ReadyOp is a comprehensive solution with multiple means of communications in a single program, including interoperable communications for radios and other devices. ReadyOp &#146;s flexibility supports daily operations, exercises and response activities including multi-agency and multi-location operations. ReadyOp is a single platform that provides communications, coordination, collaboration and critical response capabilities for first responders and other organizations.

Communication challenges and coordination failures within and between organizations have been well documented and remain a part of the final report for most every exercise and major incident. This is especially evident when multiple agencies are involved in a response effort. In 2003, Homeland Security Presidential Directive-5 (HSPD-5) created the National Incident Management System (NIMS). NIMS is intended to provide a consistent template for government, private sector, and nongovernment organizations to work together during incidents and emergencies.

NIMS was used to create the Incident Command System (ICS) for first responders. ICS is essentially an organizational chart with assigned roles for responsibilities during incident response. Each role has assigned tasks to be accomplished, the goal being that all persons assuming the various roles complete their assigned tasks. Use of ICS is mandated for all law enforcement, fire and other government agencies at all levels plus seaports, airports, universities and hospitals. ReadyOp was initially designed based on the structure of ICS, but has evolved into a full response and communications platform.

Patents and Intellectual Property 

If we are able to continue our business activities, our business will be dependent on our intellectual property, some of which we have developed for our software and hardware applications. We do not have any trade secret confidentiality agreements. For projects that are in development, we intend to rely on intellectual property rights afforded by trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights to our technology and other intellectual property. We cannot foretell if these procedures and arrangements will be adequate in protecting our intellectual property.

&#160;

&#160;

We have filed a patent application with the United States Patent and Trademark Office in connection with various configurations of our AudioMate 360 IP Gateway. We may file similar patent applications in additional countries. The claims in the patent application relate to various aspects of the AudioMate 360 IP Gateway . On March 13, 2012, the United States Patent Office notified us that U.S. Patent number 8,135,001 B1 had been granted for the 34 claims of our patent application for Multi Ad Hoc Interoperable Communicating Networks. It may be that one or more of our claims are not meaningful. Furthermore, the validity of issued patents is frequently challenged by others. One or more patent applications may have been filed by others previous to our filing, which encompass the same or similar claims.

A patent application does not in and of itself grant exclusive rights. A patent application must be reviewed by the Patent Office of each relevant country prior to issuing as a patent and granting exclusive rights.

We do not have any trademarks.

Because of our limited resources, we may be unable to protect a patent, either owned or licensed, or to challenge others who may infringe upon a patent. Because many holders of patents in our industry have substantially greater resources than we do and patent litigation is very expensive, we may not have the resources necessary to successfully challenge the validity of patents held by others or withstand claims of infringement or challenges to any patent we may obtain. Even if we prevail, the cost and management distraction of litigation could have a material adverse affect on us.

Because Internet Protocol Gateways and their related manufacturing processes are covered by a large number of patents and patent applications, infringement actions may be instituted against us if we use or are suspected of using technology, processes or other subject matter that is claimed under patents of others. An adverse outcome in any future patent dispute could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed or require us to cease using the infringed technology.

If trade secrets and other means of protection upon which we rely may not adequately protect us, our intellectual property could become available to others. Although we may rely on trade secrets, copyright law, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect some of our intellectual property, these measures may not provide meaningful protection to us.

The laws of many foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, if at all.

Rapid Technological Change Could Render Our Products Obsolete 

Our markets are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer requirements, and evolving industry standards. The introduction of new products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete. Our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to develop and introduce a variety of new products and product enhancements to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. We may experience delays in releasing new products and product enhancements in the future. Material delays in introducing new products or product enhancements may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and purchase those of our competitors.

Seasonality of Our Business 

We do not anticipate that our business will be affected by seasonal factors.

Impact of Inflation 

We are affected by inflation along with the rest of the economy. Specifically, our costs to complete our products could rise if specific components needed incur a rise in cost.

Manufacturing and Suppliers 

We have outsourced the manufacturing of our AudioMate 360 IP Gateway . This outsourcing has allowed us to:

&#183; 

Avoid costly capital expenditures for the establishment of manufacturing operations; 

&#183; 

Focus on the design, development, sales and support of our hardware products; and 

&#183; 

Leverage the scale, expertise and purchasing power of specialized contract manufacturers. 

Currently, we have arrangements for the production of our gateways with a contract manufacturer in Florida. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves a number of potential risks, including the absence of adequate capacity, ownership of certain elements of electronic designs, and reduced control over delivery schedules. Our contract manufacturers can provide us with a range of operational and manufacturing services, including component procurement and performing final testing and assembly of our products. We intend to depend on our contract manufacturers to procure components and to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity.

We have also relied on a small number of suppliers for several key components utilized in the assembly of our AudioMate 360 IP Gateway . For example, our contract manufacturer has purchased a key component that is essential to the production of our gateways from a single source supplier. We have not identified any alternative suppliers for that component. Our contract manufacturer has maintained relatively low inventories and acquired components only as needed. As a result, our ability to efficiently respond to customer orders, if any, may be constrained by, among other things, the then-current availability or terms and pricing of necessary components. We may be unable to obtain a sufficient quantity of these components in a timely manner to meet the demands of our customers. In addition, we have no control over the prices of these components. Any delays or any disruption of the supply of these components could also materially and adversely affect our operating results.

Approximately, 20% of the revenues generated during the year ended September 30, 2015 were generated from our licensing agreement with Collabria. If this agreement is terminated it could have significant on impact on revenues.

Competition 

The unified group communications industry is extremely competitive. Over the past year, the number of companies entering our industry has increased dramatically. Competitive pricing pressures can negatively impact profit margins, if any. Competitors include Cisco Systems, Inc., Tyco Electronics Ltd., Catalyst Communications Technologies, Inc., Telex, Inc., Federal Signal Corporation and Mutual-Link, Inc. as well as Motorola and its authorized dealers. These and other potential competitors are generally large and well capitalized and have substantially more experience than we do in our industry. Consequently, in order for Cleartronic to be successful in its intended operations, it must be able to compete effectively against its competitors. If Cleartronic cannot effectively compete for whatever reason, we will not be successful.

Sales and Marketing 

We have marketed our unified group communication solutions and AudioMate 360 IP Gateway through a commissioned sales person. The majority of our sales leads have come through sales persons, VARs and our website. If we are able to continue our business activities, we intend to expand the use of commissioned sales representatives to market and sell the ReadyOp&#8482; software solution along with our AudioMate 360 IP Gateway line of Internet Protocol Gateways. We will also continue to use our network of VARs to market our AudioMate 360 IP Gateway .

Key Personnel of Cleartronic 

Our future financial success depends to a large degree upon the personal efforts of our key personnel. Larry M. Reid, our Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, Secretary, and Director, and his intended designees will play the major roles in securing the services of those persons deemed capable to develop and execute upon our business strategy. While we intend to employ additional executive, development, and technical personnel in order to minimize the critical dependency upon any one person, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the persons needed.

At present, Cleartronic has one executive officer, Larry M. Reid. In March 2015, the Company entered into a new employment agreement with the Company&#146;s CEO, Larry M. Reid (the &#147;Agreement&#148;). Under the Agreement, Mr. Reid agreed to remit 2.0 billion shares of common stock back to the Company in exchange for 200,000 shares of Series C Convertible Preferred stock with a fair value of $252,000.

Unless Cleartronic shall have given Mr. Reid written notice at least 30 days prior to the Termination Date, the Agreement shall automatically renew and continue in effect for additional one-year periods, provided, however, that we may, at our election at any time after the expiration of the initial term of the Agreement, give Mr. Reid notice of Termination. 

Mr. Reid will be paid a base salary of $8,000 per month. A copy of the employment agreement with Mr. Reid has been previously filed on March 18, 2015 with the SEC as an exhibit to a Form 8-K. See &#147;Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence.&#148;

Adequacy of Working Capital for Cleartronic 

We estimate that we will need at least $360,000 to continue operations over the next 12 months. We will apply great efforts to raise though equity or debt offerings what we feel is sufficient working capital for our intended business plan by various means. If we are not able to raise additional capital, we will not be able to continue operations and our business may fail.

&#160;

&#160;

The Financial Results for Cleartronic May Be Affected by Factors Outside of Our Control 

Our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Our anticipated expense levels are based, in part, on our estimates of future revenues and may vary from projections. We may be unable to adjust spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenues shortfall. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenues in relation to our planned expenditures would materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Further, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future performance.

Employees 

As of the date of this report, we have one employee, Larry M. Reid, our Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, Secretary, and sole Director. We anticipate adding two additional employees in the next 12 months. We do not feel that we would have any difficulty in locating needed staff.

Transfer Agent 

Our transfer agent is ClearTrust, LLC, whose address is 16540 Pointe Village Drive, Suite 206, Lutz, Florida 33558, and telephone number (813) 235-4490.

Company Contact Information 

Our principal executive offices are located at 8000 North Federal Highway, Suite 100, Boca Raton, Florida 33487, telephone (561) 939-3300. Our email address is info@cleartronic.com. The Cleartronic Internet website is located at www.cleartronic.com. The information contained in our website shall not constitute part of this report.

