 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Spirit Airlines is an ultra low-cost, low-fare airline that offers affordable travel to price-conscious customers. Our all-Airbus Fit Fleet TM , the youngest fleet of any major U.S. airline, currently operates more than 385 &#32;daily flights to 56 &#32;destinations in the United States, Caribbean and Latin America. Our stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market under the symbol "SAVE." 

Our ultra low-cost carrier, or ULCC, business model allows us to compete principally by offering customers our Bare Fares TM , which are unbundled base fares that remove components traditionally included in the price of an airline ticket. We then give customers Frill Control TM , which provides customers the freedom to save by paying only for the options they choose such as bags, advance seat assignments and refreshments. We record revenue related to these options in our financial statements as non-ticket revenue. 

Our History and Corporate Information 

We were founded in 1964 as Clippert Trucking Company, a Michigan corporation. We began air charter operations in 1990 and renamed ourselves Spirit Airlines, Inc. in 1992. In 1994, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in 1999 we relocated our headquarters to Miramar, Florida. 

Our mailing address and executive offices are located at 2800 Executive Way, Miramar, Florida 33025, and our telephone number at that address is (954) 447-7920. We are subject to the information and periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act, and, in accordance therewith, file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission or SEC. Such periodic reports, proxy statements and other information are available for inspection and copying at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549 or may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov &#32;that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We also post on the Investor Relations page of our website, www.spirit.com , a link to our filings with the SEC, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all directors and all our employees, and the charters of our Audit, Compensation, Finance, Safety, Security and Operations and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees. Our filings with the SEC are posted as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Please note that information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, this report. You can also obtain copies of these documents free of charge by writing to us at: Corporate Secretary, Spirit Airlines, Inc., 2800 Executive Way, Miramar, Florida 33025. 

Our Business Model 

Our ULCC business model provides customers low, unbundled base fares with a range of optional services, allowing customers the freedom to choose only the options they value. The success of our model is driven by our low cost structure, which permits us to offer low base fares while maintaining high profit margins. 

We are focused on price-sensitive travelers who pay for their own travel, and our business model is designed to deliver what we believe our customers want: low fares. We aggressively use low fares to address an underserved market, which helps us to increase passenger volume, load factors and non-ticket revenue on the flights we operate. We also have high-density seating configurations on our aircraft and a simplified onboard product designed to lower costs, which is part of our Plane Simple TM strategy. High passenger volumes and load factors help us sell more ancillary products and services, which in turn allows us to reduce the base fare we offer even further. We strive to be recognized by our customers and potential customers as the low-fare leader in the markets we serve. 

We compete based on total price. We believe other airlines have used an all-inclusive price concept to effectively maintain higher total prices to consumers, rather than lowering fares by unbundling each product or service. For example, carriers that tout &#8220;free bags&#8221; have included the cost of checking bags in the total ticket price, which does not allow passengers to see how much they would save if they did not check luggage. We believe that we and our customers benefit when we allow our customers to know the total price of their travel by breaking out the cost of optional products or services. 

We allow our customers to see all available options and their respective prices prior to purchasing a ticket, and this full transparency illustrates that our total price, including options selected, is lower than other airlines on average. In 2014, we 

launched a new brand campaign, which we continued in 2015, to educate the public on how Spirit's unbundled pricing model works and how that gives them choice and saves them money compared to other airlines. 

Our Strengths 

We believe we compete successfully in the airline industry by leveraging the following demonstrated business strengths: 

Ultra-Low Cost Structure . Our unit operating costs are among the lowest of all airlines operating in the United States. We believe this unit cost advantage helps protect our market position and enables us to offer some of the lowest base fares in our markets, sustain among the highest operating margins in our industry and support continued growth. Our operating costs per available seat mile (CASM) of 7.68 cent s in 2015 &#32;were significantly lower than those of the major domestic network carriers and among the lowest of the domestic low-cost carriers. We achieve these low unit operating costs in large part due to: 

&#8226; 

high aircraft utilization; 

&#8226; 

high-density seating configurations on our aircraft, which is part of our Plane Simple TM strategy along with simplified onboard product designed to lower costs; 

&#8226; 

no hub-and-spoke network inefficiencies; 

&#8226; 

highly productive workforce; 

&#8226; 

opportunistic outsourcing of operating functions; 

&#8226; 

operating our Fit Fleet TM , a single-fleet type of Airbus A320-family aircraft that is the youngest fleet of any major U.S. airline and operated by common flight crews; 

&#8226; 

reduced sales, marketing and distribution costs through direct-to-consumer marketing; 

&#8226; 

efficient flight scheduling, including minimal ground times between flights; and 

&#8226; 

a company-wide business culture that is keenly focused on driving costs lower. 

Innovative Revenue Generation . We execute our innovative, unbundled pricing strategy to generate significant non-ticket revenue, which allows us to lower base fares and enables our passengers to identify, select and pay for only the products and services they want to use. In implementing our unbundled strategy, we have grown average non-ticket revenue per passenger flight segment from approximately $5 in 2006 to $54 &#32;in 2015 &#32;by: 

&#8226; 

charging for checked and carry-on baggage; 

&#8226; 

passing through all distribution-related expenses; 

&#8226; 

charging for premium seats and advance seat selection; 

&#8226; 

maintaining consistent ticketing policies, including service charges for changes and cancellations; 

&#8226; 

generating subscription revenue from our $9 Fare Club low-fare subscription service; 

&#8226; 

deriving brand-based revenues from proprietary services, such as our FREE SPIRIT affinity credit card program; 

&#8226; 

offering third-party travel products (travel packages), such as hotel rooms, ground transportation (rental and hotel shuttle products) and attractions (show or theme park tickets) packaged with air travel on our website; 

&#8226; 

selling third-party travel insurance through our website; and 

&#8226; 

selling onboard advertising. 

Resilient Business Model and Customer Base . By focusing on price-sensitive travelers, we have maintained profitability during volatile economic periods because we are not highly dependent on premium-fare business traffic. We believe our growing customer base is more resilient than the customer bases of most other airlines because our low fares and unbundled service offering appeal to price-sensitive travelers. In 2015, low oil prices coupled with increased competition in the U.S. drove lower unit revenues, but lower costs produced margins that remain higher than most of our domestic network peers. 

Well Positioned for Growth . We have developed a substantial network of destinations in profitable U.S. domestic niche markets, targeted growth markets in the Caribbean and Latin America and high-volume routes flown by price-sensitive travelers. In the United States, we also have grown into large markets that, due to higher fares, have priced out those more price-sensitive travelers. We seek to balance growth between large domestic markets, niche markets and opportunities in the Caribbean and Latin America according to current economic and industry conditions. 

Experienced International Operator. &#32;We believe we have substantial experience in foreign local aviation, security and customs regulations, local ground operations and flight crew training required for successful international and overwater flight operations. All of our aircraft are certified for overwater operations. We believe we compete favorably against other low-cost carriers because we have been conducting international flight operations since 2003 and have developed substantial experience in complying with the various regulations and business practices in the international markets we serve. During 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , no revenue from any one foreign country represented greater than 4% &#32;of the our total passenger revenue. We attribute operating revenues by geographic region based upon the origin and destination of each passenger flight segment. 

Financial Strength Achieved with Focus on Cost Discipline . We believe our ULCC business model has delivered strong financial results in both favorable and more difficult economic times. We have generated these results by: 

&#8226; 

keeping a consistent focus on maintaining low unit operating costs; 

&#8226; 

ensuring our sourcing arrangements with key third parties are regularly benchmarked against the best industry standards; 

&#8226; 

generating and maintaining an adequate level of liquidity to insulate against volatility in key cost inputs, such as fuel, and in passenger demand that may occur as a result of changing general economic conditions. 

Route Network 

As of December 31, 2015 , our route network included 191 &#32;markets served by 56 &#32;airports throughout North America, Central America, South America and the Caribbean. 

Below is a route map of our current network, which includes seasonal routes and routes announced as of February 8, 2016 for which service has not yet started: 

Our network expansion targets underserved and/or overpriced markets. We employ a rigorous process to identify opportunities to deploy new aircraft where we believe they will be most profitable. To monitor the profitability of each route, we analyze weekly and monthly profitability reports as well as near term forecasting. 

Competition 

The airline industry is highly competitive. The principal competitive factors in the airline industry are fare pricing, total price, flight schedules, aircraft type, passenger amenities, number of routes served from a city, customer service, safety record and reputation, code-sharing relationships and frequent flier programs and redemption opportunities. Our competitors and potential competitors include traditional network airlines, other low-cost carriers and ULCCs, and regional airlines. We typically compete in markets served by traditional network airlines, and other low-cost carriers and ULCCs, and, to a lesser extent, regional airlines. 

As of December 31, 2015, our top two largest network overlaps are with Southwest Airlines and American Airlines at approximately 55% and 50% of our markets, respectively. Our principal competitors on domestic routes are Southwest Airlines, American Airlines, United Airlines and Delta Air Lines. Our principal competitors for service from South Florida to our markets in the Caribbean and Latin America are American Airlines, through its hub in Miami, and JetBlue Airways and Southwest Airlines, through their operations in Fort Lauderdale. Our principal competitive advantage is our low base fares. We are able to offer low fares profitably, due to our low unit operating costs, which in 2015 &#32;were among the lowest in the U.S. airline industry. In difficult economic or competitive environments, we believe our low unit costs coupled with our relatively stable non-ticket revenues allow us to price our fares at levels where we can be profitable while our primary competitors cannot. 

The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because, once a flight is scheduled, airlines incur only nominal incremental costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. The expenses of a scheduled aircraft flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried and, as a result, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing could have a disproportionate effect on an airline&#8217;s operating and financial results. Price competition occurs on a market-by-market basis through price discounts, changes in pricing structures, fare matching, target promotions and frequent flier initiatives. Airlines typically use discount fares and other promotions to stimulate traffic during normally slower travel periods to generate cash flow and to maximize TRASM. The prevalence of discount fares can be particularly acute when a competitor has excess capacity that it is unable to fill at higher rates. A key element to our competitive strategy is to maintain very low unit costs in order to permit us to compete successfully in price-sensitive markets. 

Seasonality 

Our business is subject to significant seasonal fluctuations. We generally expect demand to be greater in the second and third quarters compared to the rest of the year. The air transportation business is also volatile and highly affected by economic cycles and trends. 

Distribution 

The majority of our tickets are sold through direct channels including online via www.spirit.com , our call center and our airport ticket counters, with spirit.com &#32;being the primary channel. We also partner with a number of third parties to distribute our tickets, including online and traditional travel agents and electronic global distribution systems. 

Customers 

We believe our customers are primarily leisure travelers who are paying for their own ticket and who make their purchase decision based largely on price. By maintaining a low cost structure, we can successfully sell tickets at low fares while maintaining a strong profit margin. 

Customer Service 

We are committed to taking care of our customers. We believe focusing on customer service in every aspect of our operations including personnel, flight equipment, in-flight and ancillary amenities, on-time performance, flight completion ratios, and baggage handling will strengthen customer loyalty and attract new customers. We proactively aim to improve our operations to ensure further improvement in customer service. 

In response to customer and other demands, we modified our online booking process to allow our customers to see all available options and their prices prior to purchasing a ticket, and have initiated a campaign that illustrates our total prices are lower, on average, than those of our competitors, even when options are included. 

Fleet 

We fly only Airbus A320 family aircraft, which provides us significant operational and cost advantages compared to airlines that operate multiple aircraft types. By operating a single aircraft type, we avoid the incremental costs of training crews across multiple types. Flight crews are entirely interchangeable across all of our aircraft, and maintenance, spare parts inventories and other operational support remains highly simplified compared to those airlines with more complex fleets. Due to this commonality among Airbus single-aisle aircraft, we can retain the benefits of a fleet comprised of a single type of aircraft while still having the flexibility to match the capacity and range of the aircraft to the demands of each route. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had a fleet of 79 &#32;Airbus single-aisle aircraft, which are commonly referred to as &#8220;A320 family&#8221; aircraft. A320 family aircraft include the A319, A320 and A321 models, which have broadly common design and equipment but differ most notably in fuselage length, service range and seat capacity. Within the A320 family of aircraft, models using existing engine technology may carry the suffix &#8220;ceo,&#8221; denoting the &#8220;current engine option,&#8221; while models equipped with new-generation engines (available starting in 2016) may carry the suffix &#8220;neo,&#8221; denoting the &#8220;new engine option.&#8221; As of December 31, 2015, our fleet consisted of 29 &#32;A319s, 42 &#32;A320s and 8 &#32;A321s, and the average age of the fleet was 5.2 &#32;years. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned 18 &#32;of our aircraft, of which 15 &#32;aircraft are financed through senior and junior long-term debt with terms of 12 &#32;and 7 &#32;years, respectively, and 3 &#32;aircraft are financed through enhanced equipment trust certificates (EETCs). See &#8220;Notes to the Financial Statements&#8212;9. Debt and Other Obligations.&#8221; The remaining 61 &#32;of our aircraft are financed under operating leases with expirations between 2016 &#32;and 2027 . 

As of December 31, 2015 , firm aircraft orders consisted of 87 &#32;A320 family aircraft ( 13 &#32;A320ceos, 40 &#32;A320neos, 24 &#32;A321ceos and 10 &#32;A321neos) with Airbus and an additional 5 &#32;direct operating leases for A320neos with a third-party lessor. As of December 31, 2015 , spare engine orders consisted of four &#32;V2500 SelectOne engines with IAE and nine &#32;PurePower PW 1100G-JM engines with Pratt &#38; Whitney. Aircraft are scheduled for delivery from 2016 &#32;through 2021 &#32;and spare engines are scheduled for delivery from 2017 &#32;through 2023 . The firm aircraft orders provide for capacity growth as well as the flexibility to replace some, none or all of the 79 &#32;aircraft in our present fleet. We may elect to supplement these deliveries by additional acquisitions from the manufacturer or in the open market if demand conditions merit. We also may adjust or defer deliveries, or change models of aircraft in our delivery stream, from time to time, as a means to match our future capacity with anticipated demand and growth trends. 

Consistent with our ULCC business model, each of our aircraft is configured with a high density seating configuration, which helps us maintain a lower unit cost and pass savings to our customers. Our high density seating configuration accommodates more passengers than those of our competitors when comparing the same type of aircraft. 

Maintenance and Repairs 

We have a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) mandated and approved maintenance program, which is administered by our technical services department. Our maintenance technicians undergo extensive initial and ongoing training to ensure the safety of our aircraft. 

Aircraft maintenance and repair consists of routine and non-routine maintenance, and work performed is divided into three general categories: line maintenance, heavy maintenance and component service. Line maintenance consists of routine daily and weekly scheduled maintenance checks on our aircraft, including pre-flight, daily, weekly and overnight checks, and any diagnostics and routine repairs and any unscheduled items on an as needed basis. Line maintenance events are currently serviced by in-house mechanics supplemented by contract labor and are primarily completed at airports we currently serve. Heavy airframe maintenance checks consist of a series of more complex tasks that can take from one to four weeks to accomplish and typically are required approximately every 24 months. Heavy engine maintenance is performed approximately every four to six years and includes a more complex scope of work. Due to our relatively small fleet size and projected fleet growth, we believe outsourcing all of our heavy maintenance activity, such as engine servicing, major part repair and component service repairs is more economical. Outsourcing eliminates the substantial initial capital requirements inherent in heavy aircraft maintenance. We have entered into a long-term flight hour agreement for our current fleet and future deliveries with IAE and Pratt &#38; Whitney for our engine overhaul services and with Lufthansa Technik on an hour-by-hour basis for component services. We outsource our heavy airframe maintenance to FAA-qualified maintenance providers. 

Our recent maintenance expenses have been lower than what we expect to incur in the future because of the relatively young age of our aircraft fleet. Our maintenance costs are expected to increase as the scope of repairs increases with the increasing age of our fleet. As our aircraft age, scheduled scope of work and frequency of unscheduled maintenance events is likely to increase like any maturing fleet. Our aircraft utilization rate could decrease with the increase in aircraft maintenance. 

Employees 

Our business is labor intensive, with labor costs representing approximately 23.2% , 19.9% &#32;and 19.1% &#32;of our total operating costs for 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 1,266 &#32;pilots, 2,075 &#32;flight attendants, 35 &#32;flight dispatchers, 499 &#32;mechanics, 517 &#32;airport agents/other and 455 &#32;employees in administrative roles for a total of 4,847 &#32;employees. As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 73% &#32;of our employees were represented by four labor unions. On an average full-time equivalent basis, for the full year 2015 , we had 4,326 &#32;employees, compared to 3,722 &#32;in 2014 . 

FAA regulations require pilots to have commercial licenses with specific ratings for the aircraft to be flown and be medically certified as physically fit to fly. FAA and medical certifications are subject to periodic renewal requirements, including recurrent training and recent flying experience. Mechanics, quality-control inspectors and flight dispatchers must be certificated and qualified for specific aircraft. Flight attendants must have initial and periodic competency training and qualification. Training programs are subject to approval and monitoring by the FAA. Management personnel directly involved in the supervision of flight operations, training, maintenance and aircraft inspection must also meet experience standards prescribed by FAA regulations. All safety-sensitive employees are subject to pre-employment, random and post-accident drug testing. 

The Railway Labor Act, or RLA, governs our relations with labor organizations. Under the RLA, our collective bargaining agreements generally do not expire, but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, they must notify the other party in the manner agreed to by the parties. Under the RLA, after receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations. If no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board, or NMB, to appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months, and even several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare at some time that an impasse exists. If an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day &#8220;cooling off&#8221; period commences. During that period (or after), a Presidential Emergency Board, or PEB, may be established, which examines the parties&#8217; positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another &#8220;cooling off&#8221; period of 30 days. At the end of a &#8220;cooling off&#8221; period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization and the airline each may resort to &#8220;self-help,&#8221; including, for the labor organization, a strike or other labor action, and for the airline, the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers. Congress and the President have the authority to prevent &#8220;self-help&#8221; by enacting legislation that, among other things, imposes a settlement on the parties. The table below sets forth our employee groups and status of the collective bargaining agreements. 

Employee Groups 

&#160; 

Representative 

&#160; 

Amendable Date 

Pilots 

&#160; 

Air Line Pilots Association, International (ALPA) 

&#160; 

August 2015 

Flight Attendants 

&#160; 

Association of Flight Attendants (AFA-CWA) 

&#160; 

August 2007 

Dispatchers 

&#160; 

Transport Workers Union (TWU) 

&#160; 

August 2018 

Ramp Service Agents 

&#160; 

International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW) 

&#160; 

June 2020 

In August 2014, under the supervision of the NMB and in conjunction with AFA-CWA, we reached a tentative agreement for a five -year contract with our flight attendants. The tentative agreement was subject to ratification by the flight attendant membership. On October 1, 2014, we were notified that the flight attendants voted not to ratify the tentative agreement. We will continue to work with the AFA-CWA and the NMB toward a goal of reaching a mutually beneficial agreement. 

On July 8, 2014, certain ramp service agents directly employed by us voted to be represented by the IAMAW. In May 2015, we entered into a five-year interim collective bargaining agreement with the IAMAW, including material economic terms, and we are continuing the process of negotiating a final collective bargaining agreement with the IAMAW. As of December 31, 2015 , these ramp service agents served 1 &#32;of the 56 &#32;airports where we operate. 

In August 2015, our Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) with ALPA, became amendable. We are currently in discussions with ALPA on a new contract. 

We focus on hiring highly productive employees and, where feasible, designing systems and processes around automation and outsourcing in order to maintain our low cost base. 

Safety and Security 

We are committed to the safety and security of our passengers and employees. We strive to comply with or exceed health and safety regulation standards. In pursuing these goals, we maintain an active aviation safety program. All of our personnel are expected to participate in the program and take an active role in the identification, reduction and elimination of hazards. 

Our ongoing focus on safety relies on training our employees to proper standards and providing them with the tools and equipment they require so they can perform their job functions in a safe and efficient manner. Safety in the workplace targets several areas of our business including: flight operations, maintenance, in-flight, dispatch and station operations. The Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, is charged with aviation security for both airlines and airports. We maintain active, open lines of communication with the TSA at all of our locations to ensure proper standards for security of our personnel, customers, equipment and facilities are exercised throughout our business. 

Insurance 

We maintain insurance policies we believe are customary in the airline industry and as required by the Department of Transportation (DOT). The policies principally provide liability coverage for public and passenger injury; damage to property; loss of or damage to flight equipment; fire and extended coverage; directors&#8217; and officers&#8217; liability; advertiser and media liability; cyber risk liability; fiduciary; and workers&#8217; compensation and employer&#8217;s liability. As of July 2014, we obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance from the commercial market. Prior to July 2014, we obtained this insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, which was discontinued in late 2014. Renewing coverage from commercial underwriters could result in a change in premium and more restrictive terms. Although we currently believe our insurance coverage is adequate, there can be no assurance that the amount of such coverage will not be changed or that we will not be forced to bear substantial losses from accidents. Our current war risk (terrorism) insurance policy expires in July 2016. 

Management Information Systems 

We have continued our commitment to technology improvements to support our ongoing operations and initiatives. During 2013, we completed the integration of a new SAP Enterprise Resource Planning application, which replaced our general ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, cash management and fixed asset systems. The conversion was designed to improve our key business processes by implementing an integrated tool to increase efficiency, consistency, data accuracy and cost effectiveness. During 2015, we completed the integration of TRAX, a new scalable maintenance, repair, operations (MRO) system to improve the tracking of all maintenance related financial transactions. We intend to continue to invest time and resources in upgrading and improving our information systems and the security of our data. 

Foreign Ownership 

Under DOT regulations and federal law, we must be controlled by U.S. citizens. In order to qualify, at least 75% of our stock must be voted by U.S. citizens, and our president and at least two-thirds of our board of directors and senior management must be U.S. citizens. 

We believe we are currently in compliance with such foreign ownership rules. 

Government Regulation 

Operational Regulation 

The airline industry is heavily regulated, especially by the federal government. Two of the primary regulatory authorities overseeing air transportation in the United States are the DOT and the FAA. The DOT has jurisdiction over economic issues affecting air transportation, such as competition, route authorizations, advertising and sales practices, baggage liability and disabled passenger transportation, among other areas, several of which were included in rules that became effective in 2011 and 2012 relating to, among other things, how airlines handle interactions with passengers through advertising, the reservation process, at the airport and on board the aircraft. Additional consumer rules proposed in 2014 that would require airlines to disclose through all points of sale the fees for certain basic ancillary services associated with the air transportation consumers are buying or considering buying may be implemented in 2016. Additional disabled passenger rules may be proposed in 2016. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Restrictions on or increased taxes applicable to charges for ancillary products and services paid by airline passengers and burdensome consumer protection regulations or laws could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.&#8221; 

The DOT has authority to issue certificates of public convenience and necessity required for airlines to provide air transportation. We hold a DOT certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing us to engage in scheduled air transportation of passengers, property and mail within the United States, its territories and possessions and between the United 

States and all countries that maintain a liberal aviation trade relationship with the United States (known as &#8220;open skies&#8221; countries). We also hold DOT certificates to engage in air transportation to certain other countries with more restrictive aviation policies. 

The FAA is responsible for regulating and overseeing matters relating to air carrier flight operations, including airline operating certificates, aircraft certification and maintenance and other matters affecting air safety. The FAA requires each commercial airline to obtain and hold an FAA air carrier certificate. This certificate, in combination with operations specifications issued to the airline by the FAA, authorizes the airline to operate at specific airports using aircraft approved by the FAA. As of December 31, 2015 , we had FAA airworthiness certificates for all of our aircraft, we had obtained the necessary FAA authority to fly to all of the cities we currently serve, and all of our aircraft had been certified for overwater operations. In 2014, the FAA issued its final regulations governing pilot rest periods and work hours for all airlines certificated under Part 121 of the Federal Aviation Regulations. The rule, known as FAR 117 which became effective on January 4, 2014, impacts the required amount and timing of rest periods for pilots between work assignments, and modifies duty and rest requirements based on the time of day, number of scheduled segments, flight types, time zones and other factors. FAR 117 has resulted in increased pilot costs as we were required to hire more pilots in order to comply with the regulations. We believe we hold all necessary operating and airworthiness authorizations, certificates and licenses and are operating in compliance with applicable DOT and FAA regulations, interpretations and policies. 

International Regulation 

All international service is subject to the regulatory requirements of the foreign government involved. We currently operate international service to Aruba, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and St. Maarten, as well as Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. If we decide to increase our routes to additional international destinations, we will be required to obtain necessary authority from the DOT and the applicable foreign government. We are also required to comply with overfly regulations in countries that lay along our routes but which we do not serve. 

International service is also subject to Customs and Border Protection, or CBP, immigration and agriculture requirements and the requirements of equivalent foreign governmental agencies. Like other airlines flying international routes, from time to time we may be subject to civil fines and penalties imposed by CBP if unmanifested or illegal cargo, such as illegal narcotics, is found on our aircraft. These fines and penalties, which in the case of narcotics are based upon the retail value of the seizure, may be substantial. We have implemented a comprehensive security program at our airports to reduce the risk of illegal cargo being placed on our aircraft, and we seek to cooperate actively with CBP and other U.S. and foreign law enforcement agencies in investigating incidents or attempts to introduce illegal cargo. 

Security Regulation 

The TSA was created in 2001 with the responsibility and authority to oversee the implementation, and ensure the adequacy of security measures at airports and other transportation facilities. Funding for passenger security is provided in part by a per enplanement ticket tax (passenger security fee). Prior to and for the first half of 2014, this fee was $2.50 per passenger flight segment, subject to a maximum of $5 per one-way trip. Effective July 1, 2014, the security fee was set at a flat rate of $5.60 each way. On December 19, 2014, a new law took effect which limits a round-trip fee to $11.20. We cannot forecast what additional security and safety requirements may be imposed in the future or the costs or revenue impact that would be associated with complying with such requirements. In addition, in the past, the TSA has assessed an Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee, or ASIF, on each airline. This fee was eliminated by the TSA effective October 1, 2014. 

Environmental Regulation 

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and affecting matters such as aircraft engine emissions, aircraft noise emissions and the discharge or disposal of materials and chemicals, which laws and regulations are administered by numerous state and federal agencies. The Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, regulates operations, including air carrier operations, which affect the quality of air in the United States. We believe the aircraft in our fleet meet all emission standards issued by the EPA. Concern about climate change and greenhouse gases may result in additional regulation or taxation of aircraft emissions in the United States and abroad. 

Federal law recognizes the right of airport operators with special noise problems to implement local noise abatement procedures so long as those procedures do not interfere unreasonably with interstate and foreign commerce and the national air transportation system. These restrictions can include limiting nighttime operations, directing specific aircraft operational procedures during takeoff and initial climb, and limiting the overall number of flights at an airport. 

Other Regulations 

We are subject to certain provisions of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and are required to obtain an aeronautical radio license from the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC. To the extent we are subject to FCC requirements, we will take all necessary steps to comply with those requirements. We are also subject to state and local laws and regulations at locations where we operate and the regulations of various local authorities that operate the airports we serve. 

Future Regulations 

The U.S. and foreign governments may consider and adopt new laws, regulations, interpretations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect our results of operations. We cannot predict what laws, regulations, interpretations and policies might be considered in the future, nor can we judge what impact, if any, the implementation of any of these proposals or changes might have on our business. 

