 Item 1. &#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;Business 

Overview 

DiamondRock Hospitality Company is a lodging-focused Maryland corporation operating as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2015, we owned a portfolio of 29 &#32;premium hotels and resorts that contain 10,928 &#32;guest rooms located in 18 different markets in North America and the U.S. Virgin Islands. As an owner, rather than an operator, of lodging properties, we receive all of the operating profits or losses generated by our hotels after the payment of fees due to hotel managers, which are calculated based on the revenues and profitability of each hotel. 

Our vision is to be a highly professional public lodging REIT that delivers long-term returns for our stockholders which exceed long-term returns generated by our peers. Our goal is to deliver long-term stockholder returns through a combination of dividends and enduring capital appreciation. Our strategy is to utilize disciplined capital allocation, focus on high quality lodging properties in North American markets with superior growth prospects and high barriers-to-entry, aggressively asset management those hotels, and employ conservative amounts of leverage. 

Our primary business is to acquire, own, asset manage and renovate full-service hotel properties in the United States. Our portfolio is concentrated in key gateway cities and destination resort locations. Each of our hotels is managed by a third party and a substantial number of our hotels are operated under a brand owned by one of the leading global lodging brand companies, including Marriott International, Inc. (&#8220;Marriott&#8221;), Starwood Hotels &#38; Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (&#8220;Starwood&#8221;) and Hilton Worldwide (&#8220;Hilton&#8221;). 

We critically evaluate each of our hotels to ensure that we own a portfolio of hotels that conforms to our vision, supports our mission and corresponds with our strategy. On a regular basis, we analyze our portfolio to identify opportunities to invest capital in certain projects or market non-core assets for sale in order to increase our portfolio quality. We are committed to a conservative capital structure with prudent leverage. We regularly assess the availability and affordability of capital in order to maximize stockholder value and minimize enterprise risk. In addition, we are committed to following sound corporate governance practices and to being open and transparent in our communications with our stockholders. 

Our Company 

We commenced operations in July 2004 and became a public reporting company in May 2005. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the symbol "DRH." We have been successful in acquiring, financing and asset managing our hotels and complying with the complex public company accounting and legal requirements. As of December 31, 2015, we had 26 full-time employees. Since our formation, we have sought to be forthright and transparent in our communications with investors, to actively monitor our corporate overhead and to adopt sound corporate governance practices. We believe that we have among the most transparent disclosures in the industry, and we consistently go beyond the minimum legal requirements and industry practice. For example, we provide quarterly operating performance data on each of our hotels, 

- 4 - 

enabling our investors to effectively evaluate our successes and challenges. Finally, we consider our corporate governance practices to be sound in that we have a majority-independent Board of Directors elected annually by our stockholders, and our officers and directors are subject to stock ownership policies designed to ensure that these persons own a meaningful amount of stock in the Company. 

&#32;Our Business Strategy 

Our business strategy is to utilize disciplined capital allocation, focus on high quality lodging properties in North American markets with superior growth prospects and high barriers-to-entry, aggressively asset manage those hotels and employ conservative amounts of leverage. 

We plan to strategically allocate capital in order to create value depending on our cost of capital. If our cost of capital is attractive, we expect to create value by: 

&#8226; 

pursuing accretive acquisitions; 

&#8226; 

match-funding equity issues at or above net asset value; 

&#8226; 

considering opportunistically raising equity above net asset value; and 

&#8226; 

continuing the disposition of non-core hotels. 

If our cost of capital is elevated, we expect to create value by: 

&#8226; 

selling non-core assets and deploying proceeds into share repurchases; and 

&#8226; 

considering using leverage capacity to acquire our stock under a share repurchase program. 

We prefer a relatively simple but efficient capital structure. We have not invested in joint ventures and have not issued any operating partnership units or preferred stock. We structure our hotel acquisitions to be straightforward and to fit within our conservative capital structure; however, we will consider a more complex transaction if we believe that the projected returns to our stockholders will significantly exceed the returns that would otherwise be available. 

High-Quality Urban and Destination Resort Hotels 

As of December 31, 2015, we owned 29 &#32;premium hotels and resorts throughout North America and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Our hotels and resorts are primarily categorized as upper upscale as defined by Smith Travel Research and are generally located in high barrier-to-entry markets with multiple demand generators. Our properties are concentrated in key gateway cities and in resort destinations. We consider lodging properties located in gateway cities and resort destinations to be the most capable of creating dynamic cash flow growth and achieving superior long-term capital appreciation. 

We have been executing on our strategy to enhance our hotel portfolio by actively recycling capital from non-core hotels located in slower growth markets to higher quality hotels located primarily in high-growth urban and destination resort markets. Since 2010, we have repositioned our portfolio through the acquisition of approximately $1.7 billion of urban and resort hotels that align with our strategic goals while disposing of more than $0.6 billion in non-core hotels. These acquisitions increased our urban exposure with additional hotels in cities such as San Diego, San Francisco, Boston, Denver, Washington, D.C., as well as our resort exposure with our recent acquisitions in Key West and Huntington Beach, California. Over 90% of our portfolio EBITDA as of December 31, 2015 is derived from core urban and resort destination hotels. Our capital recycling program over the past five years also achieved several other important strategic portfolio goals that include improving our portfolio&#8217;s geographic and brand diversity and achieving a mix of 50 percent brand-managed and 50 percent third-party managed hotels in our portfolio. 

We are highly sensitive to our cost of capital and do not expect to pursue acquisitions unless they create value in the near term. We also expect to continue to evaluate the disposition of non-core hotels. We will continue to evaluate our portfolio for opportunities to continue to upgrade our portfolio by disposing of non-core hotels. 

The primary focus of our acquisitions over the past five years was on hotels that we believe presented unique value-add opportunities. In addition, we have repositioned certain of our hotels through a change in brand, comprehensive renovation and/or change in third-party hotel manager to a more efficient operator. For example, we recently completed the first phase of a multi-phase capital expenditure program at the Chicago Marriott Downtown and amended the management agreement to permanently 

- 5 - 

reduce management and incentive fees owed. Further, the Conrad Chicago was converted to Starwood's Luxury Collection as The Gwen Chicago with a $25 million multi-year renovation and a change to a third-party operator. This program helped us achieve strategic portfolio goals of improving our portfolio's brand and management diversity. 

We evaluate each hotel in our portfolio to assess the optimal branding strategy for the individual hotel and market. We leverage the leading global hotel brands at most of our hotels, which are flagged under a brand owned by Marriott, Hilton or Starwood. We also maintain a small portion of our hotels as independent non-branded hotels. We believe that premier global hotel brands create significant value as a result of each brand's ability to produce incremental revenue through their strong reservation and rewards systems and sales organizations. We are also interested in owning other non-branded hotels located in premier or unique markets where we believe that the returns on such a hotel may be higher than if the hotel were operated under a globally-recognized brand. 

Innovative Asset Management 

We believe that we can create significant value in our portfolio through innovative asset management strategies such as rebranding, renovating and repositioning, and regularly evaluate our portfolio in order to determine if there are opportunities to employ these value-add strategies. 

Our asset management team is focused on improving hotel profit margins through revenue management strategies and cost control programs. Our asset management team also focuses on identifying new and potential value creation opportunities across our portfolio, including implementing resort fees, creating incremental guest rooms, leasing out restaurants to more profitable third-party operators, converting under-utilized space to revenue-generating meeting space and implementing programs to reduce energy consumption. 

Our senior management team has established a broad network of hotel industry contacts and relationships, including relationships with hotel owners, financiers, operators, project managers and contractors and other key industry participants. We use our broad network of hotel industry contacts and relationships to maximize the value of our hotels. We strive to negotiate management agreements that give us the right to exert influence over the management of our properties, annual budgets and all capital expenditures (all, to the extent permitted under the REIT rules), and then to use those rights to continually monitor and improve the performance of our properties. We cooperatively partner with our hotel managers in an attempt to increase operating results and long-term asset values at our hotels. In addition to working directly with the personnel at our hotels, our senior management team also has long-standing professional relationships with our hotel managers' senior executives, and we work directly with these senior executives to improve the performance of the hotels in our portfolio that they manage. 

Conservative Capital Structure 

We believe that a conservative capital structure maximizes investment capacity while reducing enterprise risk. We currently employ a low-risk and straight-forward capital structure with no preferred equity or convertible bonds. We currently maintain significant balance sheet flexibility with existing corporate cash, no outstanding borrowings under our $200 million senior unsecured credit facility, and 17 of our 29 hotels being unencumbered by mortgage debt as of December 31, 2015. We are well positioned for potential credit market volatility and uncertainty in the lodging cycle given that we have only one near-term debt maturity and the majority of our debt is financed with long-term, fixed-rate mortgages with a laddered maturity table. We believe it is imprudent to increase the inherent risk of highly cyclical lodging fundamentals through the use of a highly leveraged capital structure. 

We believe that our strategically designed capital structure is a value creation tool that can be used over the entire lodging cycle. Specifically, we believe that lower leverage benefits us in the following ways: 

&#8226; 

provides capacity to fund attractive acquisitions; 

&#8226; 

enhances our ability to maintain a sustainable dividend; 

&#8226; 

enables us to opportunistically repurchase shares during periods of stock price dislocation; and 

&#8226; 

provides capacity to fund late-cycle capital needs. 

Our current outstanding debt consists of property-specific mortgage debt, with the majority of our mortgage debt bearing interest at a fixed rate. We prefer that at least half of our portfolio remain unencumbered by debt in order to provide maximum balance sheet flexibility. In addition, to the extent that we incur additional debt, our general preference is non-recourse secured 

- 6 - 

mortgage debt. We expect that our strategy will enable us to maintain a balance sheet with an appropriate amount of debt throughout all phases of the lodging cycle. 

Our Corporate Structure 

We conduct our business through a traditional umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT, in which our hotels are owned by subsidiaries of our operating partnership, DiamondRock Hospitality Limited Partnership. We are the sole general partner of our operating partnership and currently own, either directly or indirectly, all of the limited partnership units of our operating partnership. We have the ability to issue limited partnership units to third parties in connection with acquisitions of hotel properties. In order for the income from our hotel investments to constitute &#8220;rents from real property&#8221; for purposes of the gross income tests required for REIT qualification, we must lease each of our hotels to a wholly-owned subsidiary of our taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS (each, a TRS lessee), or to an unrelated third party. We currently lease all of our domestic hotels to TRS lessees. In turn, our TRS lessees must engage a third-party management company to manage the hotels. However, we may structure our properties that are not subject to U.S. federal income tax differently from the structures that we use for our U.S. properties. For example, Frenchman's Reef is held by a U.S. Virgin Islands corporation, which we have elected to be a TRS. 

The following chart shows our corporate structure as of the date of this report: 

Each of our TRS lessees engage a third-party management company to manage each of our hotels for a management fee. Sixteen of our 29 hotels are managed by independent third-party managers. Thirteen of our 29 hotels are operated subject to franchise agreements with nationally recognized brands, including Marriott, Starwood and Hilton. 

Competition 

The hotel industry is highly competitive and our hotels are subject to competition from other hotels for guests. Competition is based on a number of factors, including convenience of location, reputation, brand affiliation, price, range of services, guest amenities, and quality of customer service. Competition is specific to the individual markets in which our properties are located and will include competition from existing and new hotels operated under brands in the full-service, select-service and extended-stay segments. We believe that properties flagged with a Marriott, Starwood or Hilton brand will enjoy the competitive advantages associated with their operations under such brand. These global brands' reservation systems and national advertising, marketing and promotional services combined with the strong management expertise they provide enable our properties to perform favorably 

- 7 - 

in terms of both occupancy and room rates relative to other brands and non-branded hotels. The guest loyalty programs operated by these global brands generate repeat guest business that might otherwise go to competing hotels. Increased competition may have a material adverse effect on occupancy, Average Daily Rate (or ADR) and Revenue per Available Room (or RevPAR), or may require us to make capital improvements that we otherwise would not undertake, which may result in decreases in the profitability of our hotels. 

In addition to competing with traditional hotels and lodging facilities, we compete with alternative lodging, including third-party providers of short-term rental properties and serviced apartments. We compete based on a number of factors, including room rates, quality of accommodations, service levels, convenience of location, reputation, reservation systems, brand recognition and supply and available of alternative lodging. 

We face competition for the acquisition of hotels from institutional pension funds, private equity funds, REITs, hotel companies and others who are engaged in hotel acquisitions and investments. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial and operational resources than we have and may have greater knowledge of the markets in which we seek to invest. This competition may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us and increase the cost of acquiring our targeted hotel investments. 

Regulatory Matters 

Environmental Matters 

In connection with the ownership of hotels, the Company is subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Under these laws, a current or previous owner or operator (including tenants) of real estate may be liable for the costs or removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances at, on, under or in such property. These laws typically impose liability without regard to fault or whether or not the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contamination, and the liability under these laws may be joint and several. Because these laws also impose liability on the persons who owned the property at the time it became contaminated, it is possible that we could incur cleanup costs or other environmental liabilities even after we sell properties. The presence of contamination, or the failure to properly remediate contamination, on a property may adversely affect the ability of the owner or operator to sell that property or to borrow funds using such property as collateral. Under the environmental laws, courts and government agencies also have the authority to require that a person who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or incinerator, pay for the cleanup of that facility if it becomes contaminated and threatens human health or the environment. 

Our hotels are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that address a wide variety of issues, including, but not limited to, storage tanks, air emissions from emergency generators, storm water and wastewater discharges, asbestos, lead-based paint, mold and mildew and waste management. Some of our hotels routinely handle and use hazardous or regulated substances and wastes as part of their operations, which substances and wastes are subject to regulation ( e.g. , swimming pool chemicals). Our hotels incur costs to comply with these laws and regulations and could be subject to fines and penalties for non-compliance. 

We believe that our hotels are in compliance, in all material respects, with all federal, state and local environmental ordinances and regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances and other environmental matters, the violation of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We have not received written notice from any governmental authority of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental matters in connection with any of our present properties. 

During 2015, we submitted the Company's second response to the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmarking survey (the "GRESB Report"), which benchmarks the Company's approach and performance on environmental, social and governance indicators against other real estate companies. We received the highest quadrant, the Green Star 2015 designation, from GRESB based on its dimensions of Management &#38; Policy and Implementation &#38; Measurement. The GRESB Report is accessible by our investors who are members of GRESB. The information included in, referenced to, or otherwise accessible through the GRESB Report, is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, this report or any document unless expressly incorporated by reference therein. 

ADA Regulation 

Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, to the extent that such properties are "public accommodations" as defined by the ADA. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by individuals with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We believe that 

- 8 - 

our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA. However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in payment of civil penalties, damages, and attorneys' fees and costs. The obligation to comply with the ADA is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and to make alterations as appropriate in this regard. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed 26 full-time employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. None of our employees is a member of any union; however, the employees of our hotel managers at the Lexington Hotel New York, Courtyard Manhattan/Fifth Avenue, Hilton Garden Inn Chelsea, Hilton Garden Inn/Times Square, Frenchman's Reef &#38; Morning Star Marriott Beach Resort, Westin Boston Waterfront, Hilton Boston Downtown and Hilton Minneapolis are currently represented by labor unions and are subject to collective bargaining agreements. 

Insurance 

We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, earthquake, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio under a blanket policy. In addition, we carry earthquake and terrorism insurance on our properties in an amount and with deductibles which we believe are commercially reasonable. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured losses such as loss from riots, war or acts of God. Certain of the properties in our portfolio are located in areas known to be seismically active or subject to hurricanes and we believe that we have appropriate insurance for those risks, although they are subject to higher deductibles than ordinary property insurance. 

Most of our hotel management agreements and mortgage agreements require that we obtain and maintain property insurance, business interruption insurance, flood insurance, earthquake insurance (if the hotel is located in an "earthquake prone zone" as determined by the U.S. Geological Survey) and other customary types of insurance related to hotels. We comply with all such requirements. In addition, either the third-party manager or we are responsible for obtaining general liability insurance, workers' compensation and employer's liability insurance. 

Available Information 

We maintain a website at the following address: www.drhc.com. We make our proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports and amendments are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). Such reports are also available by accessing the EDGAR database on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. 

Our website is also a key source of important information about us. We post to the Investor Relations section of our website important information about our business, our operating results and our financial condition and prospects, including, for example, information about material acquisitions and dispositions, our earnings releases and certain supplemental financial information related or complimentary thereto. The website also has a Corporate Governance page that includes, among other things, copies of our charter, our bylaws, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters for each standing committee of our Board of Directors: currently, the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. We intend to disclose on our website any amendment to, or waiver of, any provisions of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that apply to any of our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under the rules of the SEC or the NYSE. Copies of our charter, our bylaws, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the our SEC reports are also available in print to stockholders upon request addressed to Investor Relations, DiamondRock Hospitality Company, 3 Bethesda Metro Center, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland 20814 or through the &#8220;Information Request&#8221; section on the Investor Relations page of our website. 

The information included in, referenced to, or otherwise accessible through our website, is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, this report or any document unless expressly incorporated by reference therein. 

DiamondRock Hospitality Company is traded on the NYSE, under the symbol &#8220;DRH&#8221;. 

