 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL 

Ducommun Incorporated (&#8220;Ducommun,&#8221; &#8220;the Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;) is a leading global provider of engineering and manufacturing services for high-performance products and high-cost-of failure applications used primarily in the aerospace, defense, industrial, natural resources, medical and other industries. Ducommun differentiates itself as a full-service solution-based provider, offering a wide range of value-added products and services in our primary businesses of electronics, structures and integrated solutions. We operate through two primary business segments: Electronic Systems and Structural Systems. We are the successor to a business that was founded in California in 1849 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1970. 

ACQUISITIONS 

Acquisitions have been an important element of our growth strategy. We have supplemented our organic growth by identifying, acquiring and integrating acquisition opportunities that result in broader, more sophisticated product and service offerings while diversifying and expanding our customer base and markets. 

For example, in June 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of LaBarge Inc., (the &#8220;LaBarge Acquisition&#8221;), a provider of electronics manufacturing services to aerospace, defense and other diverse markets for $325.3 million (net of cash acquired and acquisition costs), funded by internally generated cash, senior unsecured notes and a senior secured term loan totaling $390.0 million. The LaBarge Acquisition has positioned us to benefit from customers that are increasingly outsourcing their integrated electronic content on their platforms and consolidating their supplier base to companies with expanded capabilities. 

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 

Business Segment Information 

In the fourth quarter of 2015, we renamed our operating segments to Electronic Systems (&#8220;ES&#8221;) and Structural Systems (&#8220;SS&#8221;). ES was formerly known as Ducommun LaBarge Technologies (&#8220;DLT&#8221;) and SS was formerly known as Ducommun AeroStructures (&#8220;DAS&#8221;). There were no regrouping of revenues or expenses as a result of the operating segments name change. We operate through two primary strategic businesses ES and SS, each of which is a reportable segment. The results of operations among our operating segments vary due to differences in competitors, customers, extent of proprietary deliverables and performance. ES designs, engineers and manufactures high-reliability products used in worldwide technology-driven markets including aerospace, defense, natural resources, industrial, and medical and other end-use markets. ES&#8217;s product offerings primarily range from prototype development to complex assemblies as discussed in more detail below. SS designs, engineers and manufactures large, complex contoured aerospace structural components and assemblies and supplies composite and metal bonded structures and assemblies. SS&#8217;s products are primarily used on commercial aircraft, military fixed-wing aircraft and military and commercial rotary-wing aircraft. 

Electronic Systems 

ES has three major product offerings in electronics manufacturing for diverse, high-reliability applications: complex cable assemblies and interconnect systems, printed circuit board assemblies, and higher-level electronic, electromechanical and mechanical assemblies. Components and assemblies are provided principally for domestic and foreign commercial and military fixed-wing aircraft, military and commercial rotary-wing aircraft and space programs. In addition, we provide select industrial high-reliability applications for the industrial automation, natural resources (mine automation and drilling), and medical and other end-use markets. We build custom, high-performance electronics and electromechanical systems. Our products include sophisticated radar enclosures, aircraft avionics racks and shipboard communications and control enclosures, printed circuit board assemblies, cable assemblies, wire harnesses, and interconnect systems and other high-level complex assemblies. ES utilizes a highly-integrated production process, including manufacturing, engineering, fabrication, machining, assembly, electronic integration, and related processes. Engineering, technical and program management services, including design, development, and integration and testing of circuit card assemblies and cable assemblies, are provided to a wide range of customers. 

In response to customer needs and utilizing our in-depth engineering expertise, ES is also considered a leading supplier of engineered products including, illuminated pushbutton switches and panels for aviation and test systems, microwave and millimeter switches and filters for radio frequency systems and test instrumentation, and motors and resolvers for motion control. 

ES also provides engineering expertise for aerospace system design, development, integration, and test. We leverage the knowledge base, capabilities, talent, and technologies of this focused capability into direct support of our customers. Our expertise includes engineering capabilities in systems engineering, aerodynamics, propulsion, guidance-navigation-and control (&#8220;GNC&#8221;), lethality/warheads, simulations, avionics, structures, software, inertial measurement units, seeker/sensors, and signal/data processing. 

Structural Systems 

SS has three major product offerings to support a global customer base: commercial aircraft, military fixed-wing aircraft, and military and commercial rotary-wing aircraft. Our applications include structural components, structural assemblies and bonded (metal and composite) components. In the structural components products, SS designs, engineers, and manufactures large complex contoured aluminum, titanium and Inconel &#174; &#32;aerostructure components for the aerospace industry. Structural assembly products include winglets, engine components, and fuselage structural panels for aircraft. Metal and composite bonded structures and assemblies products include aircraft wing spoilers, large fuselage skins, rotor blades on rotary-wing aircraft and components, flight control surfaces and engine components. To support these products, SS maintains advanced machine milling, stretch-forming, hot-forming, metal bonding, composite layup, and chemical milling capabilities and has an extensive engineering capability to support both design and manufacturing. 

AEROSPACE AND DEFENSE END-USE MARKETS OVERVIEW 

Our largest end-use markets are the aerospace and defense markets and our revenues from these markets represent approximately 81% &#32;of our total net revenues in 2015 . These markets are serviced by suppliers which are stratified, from the lowest value provided to the highest, into four tiers; Tier 3, Tier 2, Tier 1 and original equipment manufacturers (&#8220;OEMs&#8221;). The OEMs provide the highest value and are also known as prime contractors (&#8220;Primes&#8221;). We derive a significant portion of our revenue from subcontracts with OEMs. As the prime contractor for various programs and platforms, the OEMs sell to their customers, who may include, depending upon the application, the U.S. Federal Government, foreign, state and local governments, global commercial airline carriers, regional jet carriers and various other customers. The OEMs also sell to global leasing companies that lease commercial aircraft. A significant portion of our revenue is earned from subcontracts with the Primes. Tier 3 suppliers principally provide components or detailed parts. Tier 2 suppliers provide more complex, value-added parts and may also assume more design risk, manufacturing risk, supply chain risk and project management risk than Tier 3 suppliers. Tier 1 suppliers manufacture aircraft sections and purchase assemblies. We currently compete primarily with Tier 2 and Tier 3 suppliers. Our business growth strategy is to differentiate ourselves from competitors by providing more complex assemblies to our customers as a Tier 2 supplier. 

Commercial Aerospace End-Use Market 

The commercial aerospace end-use market is highly cyclical and is impacted by the level of global air passenger traffic in general, which in turn is influenced by global economic conditions, fleet fuel and maintenance costs and geopolitical developments. Revenues from the commercial aerospace end-use market represented approximately 38% &#32;of our total net revenues for 2015 . 

Global economic activity and global trade, which are the primary drivers for air travel, continues to grow below the long-term average, however, passenger traffic continued to grow more than 5%, as it has every year since 2010, and accelerated to more than 6% in 2015 . While growth was strong across all major world regions, there continues to be significant variation between regions and airline business models. Airlines operating in the Middle East and Asia Pacific regions as well as low-cost-carriers globally are currently leading passenger growth. 

In addition, airline financial performance also plays a role in the demand for new capacity. Airlines continue to focus on increasing revenue through alliances, partnerships, new marketing initiatives, and effective leveraging of ancillary services and related revenues. Airlines are also relentlessly focusing on reducing costs by renewing fleets to leverage more efficient airplanes and in 2015 , benefited significantly from lower fuel costs. As a result, market acceptance is growing for these types of more fuel efficient aircraft from The Boeing Company (&#8220;Boeing&#8221;) and Airbus Group, formerly known as the European Aeronautic, Defense &#38; Space Company (&#8220;EADS&#8221;), through their wholly owned subsidiary Airbus (&#8220;Airbus&#8221;). 

Further, the availability of internal or external funding impacts commercial aircraft build rates. Failure of our customers to obtain financing may result in cancellation or deferral of orders. 

The long-term outlook for the industry continues to remain positive due to the fundamental drivers of air travel growth: economic growth and the increasing propensity to travel due to increased trade, globalization, and improved airline services driven by liberalization of air traffic rights between countries. Boeing&#8217;s 20 year forecast projections in their 2015 &#32;Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC estimate a long-term average growth rate of approximately 5% per year for passenger traffic and approximately 4% per year for cargo traffic. This is based on long term global economic growth projections of 

approximately 3% average annual gross domestic product (&#8220;GDP&#8221;) growth, and factoring in increased utilization of the worldwide airplane fleet and requirements to replace older airplanes. We believe we are well positioned given our product capabilities to participate in the steady projected growth rate for commercial air traffic and build rates for large commercial aircraft for the airframe manufacturing industry. 

Defense End-Use Market 

Our defense end-use market includes products used in military and space, including technologies and structures applications. The defense end-use market is highly cyclical and is impacted by the level of government defense spending. Government defense spending is impacted by national defense policies and priorities, political climates, fiscal budgetary constraints, U.S. Federal budget deficits, projected economic growth and the level of global military or security threats, or other conflicts. Revenues from the military and space end-use market in 2015 &#32;represented approximately 43% &#32;of our total net revenues during 2015 . 

The enactment of The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 in November 2015 established overall defense spending levels for fiscal year (&#8220;FY&#8221;) 2016 and FY 2017. However, uncertainty remains as it relates to levels of defense spending for FY 2018 and beyond, including the risk of future sequestration cuts. In addition, significant uncertainty also continues related to program-level appropriations for the U.S. Department of Defense (&#8220;U.S. DoD&#8221;) within the overall budgetary framework described above. 

We derive a significant portion of our business from customers whose principal sales are to the U.S. Government and from direct sales by us to the U.S. Government. Thus, future budget cuts, including cuts mandated by sequestration, or future procurement decisions associated with the authorization and appropriations process could result in reductions, cancellations and/or delays of existing contracts or programs. Any of these events could have a material effect on the results of our operations, financial position and/or cash flows. 

In addition to the risks described above, if Congress is unable to pass appropriations bills in a timely manner, a government shutdown could result which may impact above and beyond those resulting from budget cuts, sequestration or program-level appropriations. For example, requirements to furlough employees in the U.S. DoD or other government agencies could result in payment delays, impair our ability to perform work on existing contracts, and/or negatively impact future orders. For additional information related to our revenues from customers whose principal sales are to the U.S. Government and our direct sales to the U.S. Government, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; contained within Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (&#8220;Form 10-K&#8221;). 

NON-AEROSPACE AND DEFENSE END-USE MARKETS OVERVIEW 

Our non-aerospace and defense (&#8220;non-A&#38;D&#8221;) end-use markets, (natural resources, industrial, and medical and other) are diverse and are impacted by the customers&#8217; needs for increasing electronic content and a desire to outsource. Factors expected to impact these markets include capital and industrial goods spending, the number of oil-rigs operating and the level of natural gas exploration in North America and general economic conditions. Our products are used in industrial test systems, energy exploration systems, semiconductor fabrication units, glass electronic manufacturing systems, mine automation and control systems, patient monitoring devices, respiratory care devices, biodecontamination equipment and other technology-driven products. Revenues from the non-A&#38;D end-use markets were approximately 19% &#32;of our total net revenues during 2015 . Going forward, we will rename the non-A&#38;D end-use markets as the industrial end-use markets. 

We believe our business in these markets has stabilized and we are well positioned for these markets. 

SALES AND MARKETING 

Our commercial revenues are substantially dependent on airframe manufacturers&#8217; production rates of new aircraft. Deliveries of new aircraft by airframe manufacturers are dependent on the financial capacity of its customers, primarily airlines and leasing companies, to purchase the aircraft. Thus, revenues from commercial aircraft could be affected as a result of changes in new aircraft orders, or the cancellation or deferral by airlines of purchases of ordered aircraft. Further, our revenues from commercial aircraft programs could be affected by changes in our customers&#8217; inventory levels and changes in our customers&#8217; aircraft production build rates. In recent years, both major large aircraft manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus, have announced higher build rates due to increases in production of existing programs, including more fully-developed models, and by the introduction of new platforms. 

Military components manufactured by us are employed in many of the country&#8217;s front-line fighters, bombers, rotary-wing aircraft and support aircraft, as well as land and sea-based applications. Engineering, technical and program management services are provided principally for the United States defense, space and homeland security programs. Our defense business is diversified among a number of military manufacturers and programs. In the space sector, we continue to support various unmanned launch vehicle and satellite programs. 

Our sales into the industrial, natural resources, and medical and other commercial markets are customer focused in the various markets and driven primarily by their capital spending and manufacturing outsourcing demands. 

We continue to broaden and diversify our customer base in the end-use markets we serve by providing innovative product and service solutions through drawing on our core competencies, experience and technical expertise. Net revenues related to military and space (defense technologies and defense structures), commercial aerospace, and non-A&#38;D end-use markets in 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#32;were as follows: 

Many of our contracts are fixed price contracts subject to termination at the convenience of the customer (as well as for default). In the event of termination for convenience, the customer generally is required to pay the costs we have incurred and certain other fees through the date of termination. Larger, long-term government subcontracts may have provisions for milestone payments, progress payments or cash advances for purchase of inventory. 

Our marketing efforts primarily consist of developing strong, long-term relationships with our customers, which provide the basis for future sales. These close relationships allow us to gain a better insight into each customer&#8217;s business needs, identify ways to provide greater value to the customer, and allow us to be designed in early in various products and/or high volume products. 

SEASONALITY 

The timing of our revenue is governed by the purchasing patterns of our customers, and, as a result, we may not generate revenue equally during the year. However, no material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. 

MAJOR CUSTOMERS 

We currently generate the majority of our revenues from the aerospace and defense industries. As a result, we have significant revenues from certain customers. Boeing and Raytheon each were approximately ten percent or greater of our 2015 &#32;net revenues. Revenues from our top ten customers, including Boeing and Raytheon, were approximately 56% &#32;of total net revenues during 2015 . Net revenues by major customer for 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#32;were as follows: &#160; 

Net revenues from our customers, except the U.S. Government, are diversified over a number of different military and space, commercial aerospace, natural resources, industrial, medical and other products. For additional information on revenues from major customers, see Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

We perform concurrent engineering with our customers and product development activities under our self-funded programs as well as under contracts with others. Concurrent engineering and product development activities are performed for commercial, military and space applications. Further, we perform high-technology systems engineering and analysis, principally under customer-funded contracts, with a focus on sensors system simulation, engineering and integration activities. 

RAW MATERIALS AND COMPONENTS 

Raw materials and components used in the manufacturing of our products include aluminum, titanium, steel and carbon fibers, as well as a wide variety of electronic interconnect and circuit card assemblies and components. These raw materials are generally available from a number of suppliers and are generally in adequate supply. However, from time to time, we have experienced increases in lead times for and limited availability of, aluminum, titanium and certain other raw materials and/or components. Moreover, certain components, supplies and raw materials for our operations are purchased from single source suppliers and occasionally, directed by our customers. In such instances, we strive to develop alternative sources and design modifications to minimize the potential for business interruptions. 

COMPETITION 

The markets we serve are highly competitive, and our products and services are affected by varying degrees of competition. We compete worldwide with domestic and international companies in most markets. These companies may have competitive advantages as a result of greater financial resources, economies of scale and bundled products and services that we do not offer. Additional information related to competition is discussed in &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; contained within Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Our ability to compete depends principally upon the breadth of our technical capabilities, the quality of our goods and services, competitive pricing, product performance, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation, the ability to solve specific customer needs, and customer relationships. 

PATENTS AND LICENSES 

We have several patents, but we do not believe that our operations are dependent upon any single patent or group of patents. In general, we rely on technical superiority, continual product improvement, exclusive product features, superior lead time, on-time delivery performance, quality, and customer relationships to maintain our competitive advantage. 

BACKLOG 

Backlog is subject to delivery delays or program cancellations, which are beyond our control. Backlog is affected by timing differences in the placement of customer orders and tends to be concentrated in certain programs and customers. As a result, trends in our overall level of backlog may not be indicative of trends in our future revenues. Backlog was approximately $545.8 million &#32;at December 31, 2015 , compared to approximately $559.3 million &#32;at December 31, 2014 . The decrease in backlog was primarily in the military and space end-use markets. Approximately $436.6 &#32;million of total backlog is expected to be delivered during 2016. 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

Our business, operations and facilities are subject to numerous stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations issued by government agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency (&#8220;EPA&#8221;). Among other matters, these regulatory authorities impose requirements that regulate the emission, discharge, generation, management, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, pollutants and contaminants. These regulations govern public and private response actions to hazardous or regulated substances that threaten to release, or have been released to the environment, and they require us to obtain and maintain licenses and permits in connection with our operations. We may also be required to investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. Additionally, this extensive regulatory framework imposes significant compliance burdens and risks on us. We anticipate that capital expenditures will continue to be required for the foreseeable future to upgrade and maintain our environmental compliance efforts, however, we do not expect such expenditures to be material in 2016 and the foreseeable future. 

SS has been directed by California environmental agencies to investigate and take corrective action for groundwater contamination at its facilities located in Adelanto (a.k.a., El Mirage) and Monrovia, California. Based on currently available information, we have accrued approximately $1.5 million &#32;for our estimated liabilities related to these sites. For further information, see Note 16 in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. In addition, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; contained within Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for certain risks related to environmental matters. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 2,900 &#32;people, of which approximately 350 &#32;are subject to collective bargaining agreements expiring on July 1, 2018 &#32;and January 5, 2018 . We believe our relations with our employees are good. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; contained within Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding certain risks related to our employees. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

General information about us can be obtained from our website address at www.ducommun.com . Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, if any, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). Information included in our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov &#32;that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including our company. 

