 Item 1. Business . 

South State Corporation (formerly First Financial Holdings, Inc. ( from July 26, 2013 through June 29 , 2014) and SCBT Financial Corporation ( from February 20, 2004 through July 2 5 , 2013)), headquartered in Columbia, South Carolina, is a bank holding company incorporated in 1985 under the laws of South Carolina. We provide a wide range of banking services and products to our customers through our wholly &#8209;owned bank subsidiary, South State Bank (formerly SCBT) (the &#x201C;Bank&#x201D;), a South Carolina &#8209;chartered commercial bank that opened for business in 1934. The Bank operates Minis &amp; Co., Inc. and First Southeast 401k Fiduciaries, both wholly owned registered investment advisors, and First Southeast Investor Services, a wholly &#8209;owned limited service broker &#8209;dealer. We do not engage in any significant operations other than the ownership of our banking subsidiary. 

Unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context requires otherwise, references herein to &#x201C;South State,&#x201D; the &#x201C;Company&#x201D; &#x201C;we,&#x201D; &#x201C;us,&#x201D; &#x201C;our&#x201D; or similar references mean South State Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. References to the &#x201C;Bank&#x201D; means South State Bank, a South Carolina banking corporation. 

The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. We coordinate the financial resources of the consolidated enterprise and thereby maintain financial, operation and administrative systems that allow centralized evaluation of subsidiary operations and coordination of selected policies and activities. The Company&#x2019;s operating revenues and net income are derived primarily from cash dividends received from our Bank. 

Our Bank provides a full range of retail and commercial banking services, mortgage lending services, trust and investment services, and consumer finance loans through financial centers in South Carolina, North Carolina, northeast Georgia, and coastal Georgia. At December 31, 201 5 , we had approximately $ 8.6 billion in assets, $ 6.0 billion in loans, $ 7.1 billion in deposits, $ 1.1 b illion in shareholders&#x2019; equity, and a market capitalization of approximately $1. 7 billion. 

We began operating in 1934 in Orangeburg, South Carolina and have maintained our ability to provide superior customer service while also leveraging our size to offer many products more common to larger banks. We have pursued a growth strategy that relies on organic growth supplemented by the acquisition of select financial institutions or branches in certain market areas. 

In recent years, we have continued to grow the business under our guiding principles of soundness, profitability and growth. Below are highlights of our expansion efforts over the past three years: 

&#xB7; 

On August 21, 2015, the Bank completed its acquisition from B ank of America, N.A.(&#x201C;BOA&#x201D;) of 12 South Carolina branches located in Florence, Greenwood, Orangeburg, Sumter, Newberry, Batesburg-Leesville, Abbeville and Hartsville, South Carolina, and one Georgia branch located in Hartwell, Georgia. 

&#xB7; 

On July 26, 2013, the Company completed a business combination wherein First Financial Holdings, Inc. (&#x201C;FFHI&#x201D;), of Charleston, South Carolina, a bank holding company, merged into the Company, and the Company also changed its name from &#x201C;SCBT Financial Corporation&#x201D; to &#x201C;First Financial Holdings, Inc.&#x201D; First Federal Bank merged into the Bank. The remaining subsidiaries became subsidiaries of the Bank, which included First Southeast 401k Fiduciaries, a wholly &#8209;owned registered investment advisor, and First Southeast Investor Services, a wholly &#8209;owned broker &#8209;dealer. 

Our principal executive offices are located at 520 Gervais Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29201. Our mailing address at this facility is Post Office Box 1030, Columbia, South Carolina 29202 and our telephone number is (800) 277 &#8209;2175. 

Available Information 

We provide our Annual Reports on Form 10 &#8209;K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 &#8209;Q, Current Reports on Form 8 &#8209;K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#x201C;Exchange Act&#x201D;) on our website at www.southstatebank.com. These filings are made accessible as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#x201C;SEC&#x201D;). These filings are also accessible on the SEC&#x2019;s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, we make available under the Investor Relations section on our website (www.southstatebank.com) the following , among other things : (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of Ethics, which applies to our directors and all employees, and (iii) the charters of the Audit, Compensation, Executive, Wealth Management and Trust, Risk, and Corporate Governance &amp; Nominating Committees of our board of directors. These materials are available to the general public on our website free of charge. Printed copies of these materials are also available free of charge to shareholders who request them in writing. Please address your request to: Financial Management Division, South State Corporation, 520 Gervais Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29201. Statements of beneficial ownership of equity securities filed by directors, officers, and 10% or greater shareholders under Section 16 of the Exchange Act are also available through our website, www.southstatebank.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 

Territory Served and Competition 

We serve customers and conduct our business from 127 financial centers in 24 South Carolina counties, four North Carolina counties, 11 northeast Georgia counties, and two coastal Georgia counties. We compete in the highly competitive banking and financial services industry. Our profitability depends principally on our ability to effectively compete in the markets in which we conduct business. We expect competition in the industry to continue to increase as a result of consolidation among banking and financial services firms. Competition may further intensify as additional companies enter the markets where we conduct business and we enter mature markets in accordance with our expansion strategy. 

We experience strong competition from both bank and non &#8209;bank competitors in certain markets. Broadly speaking, we compete with national banks, super &#8209; regional banks, smaller community banks, and non &#8209;traditional internet &#8209;based banks. We compete for deposits and loans with commercial banks, and credit unions. In addition, we compete with other financial intermediaries and investment alternatives such as mortgage companies, credit card issuers, leasing companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, governmental and corporation bonds, and other securities firms. Many of these non &#8209;bank competitors are not subject to the same regulatory oversight, affording them a competitive advantage in some instances. In many cases, our competitors have substantially greater resources and offer certain services that we are unable to provide to our customers. 

We encounter strong competition in making loans and attracting deposits. We compete with other financial institutions to offer customers competitive interest rates on deposit accounts, competitive interest rates charged on loans and other credit, and reasonable service charges. We believe our customers also consider the quality and scope of the services provided, the convenience of banking facilities, and relative lending limits in the case of loans to commercial borrowers. Our customers may also take into account the fact that other banks offer different services from those that we provide. The large national and super &#8209;regional banks may have significantly greater lending limits and may offer additional products. However, by emphasizing customer service and by providing a wide variety of services, we believe that our Bank has been able to compete successfully with our competitors, regardless of their size. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, our Bank had 2,058 full &#8209;time equivalent employees compared to 2,081 as of the same date in 2014. We consider our relationship with our employees instrumental to the success of our business. We provide most of our employees with a comprehensive employee benefit program which includes the following: group life, health and dental insurance, paid vacation, sick leave, educational opportunities, a cash incentive plan, a stock purchase plan, stock incentive plan for officers and key employees, deferred compensation plans for officers and key employees, a defined benefit pension plan for employees hired on or before December 31, 2005 (except for employees acquired in the SunBank acquisition in November of 2005), and a 401(k) plan with employer match. 

Regulation and Supervision 

As a financial institution, we operate under a regulatory framework. The framework outlines a regulatory environment applicable to financial holding companies, bank holding companies, and their subsidiaries. Below, we have provided some specific information relevant to the Company. The regulatory framework under which we operate is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation&#x2019;s (the &#x201C;FDIC&#x201D;) Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the protection of our security holders and creditors. To the extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions. 

General 

The current regulatory environment for financial institutions includes substantial enforcement activity by the federal banking agencies, the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, and other state and federal law enforcement agencies. This environment entails significant potential increases in compliance requirements and associated costs. 

We are a bank holding company registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and are subject to the supervision of, and to regular inspection by, the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, as a South Carolina bank holding company organized under the South Carolina Banking and Branching Efficiency Act, we are subject to limitations on sale or merger and to regulation by the South Carolina Board of Financial Institutions (the &#x201C;SCBFI&#x201D;). Our Bank is organized as a South Carolina &#8209;chartered commercial bank. It is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the SCBFI and the FDIC. The following discussion summarizes certain aspects of banking and other laws and regulations that affect the Company and our Bank. 

Under the Bank Holding Company Act (the &#x201C; BHC Act&#x201D;), our activities and those of our Bank are limited to banking, managing or controlling banks, furnishing services to or performing services for our Bank, or any other activity which the Federal Reserve Board determines to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. The BHC Act requires prior Federal Reserve Board approval for, among other things, the acquisition by a bank holding company of direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all the assets of any bank, or for a merger or consolidation of a bank holding company with another bank holding company. The BHC Act also prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting stock of any company engaged in a non &#8209;banking business unless such business is determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. Further, under South Carolina law, it is unlawful without the prior approval of the SCBFI for any South Carolina bank holding company (i) to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank or any other bank holding company, (ii) to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of a bank or any other bank holding company, or (iii) to merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. 

The Gramm &#8209;Leach &#8209;Bliley Act amended a number of federal banking laws affecting the Company and our Bank. In particular, the Gramm &#8209;Leach &#8209;Bliley Act permits a bank holding company to elect to become a &#x201C;financial holding company,&#x201D; provided certain conditions are met. A financial holding company, and the companies it controls, are permitted to engage in activities considered &#x201C;financial in nature&#x201D; as defined by the Gramm &#8209;Leach &#8209;Bliley Act and Federal Reserve Board interpretations (including, without limitation, insurance and securities activities), and therefore may engage in a broader range of activities than permitted by bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. We remain a bank holding company, but may at some time in the future elect to become a financial holding company. 

Interstate Banking 

Federal legislation permits out-of-state acquisitions by bank holding companies, interstate branching by banks, and interstate merging by banks. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which was signed into law in July 2010 and is discussed more fully below (the &#x201C;Dodd-Frank Act&#x201D;), removed previous state law restrictions on de novo interstate branching in states such as South Carolina, North Carolina, and Georgia. This change effectively permits out &#8209;of &#8209;state banks to open de novo branches in states where the laws of such state would permit a bank chartered by that sate to open a de novo branch. 

Obligations of Holding Company to its Subsidiary Banks 

There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed by law and regulatory policy on bank holding companies with regard to their depository institution subsidiaries that are designed to minimize potential loss to depositors and to the FDIC insurance fund in the event that the depository institution becomes in danger of defaulting under its obligations to repay deposits. Under a policy of the Federal Reserve Board, which was confirmed in the Dodd &#8209;Frank Act, a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions and to commit resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so absent such policy. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (&#x201C;FDICIA&#x201D;), to avoid receivership of its insured depository institution subsidiary, a bank holding company is required to guarantee the compliance of any insured depository institution subsidiary that may become &#x201C;undercapitalized&#x201D; within the terms of any capital restoration plan filed by such subsidiary with its appropriate federal banking agency up to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5% of the institution&#x2019;s total assets at the time the institution became undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount which is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all applicable capital standards as of the time the institution fails to comply with such capital restoration plan. 

The Federal Reserve Board also has the authority under the BHC Act to require a bank holding company to terminate any activity or relinquish control of a nonbank subsidiary (other than a nonbank subsidiary of a bank) upon the Federal Reserve Board&#x2019;s determination that such activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness or stability of any subsidiary depository institution of the bank holding company. Further, federal law grants federal bank regulatory authorities additional discretion to require a bank holding company to divest itself of any bank or nonbank subsidiary if the agency determines that divestiture may aid the depository institution&#x2019;s financial condition. 

In addition, the &#x201C;cross guarantee&#x201D; provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (&#x201C;FDIA&#x201D;) require insured depository institutions under common control to reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered or reasonably anticipated by the FDIC as a result of the default of a commonly controlled insured depository institution or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled insured depository institution in danger of default. The FDIC&#x2019;s claim for damages is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository institution or its holding company, but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured depository institutions. 

The FDIA also provides that amounts received from the liquidation or other resolution of any insured depository institution by any receiver must be distributed (after payment of secured claims) to pay the deposit liabilities of the institution prior to payment of any other general or unsecured senior liability, subordinated liability, general creditor or shareholder. This provision would give depositors a preference over general and subordinated creditors and shareholders in the event a receiver is appointed to distribute the assets of our Bank. 

Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company&#x2019;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

The Dodd &#8209;Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 

The Dodd &#8209;Frank Act was signed into law in July 2010. The Dodd &#8209;Frank Act impacts financial institutions in numerous ways, including: 

&#xB7; 

The creation of a Financial Stability Oversight Council responsible for monitoring and managing systemic risk, 

&#xB7; 

Granting additional authority to the Federal Reserve to regulate certain types of nonbank financial companies, 

&#xB7; 

Granting new authority to the FDIC as liquidator and receiver, 

&#xB7; 

Changing the manner in which deposit insurance assessments are made, 

&#xB7; 

Requiring regulators to modify capital standards, 

&#xB7; 

Establishing the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the &#x201C;CFPB&#x201D;), 

&#xB7; 

Capping interchange fees that banks with assets of $10 billion or more charge merchants for debit card transactions, 

&#xB7; 

Imposing more stringent requirements on mortgage lenders, and 

&#xB7; 

Limiting banks&#x2019; proprietary trading activities. 

There are many provisions in the Dodd &#8209;Frank Act mandating regulators to adopt new regulations and conduct studies upon which future regulation may be based. While some have been issued, many remain to be issued. Governmental intervention and new regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Basel Capital Standards 

Regulatory capital rules released in July 2013 to implement capital standards referred to as Basel III and developed by an international body known as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, impose higher minimum capital requirements for bank holding companies and banks. The rules apply to all national and state banks and savings associations regardless of size and bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies with more than $1 billion in total consolidated assets. More stringent requirements are imposed on &#x201C;advanced approaches&#x201D; banking organizations-those organizations with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, $10 billion or more in total foreign exposures, or that have opted in to the Basel II capital regime. The requirements in the rule began to phase in on January 1, 2015, for us. The requirements in the rule will be fully phased in by January 1, 2019. 

The rule includes certain new and higher risk-based capital and leverage requirements than those currently in place. Specifically, the following minimum capital requirements apply to us: 

&#xB7; 

a new common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%; 

&#xB7; 

a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from the former 4% requirement); 

&#xB7; 

a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from the former requirement); and 

&#xB7; 

a leverage ratio of 4% (also unchanged from the former requirement). 

Under the rule, Tier 1 capital is redefined to include two components: Common Equity Tier 1 capital and additional Tier 1 capital. The new and highest form of capital, Common Equity Tier 1 capital, consists solely of common stock (plus related surplus), retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income, and limited amounts of minority interests that are in the form of common stock. Additional Tier 1 capital includes other perpetual instruments historically included in Tier 1 capital, such as noncumulative perpetual preferred stock. Tier 2 capital generally consists of instruments that previously qualified as Tier 2 capital plus instruments that the rule has disqualified from Tier 1 capital treatment. Cumulative perpetual preferred stock, formerly includable in Tier 1 capital, is now included only in Tier 2 capital; except that the rule permits bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in total consolidated assets to continue to include trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued before May 19, 2010 in Tier 1 Capital (but not in Common Equity Tier 1 capital), subject to certain restrictions. Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) is presumptively included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital and often would operate to reduce this category of capital. The rule provided a one-time opportunity at the end of the first quarter of 2015 for covered banking organizations to opt out of much of this treatment of AOCI. We made this opt-out election and, as a result, will ret ain the pre-existing treatment for AOCI. 

In addition, in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions or discretionary bonus payments to executives, a covered banking organization must maintain a &#x201C;capital conservation buffer&#x201D; on top of its minimum risk-based capital requirements. This buffer must consist solely of Tier 1 Common Equity, but the buffer applies to all three measurements 

(Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 capital and total capital). The capital conservation buffer will be phased in incrementally over time, becoming fully effective on January 1, 2019, and will consist of an additional amount of common equity equal to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. As of January 1, 2016, we are required to hold a capital conservation buffer of 0.625%, increasing by that amount each successive year until 2019. 

In general, the rules have had the effect of increasing capital requirements by increasing the risk weights on certain assets, including high volatility commercial real estate, certain loans past due 90 days or more or in nonaccrual status, mortgage servicing rights not includable in Common Equity Tier 1 capital, equity exposures, and claims on securities firms, that are used in the denominator of the three risk-based capital ratios. 

Volcker Rule 

Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, known as the &#x201C;Volcker Rule,&#x201D; prohibits any bank, bank holding company, or affiliate (referred to collectively as &#x201C;banking entities&#x201D;) from engaging in two types of activities: &#x201C;proprietary trading&#x201D; and the ownership or sponsorship of private equity or hedge funds that are referred to as &#x201C;covered funds.&#x201D; Proprietary trading is, in general, trading in securities on a short-term basis for a banking entity's own account. Funds subject to the ownership and sponsorship prohibition are those not required to register with the SEC because they have only accredited investors or no more than 100 investors. In December 2013, our primary federal regulators, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC, together with other federal banking agencies, the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, finalized a regulation to implement the Volcker Rule. At December 31, 2015, the Company has evaluated our securities portfolio and has determined that we do not hold any covered funds. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

As an insured depository institution, the Bank is required to comply with the capital requirements promulgated under the FDIA and the prompt corrective action regulations thereunder, which set forth five capital categories, each with specific regulatory consequences. Under these regulations, the categories are: 

&#xB7; 

Well Capitalized &#x2014; The institution exceeds the required minimum level for each relevant capital measure. A well capitalized institution (i) has total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, (iii) has a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.5% or greater, (iv) has a leverage capital ratio of 5% or greater, and (v) is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 

&#xB7; 

Adequately Capitalized &#x2014; The institution meets the required minimum level for each relevant capital measure. No capital distribution may be made that would result in the institution becoming undercapitalized. An adequately capitalized institution (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater, (iii) has a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% or greater, and (iv) has a leverage capital ratio of 4% or greater. 

&#xB7; 

Undercapitalized &#x2014; The institution fails to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure. An undercapitalized institution (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, (iii) has a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.5%, or (iv) has a leverage capital ratio of less than 4%. 

&#xB7; 

Significantly Undercapitalized &#x2014; The institution is significantly below the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure. A significantly undercapitalized institution (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4%, (iii) has a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3%, or (iv) has a leverage capital ratio of less than 3%. 

&#xB7; 

Critically Undercapitalized &#x2014; The institution fails to meet a critical capital level set by the appropriate federal banking agency. A critically undercapitalized institution has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2%. 

If the applicable federal regulator determines, after notice and an opportunity for hearing, that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition, the regulator is authorized to reclassify the institution to the next lower capital 

category (other than critically undercapitalized) and require the submission of a plan to correct the unsafe or unsound condition. 

If the institution is not well capitalized, it cannot accept brokered deposits without prior FDIC approval. Even if approved, rate restrictions will govern the rate the institution may pay on the brokered deposits. In addition, a bank that is undercapitalized cannot offer an effective yield in excess of 75 basis points over the &#x201C;national rate&#x201D; paid on deposits (including brokered deposits, if approval is granted for the bank to accept them) of comparable size and maturity. The &#x201C;national rate&#x201D; is defined as a simple average of rates paid by insured depository institutions and branches for which data are available and is published weekly by the FDIC. Institutions subject to the restrictions that believe they are operating in an area where the rates paid on deposits are higher than the &#x201C;national rate&#x201D; can use the local market to determine the prevailing rate if they seek and receive a determination from the FDIC that it is operating in a high &#8209;rate area. Regardless of the determination, institutions must use the national rate to determine conformance for all deposits outside their market area. 

Moreover, if the institution becomes less than adequately capitalized, it must adopt a capital restoration plan acceptable to the FDIC. The institution also would become subject to increased regulatory oversight, and is increasingly restricted in the scope of its permissible activities. Each company having control over an undercapitalized institution also must provide a limited guarantee that the institution will comply with its capital restoration plan. Except under limited circumstances consistent with an accepted capital restoration plan, an undercapitalized institution may not grow. An undercapitalized institution may not acquire another institution, establish additional branch offices or engage in any new line of business unless it is determined by the appropriate federal banking agency to be consistent with an accepted capital restoration plan, or unless the FDIC determines that the proposed action will further the purpose of prompt corrective action. The appropriate federal banking agency may take any action authorized for a significantly undercapitalized institution if an undercapitalized institution fails to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fails in any material respect to implement a plan accepted by the agency. A critically undercapitalized institution is subject to having a receiver or conservator appointed to manage its affairs and for loss of its charter to conduct banking activities. 

An insured depository institution may not pay a management fee to a bank holding company controlling that institution or any other person having control of the institution if, after making the payment, the institution would be undercapitalized. In addition, an institution cannot make a capital distribution, such as a dividend or other distribution, that is in substance a distribution of capital to the owners of the institution if following such a distribution the institution would be undercapitalized. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Bank was deemed to be &#x201C;well capitalized.&#x201D; 

Payment of Dividends 

The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, which expresses the Federal Reserve Board&#x2019;s view that a bank holding company generally should pay cash dividends only to the extent that the holding company&#x2019;s net income for the past year is sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the holding company&#x2019;s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve Board also indicated that it would be inappropriate for a bank holding company experiencing serious financial problems to borrow funds to pay dividends. Funds for cash distributions to our shareholders are derived primarily from dividends received from our Bank. Our Bank is subject to various general regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends. Any restriction on the ability of our Bank to pay dividends will indirectly restrict the ability of the Company to pay dividends. 

The Company pays cash dividends to shareholders from its assets, which are mainly provided by dividends from the Bank. However, certain restrictions exist regarding the ability of its subsidiary to transfer funds to the Company in form of cash dividends, loans or advances. The approval of the SCBFI is required to pay dividends that exceed the current year&#x2019;s net income. The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the OCC have issued policy statements which provide that bank holding companies and insured banks should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. 

The ability of the Company and the Bank to pay dividends may also be affected by the various minimum capital requirements and the capital and non &#8209;capital standards established under the FDICIA, as described above. The right of 

the Company, its shareholders, and its creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its subsidiary is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of our Bank. 

Certain Transactions by the Company and its Affiliates 

Various legal limitations restrict the Bank from lending or otherwise supplying funds to the Company or its non &#8209;bank subsidiaries. The Company and the Bank are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Regulation W. 

Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act places limits on the amount of loans or extensions of credit to, or investments in, or certain other transactions with, affiliates and on the amount of advances to third parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of affiliates. Section 23A also applies to derivative transactions, repurchase agreements and securities lending and borrowing transactions that cause a bank to have credit exposure to an affiliate. The aggregate of all covered transactions is limited in amount, as to any one affiliate, to 10% of the Bank&#x2019;s capital and surplus and, as to all affiliates combined, to 20% of the Bank&#x2019;s capital and surplus. Furthermore, within the foregoing limitations as to amount, each covered transaction must meet specified collateral requirements. The Bank is forbidden to purchase low quality assets from an affiliate. 

Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, among other things, prohibits a bank from engaging in certain transactions with certain affiliates unless the transactions are on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to such bank or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with or involving other nonaffiliated companies. If there are no comparable transactions, a bank&#x2019;s (or one of its subsidiaries&#x2019;) affiliate transaction must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, nonaffiliated companies. These requirements apply to all transactions subject to Section 23A as well as to certain other transactions. 

The affiliates of a bank include any holding company of the bank, any other company under common control with the bank (including any company controlled by the same shareholders who control the bank), any subsidiary of the bank that is itself a bank, any company in which the majority of the directors or trustees also constitute a majority of the directors or trustees of the bank or holding company of the bank, any company sponsored and advised on a contractual basis by the bank or an affiliate, and any mutual fund advised by a bank or any of the bank&#x2019;s affiliates. Regulation W generally excludes all non &#8209;bank and non &#8209;savings association subsidiaries of banks from treatment as affiliates, except to the extent that the Federal Reserve Board decides to treat these subsidiaries as affiliates. 

The Bank is also subject to certain restrictions on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, certain principal shareholders, and their related interests. Extensions of credit include derivative transactions, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and lending transactions to the extent that such transactions cause a bank to have credit exposure to an insider. Any extension of credit to an insider: 

&#xB7; 

must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties; and 

&#xB7; 

must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. 

Insurance of Deposits 

The deposits of the Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC. The Dodd &#8209;Frank Act permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings associations and credit unions to $250,000 per account. As insurer, the FDIC imposes deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of and to require reporting by FDIC insured institutions. It also may prohibit any FDIC insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the insurance fund. 

FDIC insured institutions are required to pay a Financing Corporation assessment to fund the interest on bonds issued to resolve thrift failures in the 1980s. These assessments, which may be revised based upon the level of deposits, will continue until the bonds mature in the years 2017 through 2019. 

The FDIC may terminate the deposit insurance of any insured depository institution if it determines after a notice and hearing that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. It also may suspend deposit insurance temporarily during the hearing process for the permanent termination of insurance if the institution has no tangible capital. If insurance of accounts is terminated, the accounts at the institution at the time of the termination, less subsequent withdrawals, remain insured for a period of six months to two years, as determined by the FDIC. Management is not aware of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of the Bank&#x2019;s deposit insurance. 

Incentive Compensation 

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC issued comprehensive final guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk &#8209;taking. The guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization&#x2019;s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk &#8209;taking beyond the organization&#x2019;s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization&#x2019;s board of directors. 

The Federal Reserve Board will review, as part of the regular, risk &#8209; focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as the Company, that are not &#x201C;large, complex banking organizations.&#x201D; These reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization&#x2019;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization&#x2019;s supervisory ratings, which can affect the organization&#x2019;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk &#8209;management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization&#x2019;s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. 

Anti &#8209;Tying Restrictions 

Under amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act and Federal Reserve Board regulations, a bank is prohibited from engaging in certain tying or reciprocity arrangements with its customers. In general, a bank may not extend credit, lease, sell property, or furnish any services or fix or vary the consideration for these on the condition that: 

&#xB7; 

the customer obtain or provide some additional credit, property, or services from or to the bank, the bank holding company or its subsidiaries; or 

&#xB7; 

the customer not obtain some other credit, property, or services from a competitor, except to the extent reasonable conditions are imposed to assure the soundness of the credit extended. 

Certain arrangements are permissible: a bank may offer combined &#8209;balance products and may otherwise offer more favorable terms if a customer obtains two or more traditional bank products; and certain foreign transactions are exempt from the general rule. A bank holding company or any bank affiliate also is subject to anti &#8209;tying requirements in connection with electronic benefit transfer services. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act (the &#x201C;CRA&#x201D;) requires a financial institution&#x2019;s primary regulator, which is the FDIC for the Bank, to evaluate the record of each financial institution in meeting the credit needs of its local community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. These factors are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility. Failure to adequately meet these criteria could result in the imposition of additional requirements and limitations on the institution. Additionally, the institution must publicly disclose the terms of various Community Reinvestment Act &#8209;related agreements. In its most recent CRA examination, the Bank received a &#x201C;satisfactory&#x201D; rating. 

Consumer Protection Regulations 

Activities of the Bank are subject to a variety of statutes and regulations designed to protect consumers. Interest and other charges collected or contracted for by the Bank are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. The loan operations of the Bank are also subject to federal laws and regulations applicable to credit transactions, such as: 

&#xB7; 

the Dodd &#8209;Frank Act that created the CFPB within the Federal Reserve Board, which has broad rule &#8209;making authority over a wide range of consumer laws that apply to all insured depository institutions; 

&#xB7; 

the federal Truth &#8209;In &#8209;Lending Act and Regulation Z, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers and including substantial new requirements for mortgage lending, as mandated by the Dodd &#8209;Frank Act; 

&#xB7; 

the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 and Regulation C, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; 

&#xB7; 

the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, or other prohibited factors in extending credit; 

&#xB7; 

the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1978, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act and Regulation V, as well as the rules and regulations of the FDIC, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies, certain identity theft protections and certain credit and other disclosures; 

&#xB7; 

the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and Regulation F, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; and 

&#xB7; 

the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Regulation X, which governs aspects of the settlement process for residential mortgage loans. 

The deposit operations of the Bank are also subject to federal laws, such as: 

&#xB7; 

the Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; 

&#xB7; 

the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E, which governs automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers&#x2019; rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services; 

&#xB7; 

the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (also known as &#x201C;Check 21&#x201D;), which gives &#x201C;substitute checks,&#x201D; such as digital check images and copies made from that image, the same legal standing as the original paper check; and 

&#xB7; 

the Truth in Savings Act and Regulation DD, which requires depository institutions to provide disclosures so that consumers can make meaningful comparisons about depository institutions. 

Enforcement Powers 

The Bank and its &#x201C;institution &#8209;affiliated parties,&#x201D; including its management, employees, agents, independent contractors, and consultants such as attorneys and accountants and others who participate in the conduct of the financial institution&#x2019;s affairs, are subject to potential civil and criminal penalties for violations of law, regulations or written orders of a government agency. These practices can include the failure of an institution to timely file required reports or the filing of false or misleading information or the submission of inaccurate reports. Potential civil penalties have been substantially increased. Criminal penalties for some financial institution crimes have been increased to 20 years. 

In addition, regulators are provided with considerable flexibility to commence enforcement actions against institutions and institution &#8209;affiliated parties. Possible enforcement actions include the termination of deposit insurance. Furthermore, banking agencies&#x2019; have expansive power to issue cease &#8209;and &#8209;desist orders. These orders may, among other things, require affirmative action to correct any harm resulting from a violation or practice, including restitution, reimbursement, indemnifications or guarantees against loss. A financial institution may also be ordered to restrict its growth, dispose of certain assets, rescind agreements or contracts or take other actions as determined by the ordering agency to be appropriate. 

The number of government entities authorized to take action against the Bank has expanded under the Dodd &#8209;Frank Act. The FDIC continues to have primary federal enforcement authority, and the SCBFI also has enforcement authority, with respect to the Bank. In addition, the CFPB also has back &#8209;up enforcement authority with respect to the consumer protection statutes above. Specifically, the CFPB may request reports from and conduct limited examinations of the Bank in conducting investigations involving the consumer protection statutes. Further, state attorneys general may bring civil actions or other proceedings under the Dodd &#8209;Frank Act or regulations against state &#8209;chartered banks, including the Bank. Prior notice to the CFPB and the FDIC would be necessary for an action against the Bank. 

Anti &#8209;Money Laundering 

Financial institutions must maintain anti &#8209;money laundering programs that include established internal policies, procedures and controls; a designated compliance officer; an ongoing employee training program; and testing of the program by an independent audit function. Financial institutions are also prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence and &#x201C;knowing your customer&#x201D; in their dealings with foreign financial institutions, foreign customers and other high risk customers. Financial institutions must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious transactions, and recent laws provide law enforcement authorities with increased access to financial information maintained by banks. Anti &#8209;money laundering obligations have been substantially strengthened as a result of the USA PATRIOT Act (the &#x201C;Patriot Act&#x201D;), enacted in 2001 and renewed through 2015, as described below. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations, and this area has become a particular focus of the regulators in recent years. In addition, the regulators are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications. The regulatory authorities have been active in imposing &#x201C;cease and desist&#x201D; orders and money penalty sanctions against institutions found to be violating these obligations. 

USA PATRIOT Act 

The Patriot Act became effective on October 26, 2001 and amended the Bank Secrecy Act. The Patriot Act provides, in part, for the facilitation of information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering by enhancing anti &#8209; money laundering and financial transparency laws, as well as enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanics for the U.S. government, including: 

&#xB7; 

requiring standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; 

&#xB7; 

rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; 

&#xB7; 

reports by nonfinancial trades and businesses filed with the Treasury Department&#x2019;s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network for transactions exceeding $10,000; and 

&#xB7; 

filing suspicious activities reports by brokers and dealers if they believe a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations. 

The Patriot Act requires financial institutions to undertake enhanced due diligence of private bank accounts or correspondent accounts for non &#8209;U.S. persons that they administer, maintain, or manage. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications. 

Under the Patriot Act, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (&#x201C;FinCEN&#x201D;) can send the Bank a list of the names of persons suspected of involvement in terrorist activities or money laundering. The Bank may be requested to search its records for any relationships or transactions with persons on the list. If the Bank finds any relationships or transactions, it must report those relationships or transactions to FinCEN. 

The Office of Foreign Assets Control 

The Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#x201C;OFAC&#x201D;), which is an office in the U.S. Department of the Treasury, is responsible for helping to ensure that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with &#x201C;enemies&#x201D; of the United States, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC publishes lists of names of persons and organizations suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts; owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf of target countries, and narcotics traffickers. If a bank finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, it must freeze or block the transactions on the account. The Bank has appointed a compliance officer to oversee the inspection of its accounts and the filing of any notifications. The Bank actively checks high &#8209;risk OFAC areas such as new accounts, wire transfers and customer files. These checks are performed using software that is updated each time a modification is made to the lists provided by OFAC and other agencies of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. 

Privacy and Credit Reporting 

Financial institutions are required to disclose their policies for collecting and protecting confidential information. Customers generally may prevent financial institutions from sharing nonpublic personal financial information with nonaffiliated third parties except under narrow circumstances, such as the processing of transactions requested by the consumer or when the financial institution is jointly sponsoring a product or service with a nonaffiliated third party. Additionally, financial institutions generally may not disclose consumer account numbers to any nonaffiliated third party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing to consumers. The Bank&#x2019;s policy is not to disclose any personal information unless permitted by law. 

Like other lending institutions, the Bank uses credit bureau data in its underwriting activities. Use of that data is regulated under the Federal Credit Reporting Act on a uniform, nationwide basis, including credit reporting, prescreening, sharing of information between affiliates, and the use of credit data. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 allows states to enact identity theft laws that are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the provisions of the act. 

Fiscal and Monetary Policy 

Banking is a business that depends largely on interest rate differentials. In general, the difference between the interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings, and the interest we receive on our loans and securities holdings, constitutes the major portion of our bank&#x2019;s earnings. Thus, our earnings and growth will be subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board regulates, among other things, the supply of money through various means, including open &#8209;market dealings in United States government securities, the discount rate at which banks may borrow from the Federal Reserve Board, and the reserve requirements on deposits. We cannot predict the nature and timing of any changes in such policies and their impact on our business. 

Proposed Legislation and Regulatory Action 

New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain wide &#8209; ranging provisions for altering the structures, regulations and competitive relationships of the nation&#x2019;s financial institutions. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. 

Executive Officers of South State Corporation 

Executive officers of South State Corporation are elected by the board of directors annually and serve at the pleasure of the board of directors. The executive officers and their ages, positions over the past five years, and terms of office as of February 19, 2016, are as follows: 

Name (age) 

Position and Five Year History 

With the Company Since 

Robert R. Hill, Jr. (4 9 ) 

Chief Executive Officer and Director, President (2004 &#x2014;2013) 

John C. Pollok ( 50 ) 

Senior Executive Vice President, Director, Chief Financial Officer (2007 &#x2014;2010, 2012&#x2014;Present) and Chief Operating Officer 

Joseph E. Burns (6 1 ) 

Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Credit Officer (2000&#x2014;2009, 2013&#x2014;Present) and Chief Risk Officer (2009&#x2014;2013, 2014&#x2014;2016) 

John F. Windley (6 3 ) 

Chief Banking Officer and President of South State Bank 

Renee R. Brooks (4 6 ) 

Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Risk Officer, Corporate Secretary ( 2009&#x2014;2014) 

None of the above officers are related and there are no arrangements or understandings between them and any other person pursuant to which any of them was elected as an officer, other than arrangements or understandings with the directors or officers of the Company acting solely in their capacities as such. 

