 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We are a technology driven company that aggregates, via the Internet, large volumes of small, individually customized orders for a broad spectrum of print, signage, apparel and similar products. We fulfill those orders with manufacturing capabilities that include Cimpress owned and operated manufacturing facilities and a network of third-party fulfillers to create customized products for customers on-demand. We bring our products to market through a portfolio of focused brands serving the needs of micro, small and medium sized businesses, resellers and consumers. These brands include Vistaprint, our global brand for micro business marketing products and services, as well as brands that we have acquired that serve the needs of various market segments, including resellers, small and medium businesses with differentiated service needs, and consumers purchasing products for themselves and their families. &#32; 

Our Priorities 

We manage our business according to two uppermost objectives: 

1. 

Strategic : To be the world leader in mass customization. 

2. 

Financial : To maximize intrinsic value per share, defined as (a) the unlevered free cash flow per share that, in our best judgment, will occur between now and the long-term future, appropriately discounted to reflect our cost of capital, minus (b) net debt per share. 

World Leader in Mass Customization 

Cimpress&#8217; strategic objective is to defend and extend our position as the world leader in mass customization. Mass customization is a business model that allows companies to deliver major improvements to customer value across a wide variety of printed product categories. Companies that master mass customization are able to produce, with the reliability, quality and affordability of mass production, small individual orders where each one embodies the personal relevance inherent to customized products. 

&#160; 

The chart illustrates this concept. The horizontal axis represents the volume of production of a given product; the vertical axis represents the cost of producing one unit of that product. Traditionally, the only way to manufacture at a low unit cost was to produce a large volume of that product: mass-produced products fall in the lower right hand corner of the chart. Custom-made products (i.e., those produced in small volumes for a very specific purpose) historically incurred very high unit costs: they fall in the upper left hand side of the chart. 

Mass customization breaks this trade off, enabling low volume, low cost production of individually unique products. Very importantly, relative to traditional alternatives mass customization creates value in many ways, not just lower cost. Other advantages can include faster production, greater personal relevance, elimination of obsolete stock, better design, flexible shipping options, more product choice, and higher quality. 

Mass customization delivers a breakthrough in customer value particularly in markets in which the worth of a physical product is inherently tied to a specific, unique use or application. For instance, there is limited value to a marketing brochure that is the same brochure as is used by many other companies: the business owner needs to describe what is unique about his or her endeavor. Likewise, a photo mug is more personally relevant if it shows pictures of someone&#8217;s own friends and family. Before mass customization, producing a high quality custom product 

required high per-order setup costs, so it simply was not economical to produce a customized product in low quantities. 

Cimpress&#8217; focus on mass customization lies at the intersection of three overlapping areas: 

&#8226; 

Empowering People to Make an Impression (what we are passionate about ) - Cimpress empowers people to make an impression through individually meaningful physical products. In other words, we make it easy and affordable for our customers to convey, in tangible and enduring media, the thoughts, design aesthetics, messages and/or sentiments that are important to them, their customers, their organization or their loved ones. 

&#8226; 

Computer Integrated Manufacturing (where we can be the best in the world) &#32;- &#32; Low-volume custom products traditionally have a very high per-unit cost because of significant fixed costs related to conveying and using information that is required to process each order. Throughout our history, a differentiating capability of Cimpress has been our ability to develop systems to integrate every step of the value chain, from design creation to delivery. This greatly reduces the marginal cost of processing information related to each individual, customized order. We use computer integrated manufacturing, which harnesses the power of software and IT networks to automate the flow of information, allowing individual processes to exchange information with each other, to schedule activities, to initiate actions, and to route and control a broad range of activities related to the specification and production of physical goods. 

&#8226; 

Large Scale in Small Quantities (what drives our economic engine) &#32;- &#32;By large scale we mean a large volume of orders; by small quantities we mean small individual orders. Large scale is an important driver of our competitive advantage because increasingly larger volumes of orders allow us to sort and then produce those orders in increasingly focused processes. This allows us to generate economic value by capturing a portion of the per-unit cost difference that exists between relatively high-volume, specialized processes and low volume (job shop) processes. When we have increased the volume of orders that we process and produce we have seen material improvements in quality, product selection, speed and cost. In fiscal 2016, we processed over 46 million uniquely customized items. 

Our Corporate Strategy 

A key corporate strategy is to build a mass customization platform (MCP) and a related ecosystem of owned and third party merchants and fulfillers. We are designing the Cimpress platform to consist of a robust collection of software micro services that enables mass customization that provides: 

&#8226; 

Merchants with tools and services such as pre-press document processing and production capabilities. 

&#8226; 

Fulfillers with tools and opportunities to expand their business. 

By &#8220;merchants&#8221; we mean organizations that sell mass customized products to customers, including both our Cimpress-owned business units and third parties. By &#8220;fulfillers&#8221; we mean organizations that produce mass-customized products; these include both our own production facilities and those of third parties. 

As of July 2016, the Cimpress MCP is currently still under development and functioning only in small initial increments. However, we anticipate that, in the future when the MCP is more established, we can create significant value via the platform. As more fulfillers join the platform, merchants would be able to get access to more products, more delivery options, more finishing options and lower cost. As new merchants join, fulfillers would be able to gain access to markets and production volume that would have otherwise been inaccessible to them. Both fulfillers and merchants would get access to a robust set of software services that they can assemble into solutions according to their needs. We are designing the mass customization platform to sort individual orders from many different merchants into homogeneous streams of production workflow that are routed to specialized production lines. 

Market and Industry Background 

Mass Customization Opportunity 

Product: 

Geography: 

Customer: 

&#160;- Small format 

&#160;- North America 

&#160;- Businesses (micro, small, 

&#160;- Large format 

&#160;- Europe 

medium, large) 

&#160;- Promotional products, 

&#160;- Australia/New Zealand 

&#160;- Graphic designers, resellers, 

apparel and gifts 

&#160;- Other 

and print providers 

&#160;- Packaging 

&#160; 

&#160;- Teams, associations and 

&#160;- Photo products, invitations 

&#160; 

groups 

and announcements 

&#160; 

&#160;- Consumers (home and family) 

&#32; Large traditional markets undergoing disruptive innovation 

We believe that our mass customization business model can deliver great customer value across a diverse set of product applications, including marketing materials such as business cards, brochures, catalogs and flyers; signage and displays; promotional products; decorated apparel and bags; fabrics and textiles; keepsakes and gifts, packaging, photo products, invitations and announcements. Many different customers appreciate access to affordable, high quality, customized products in these categories, including businesses of all sizes, teams, associations and groups, consumers, and resellers and designers who serve customers in these groups. 

The product categories and customers listed above constitute a large market opportunity that is highly fragmented. We believe that a vast majority of the markets to which mass customization could apply is still served by traditional business models that force customers either to produce in large quantities per order or to pay a high price per unit. 

We believe that these large and fragmented markets are moving away from small traditional suppliers that employ job shop business models to fulfill a relatively small number of customer orders and toward companies such as Cimpress that aggregate a relatively large number of orders and fulfill them via focused supply chain and production capabilities at relatively high volumes, thereby achieving the benefits of mass customization. We believe we are early in the process of what will be a multi-decade shift from job shop to mass customization. 

Cimpress' current revenue represents a very small fraction of this market opportunity. Even though we believe Cimpress is the largest single player in this market, there are many other companies who are pursuing mass customization and/or business models that incorporate many of the tenets of mass customization. These non-traditional suppliers include both large firms and hundreds of focused smaller firms. We believe that Cimpress and other competitors who have built their business around a mass customization model are &#8220;disruptive innovators&#8221; to these large markets because we enable small volume production of personalized high quality products at an affordable price. Disruptive innovation, a term of art coined by Harvard Business School professor Clayton Christensen, describes a process by which a product or service takes root initially in simple applications at the bottom of a market (such as free business cards for the most price sensitive of micro-businesses) and then moves up market, eventually displacing established competitors (such as the markets mentioned above). 

We believe this opportunity to deliver substantially better customer value and to therefore disrupt very large traditional industries can translate into tremendous future opportunity for Cimpress if we execute well and constantly improve our business model over a long period of time. Until recently, we focused primarily on a narrow set of customers within the list above (micro businesses and consumers) with a very limited product offering. With acquisitions and via internal investments over the last several years, we have extended our ability to serve our 

traditional customers and have also gained a capability to serve larger businesses as well as resellers who, in turn, serve many different types of customers. 

As we continue to evolve as a business, our understanding of these markets and their relative attractiveness will also evolve. Our expansion into the &#8220;upload and print&#8221; space via acquisition, promotional products, apparel, packaging and gifts, as well as new geographic markets has significantly increased the size of our addressable market opportunity. We base our market size and inherent profitability estimates upon considerable research and analysis; however we consider our estimates to be only approximate. Despite the imprecise nature of our estimates, we are confident that our understanding is directionally correct and that we operate in an enormous aggregate market with significant opportunity for Cimpress to grow should we be successful in delivering a differentiated and attractive value proposition to customers. 

Today, we believe that the global revenue opportunity for low-to-medium order quantities (i.e. still within our focus of small-sized individual orders) in the four product categories below is over $100 billion &#32; annually in North America and Europe. The addition of other geographies and the consumer products space adds at least 50% to this number: 

&#8226; 

Small format marketing materials such as business cards, flyers, leaflets, inserts, brochures and magazines. Businesses of all sizes are the main end users of short-and-medium run lengths (per order quantities below 2,500 units for business cards and below 20,000 units for other materials). 

&#8226; 

Large format products such as banners, signs, tradeshow displays, and point-of-sale displays. Businesses of all sizes are the main end users of short-and-medium run lengths (less than 1,000 units). 

&#8226; 

Promotional products, apparel and gifts including decorated apparel, bags and textiles, and hard goods such as pens, USB sticks, and drinkware. The end users of short-and-medium runs of these products range from businesses to teams, associations and groups, as well as consumers. 

&#8226; 

Packaging products, such as corrugated board packaging, folded cartons, bags and labels. Businesses are the primary end users for short-and-medium runs (below 10,000 units). 

Our Business 

Today&#8217;s Cimpress includes 12 previously independent companies which we have acquired plus Vistaprint, which we grew organically. Prior to their acquisitions, each of our acquired entities pursued business models which embodied the principles of mass customization. In other words, each provided a standardized set of products that could be configured and customized by customers, ordered in relatively low volumes, and would produce via relatively standardized, homogeneous production processes either internally and/or at sub-contractors. 

At the largest of our constituent brands, which include Vistaprint, Pixartprinting, Albumprinter, WIRmachenDRUCK and Exaprint, our business is driven by sophisticated, standardized processes and software. These technologies are designed to readily scale as the number of orders received per day increases. In particular, the more individual jobs we receive in a given time period, the more efficiently we can sort and route jobs with homogeneous production processes to given nodes of our production systems or of our third party supply chain. This sortation and subsequent process automation improves production efficiency. We believe that our strategy of systematizing our service and production systems enables us to deliver value to customers much more effectively than traditional competitors. 

We operate internal production facilities in Canada, the Netherlands, Australia, Austria, France, Italy, the UK, Japan, India, Brazil and China. Importantly, we also work with a network of several hundred external fulfillers located across the globe. We believe that the improvements we have made and the future improvements we intend to make in software technologies that support the design, sortation, scheduling, production and delivery processes provide us with significant competitive advantage. In many cases we can produce and ship an order the same day we receive it. Our systems and processes seek to drive reduced inventory and working capital requirements as well as faster delivery to customers. In certain of our company-owned manufacturing facilities, software schedules the near-simultaneous production of customized products that have been ordered by the same customer, allowing us to produce and deliver multi-part orders quickly and efficiently. 

We believe that the standard business cards sold by our Vistaprint business unit provide a concrete example of the potential of our mass customization business model to deliver significant customer value and to develop strong 

profit franchises in large markets that were previously low growth and commoditized. The current Cimpress operations for a typical order of 250 business cards in Europe and North America require less than 14 seconds of human labor for all of pre-press, printing, cutting and packaging, versus an hour or more for traditional printers. Combined with advantages of scale in purchasing of materials, our self-service ordering, pre-press automation, auto-scheduling and automated manufacturing processes enable us to produce standard business cards at a fraction of the cost of typical traditional printers with very consistent quality and delivery reliability. Achieving this type of efficiency took us more than a decade and required massive volume, significant engineering investments and significant capital. Standard Vistaprint business cards (which account for approximately 29% of the Vistaprint business unit total bookings for fiscal 2016) represent a mature, highly refined, and highly profitable example of the power of mass customization. Even though we do not expect many other products to reach this extreme level of automation, we do currently produce multiple other product categories (such as flyers, brochures, signage, mugs, calendars, t-shirts, hats, embroidered soft goods, rubber stamps, photobooks, labels and holiday cards) via analogous methods whose volume and processes are well along the spectrum of mass customization relative to traditional suppliers and thus provide great customer value and a strong, profitable and growing revenue stream. 

We believe that the potential for scale-based advantages are not limited to large, automated production lines. Other advantages include the ability to systematically and automatically sort through large volumes of diverse orders for the &#8220;long tail&#8221; (i.e. those formats and process requirements that are relatively uncommon), to group these diverse orders into more homogeneous categories, and to route them to production nodes that are specialized for that category of operations and/or which are geographically proximate to the customer. In such cases, even though the daily production volume of a given production node is small in comparison to our highest volume production lines, the homogeneity and volume we are able to achieve is nonetheless significant relative to traditional suppliers of the long tail product in question; thus our relative efficiency gains remain substantial. For this type of long tail production, we rely heavily on third-party fulfillment partnerships, which allow us to offer a very diverse set of products. We acquired most of our capabilities in this area via our investments in Exaprint, Printdeal, Pixartprinting and WIRmachenDRUCK. For instance, the product assortment of each these four brands are measured in the tens of thousands, versus just a few hundred at Vistaprint traditionally. This deep and broad product offering is important to many customers. 

Our products 

Customers visiting our websites can select the type of product they wish to design from our broad range of available products and services for the business, reseller and home and family markets. The combined product assortment across our brands is extensive, including offerings in the following product categories: business cards, marketing materials such as flyers and postcards, digital and marketing services, signage, decorated apparel, promotional products and gifts, packaging, textiles and magazines and catalogs. 

Supply chain management 

We are focused on achieving the lowest total cost in our strategic sourcing efforts by concentrating on quality, logistics, technology and cost, while also striving to use responsible sourcing practices within our supply chain. Our efforts include the procurement of high quality materials and equipment that meet our strict specifications at a low total cost across a growing number of manufacturing locations, with an increasing focus on supplier compliance with our sustainable paper procurement policy as well as our Supplier Code of Conduct. Additionally, we work to develop and implement logistics, warehousing, and outbound shipping strategies to provide a balance of low-cost material availability while limiting our inventory exposure. We believe investing in a strategic supply chain management capability that is tightly integrated with our other manufacturing teams helps us benefit from our large scale, improve efficiency and reduce costs, and increase the sustainability of our business. 

As part of our corporate social responsibility program, we regularly evaluate ways to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment. Past efforts have substantially reduced the energy consumption of our operations. In fiscal 2017, we will be initiating a program to convert a substantial portion of the paper we use in our Cimpress owned production facilities to FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper. FSC is an international non-profit organization committed to promoting the practice of sustainable forestry worldwide. FSC certification confirms that the paper comes from responsibly managed forests that meet FSC&#8217;s environmental and social standards. 

Our Proprietary Technology 

We rely on our advanced proprietary technology to market to, attract and retain our customers, to enable customers to create graphic designs and place orders on our websites, and to aggregate and produce multiple orders from all over the world. We separate our software teams into teams that focus on customer-facing brands (merchant technologies) and teams that focus on manufacturing, supply chain and logistics technologies (fulfiller technologies). 

Merchant Technologies 

Each of our customer-facing brands sells via an e-commerce model and uses a mix of proprietary and third-party software to support the marketing and sale of its offerings. Since our upload and print businesses require the upload of press-ready files from their customers, there is less proprietary technology for upload and print merchants than there is for our Vistaprint and Albumprinter business units, which target a broader base of smaller customers and offer those customers the ability to create or modify designs within their web browser via functionality that is intuitive to customers who are not skilled in more sophisticated graphic design software. 

Our proprietary merchant technology includes: 

&#8226; 

Design and Document Creation Technologies - Our design creation technologies, primarily deployed through our Albumprinter business unit and our Vistaprint-branded websites, enable customers, by themselves or together with the assistance of our design support staff, to design and create high quality customized products in a "do it yourself" (DIY) manner. We also have proprietary technologies to help customers see their designs in on-screen simulations of real-world settings in real time in order to gain an appreciation for what the finished product will look like, as well as software that algorithmically generates customized product designs in real time based on key-word searches, enabling professional-looking graphic layouts to be easily and quickly created by customers without the need for graphic arts training. 

&#8226; 

Cross-Selling and Content Management Technologies &#32;- On our Vistaprint-branded websites, we combine the aforementioned proprietary document creation technologies with proprietary cross-selling technologies to automatically generate and display additional products incorporating the customer&#8217;s initial design, facilitating the cross-sale of related products and services. In addition, through a global content management system, we ensure that changes and updates to our site experience are reflected across our network of localized Vistaprint websites in multiple languages and currencies. Our Vistaprint software automatically generates and displays one or more additional customized product designs based upon a customer&#8217;s existing design. 

Fulfiller Technologies 

Across our company, our pre-production and production technologies efficiently process and aggregate customer orders, prepare orders for high-quality production and manage production, addressing and shipment of these orders. These technologies allow us to efficiently store, process and aggregate tens of thousands of orders every day. Automated workflows help lower production cost while ensuring quality conformance and on-time delivery to our customers. 

Technology Development 

We intend to continue developing and enhancing our merchant and fulfiller technologies and our manufacturing processes. We have designed our website technologies and infrastructure to accommodate future geographic expansion and growth in the number of customer visits, orders, and product and service offerings. This architecture makes our applications highly scalable and offers our customers fast system responsiveness. In addition, our production technologies for aggregating jobs in preparation for manufacturing are designed to readily scale as we grow. We have engineering and research and development centers in Winterthur, Switzerland and Quarto d'Altino, Italy that are constantly seeking to strengthen our manufacturing and supply chain capabilities through engineering disciplines such as automation, manufacturing, choice of equipment, product manufacturability, materials science, process control and color control. We also have software engineering teams located around the world. Our technology and development expenses were approximately $221 million &#32;( 12% &#32;of total revenues), $194 million (13% of total revenues) and $176 million (14% of total revenues) in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. 

Our Brands 

We have adopted a multi-brand approach, which we believe will help us effectively develop value propositions that resonate strongly with very different parts of our large and heterogeneous addressable market for mass customization. As such, we have structured our organization to provide significant autonomy and decentralization for the individual business units who manage our brands. We believe that this autonomy allows for greater customer responsiveness, increased focus, and more innovation than if we were to manage our customer value proposition centrally. 

We have many localized websites serving countries in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific and South America. Our websites offer a broad assortment of tools and features allowing customers to create a product design or upload their own complete design, and place an order on a completely self-service basis or with varying levels of assistance. There are many types of customer needs that can be addressed differentially. Some examples of where we expect differential approaches by our various business units and brands are customer targets, advertising levels and methods, website user experience, nationally or regionally-specific content or product formats, product breadth and depth, merchandising, creation methods for graphic designs, price, quantity focus, quality attributes, delivery speed and service. 

Brands that target micro businesses 

Our Vistaprint brand helps micro businesses create beautiful, professional quality marketing products at affordable prices and at low volumes. Today, micro businesses make up a large part of our customers. To help our customers market in the digital world, the teams at our Pagemodo and Webs brands develop intuitive DIY solutions that are brought to market via their own brands as well as via the Vistaprint brand. 

&#160; 

Brands that target graphic professionals 

Businesses regularly turn to trusted graphic professionals (either internal to their firm or at third parties) for advice and design services in order to create great looking, customized products like magazines, brochures, flyers, catalogs, packaging, posters, presentation folders, signs, banners, logo apparel, business cards, labels, corporate gifts and more. These Cimpress brands focus on serving graphic professionals: local printers, print resellers, graphic artists, advertising agencies and other customers with professional desktop publishing skillsets. 

&#160; 

Brands that target consumers (home and family) 

Our photo and consumer product brands help preserve and share memories of friends and loved ones, commemorate important life events, and more. Each brand goes to market in a specific country or set of countries. But together, these brands constitute one of the world&#8217;s leading suppliers of photo merchandise such as photo books, wall d&#233;cor, photo gifts, calendars, invitations, announcements, Christmas cards, New Year cards and other seasonal greeting cards. &#160; 

&#160; 

Many of our brands that target graphic professionals also market their product and service offerings to a wider customer base which includes small and micro businesses. In addition to these brands, our Corporate Solutions business unit is focused on developing products and solutions for the needs of small and medium sized businesses as well as larger enterprises through partnership relationships with a value proposition that differs from the traditional Vistaprint brand. 

Plans for our Mass Customization Platform 

By &#8220;mass customization platform&#8221; we mean a constellation of software services and application programming interfaces, plus related technology, services and management operations, which matches fulfiller capabilities and capacity (our manufacturing and supply chain network) with demand from our merchants (our brands). As of July 2016, this shared platform is still under development: we expect to shift a significant portion of our activity to the platform by the end of fiscal 2017. That being said, we expect that we will continue to improve and further develop the mass customization platform for years to come. 

Once the mass customization platform is in use, we plan to route production jobs to the production node in the fulfiller network that is best suited and cost efficient for the type of product ordered, inclusive of delivery. We believe that we can generate significant future customer and shareholder value from increased specialization of production facilities, aggregated scale from multiple brands, increased product offerings and shared technology development costs. 

Competition 

The markets for the products we produce and sell are intensely competitive, highly fragmented and geographically dispersed, with many existing and potential competitors. We compete on the basis of breadth and depth of product offerings; price; convenience; quality; technology; design content, tools, and assistance; customer service; ease of use; and production and delivery speed. It is our intention to offer a broad selection of high-quality products as well as related services at low price points and in doing so, offer our customers an attractive value proposition. Our current competition includes a combination of the following: 

&#8226; 

online companies, many of which provide products and services similar to ours; 

&#8226; 

providers that outsource production to third party suppliers; 

&#8226; 

online photo product companies; 

&#8226; 

internet firms and retailers; 

&#8226; 

traditional offline printers, sign shops, t-shirt suppliers and graphic design providers; 

&#8226; 

wholesale printers; 

&#8226; 

office superstores, drug store chains, food retailers and other major retailers targeting small business and consumer markets; 

&#8226; 

self-service desktop design and publishing using personal computer software with a laser or inkjet printer and specialty paper; 

&#8226; 

suppliers of customized apparel, promotional products and gifts; 

&#8226; 

email marketing and other digital services companies; 

&#8226; 

website design and hosting companies; and 

&#8226; 

providers of other digital marketing such as social media, local search directories and other providers. 

As we expand our geographic reach, product and service portfolio and customer base, our competition increases. Our geographic expansion creates competition with companies that have a multi-national presence as well as experienced local vendors. Product offerings such as photo products, websites, email marketing, signage, apparel and promotional products have resulted in new competition as we entered those markets. We encounter competition from large retailers offering a wide breadth of products and highly focused companies specializing in a subset of our customers or product offerings. Given the state of maturity of the online mass customization market, we believe our biggest competition is still offline providers. 

Barriers to entry have been lowered in many of our markets, and new players have entered the mass customization space, enabled by asset-light models, software-driven print-fulfillment platforms, innovation in 

production technology, and/or benefits of an intense focus on a niche product or geographic market. We believe that the long-term leaders in mass customization will be the companies that are innovative and agile, but also bring significant scale-based advantages to drive value to customers in the form of product selection, quality and cost, as well as service. 

Intellectual Property 

We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and trademarks and contractual restrictions. We enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. 

As of June 30, 2016, we held 263 issued patents worldwide, and we continue to file new patent applications around the world. Subject to our continued payment of required patent maintenance fees, our currently issued patents will expire between December 2017 and May 2034. We hold 73 trademark registrations in various jurisdictions globally. 

Business Segment and Geographic Information 

As of June 30, 2016, our reportable operating segments consisted of the (a) Vistaprint business unit, (b) Upload and Print business units, which includes our druck.at, Exagroup, Easyflyer, Printdeal, Pixartprinting, Tradeprint, and WIRmachenDRUCK branded businesses, and (c) All Other business units, which includes our Albumprinter business unit, our Most of World business units and our newly formed Corporate Solutions business unit. Our Most of World business unit operates in India and in Brazil and Japan (via partial equity ownerships), and we have nascent fully owned operations in China. For more segment and geographic information about our revenues, adjusted net operating profit and long-lived assets, see Item 8 of Part II, &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#8212; Note 17 &#8212; Segment Information&#8221; and Item 7 of Part II, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; The descriptions of our business, products, and markets in this section apply to all of our operating segments. 

Seasonality 

Our profitability has historically been highly seasonal. Our second fiscal quarter, ending December 31, includes the majority of the holiday shopping season and has become our strongest quarter for sales of our consumer-oriented products, such as holiday cards, calendars, photo books, and personalized gifts. Operating income during the second fiscal quarter represented 86% , &#32; 62% , and 61% &#32;of annual operating income in the years ended June 30, 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. The increase in operating income seasonality for fiscal 2016 was impacted by a goodwill impairment charge recognized during the third quarter of the current period. When excluding the impact of the goodwill impairment charge, operating income seasonality is consistent with prior periods. 

Employees 

As of June 30, 2016, we had approximately 7,500 full-time and approximately 500 temporary employees worldwide. 

Corporate Information 

Cimpress N.V. (formerly named Vistaprint N.V.) was incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands on June 5, 2009 and on August 30, 2009 became the publicly traded parent company of the Cimpress group of entities. We maintain our registered office at Hudsonweg 8, 5928 LW Venlo, the Netherlands. Our telephone number in the Netherlands is +31-77-850-7700. As a result of our change of domicile from Bermuda to the Netherlands on August 30, 2009, the common shareholders of Vistaprint Limited became ordinary shareholders of Vistaprint N.V. and Vistaprint N.V. became the publicly traded parent company of the Vistaprint group of entities. Vistaprint Limited, the immediate predecessor corporation to Vistaprint N.V., was incorporated under the laws of Bermuda in April 2002. 

Available Information 

We are registered as a reporting company under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. Accordingly, we file or furnish with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements as required by the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC. The public may 

read and copy our reports, proxy statements and other materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Cimpress N.V, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of this website is www.sec.gov. We make available, free of charge through our United States website, the reports, proxy statements, amendments and other materials we file with or furnish to the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with or to the SEC. The address of our United States website is www.cimpress.com. We are not including the information contained on our website, or information that can be accessed by links contained on our website, as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

