 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

The Wing Experts 

Wingstop is a high-growth franchisor and operator of restaurants that specialize in cooked-to-order, hand-sauced and tossed chicken wings. Founded in 1994 in Garland, Texas, we believe we pioneered the concept of wings as a &#8220;center-of-the-plate&#8221; item for all of our meal occasions. We offer our guests 11 bold, distinctive and craveable flavors on our bone-in and boneless chicken wings paired with hand-cut, seasoned fries and sides made fresh daily. Our menu is highly customizable for different dining occasions, and we believe it delivers a compelling value proposition for groups, families, and individuals. 

We are the largest fast casual chicken wings-focused restaurant chain in the world, and have demonstrated strong, consistent growth on a national scale. Wings are our &#8220;center-of-the-plate&#8221; specialty. While other concepts include wings as add-on menu items or focus on wings in a bar or sports-centric setting, we are singularly focused on wings, fries and sides, which generate approximately 90% &#32;of our sales. 

&#160; 

We believe our simple and efficient restaurant operating model, low initial cash investment and compelling restaurant economics help drive continued system growth through both existing and new franchisees. Our &#8220;wings, fries, sides, repeat&#8221; restaurant operating model requires few ingredients and easy preparation within a small, flexible real estate footprint. During fiscal year 2015 , carry-out orders constituted approximately 75% &#32;of our sales. We believe we offer an attractive investment opportunity for our franchisees as evidenced by our domestic average sales-to-investment ratio of 3.0x &#32;and the 61.1% &#32;increase in domestic restaurant count since the end of 2011. We believe our asset-light, highly-franchised business model generates strong operating margins and requires low capital expenditures, creating shareholder value through strong and consistent free cash flow and capital-efficient growth. 

Our Industry &#32; 

We operate in the rapidly growing, fast casual segment of the restaurant industry. According to Technomic, the fast casual segment generated approximately $39 billion of sales in 2014, representing a 13% increase from 2013. Technomic projects the fast casual segment will exceed $54 billion in annual sales by 2018. According to Technomic, 2014 total sales for restaurants categorized as limited service restaurants, or LSRs, which includes the fast casual segment, increased 4.1% to $240.5 billion. Fast casual concepts, such as Wingstop, attract customers away from other restaurant segments and, accordingly, are generating faster growth than the overall restaurant industry and increasing market share relative to other segments. 

Our Strengths 

Our Wings 

Wingstop is the &#32;destination when our guests crave fresh, cooked-to-order wings with bold, layered flavors that touch all of the senses. People who prioritize flavor prioritize Wingstop-because it is more than a meal, it is a flavor experience. We speak in bold, distinctive and craveable flavors. Our dialect is our 11 proprietary flavors, which range from extremely hot to mild: Atomic, Mango Habanero, Cajun, Original Hot, Louisiana Rub, Mild, Hickory Smoked BBQ, Lemon Pepper, Garlic Parmesan, Hawaiian and Teriyaki. 

Our diverse flavor offerings allow our guests to customize their experience. All of our wings are cooked-to-order, hand-sauced and tossed and served fresh to our guests for dine-in or carry-out. We never use heat lamps or microwaves in the preparation of our food. To complement our wings, we serve hand-cut, freshly-prepared seasoned fries, crafted from carefully-selected whole Russet potatoes. We complete the flavor experience with fresh carrots and celery and ranch and bleu cheese dips made from buttermilk in-house daily, as well as freshly-prepared side items, including coleslaw, bourbon baked beans, potato salad and freshly-baked yeast rolls. We believe our bold and distinctive flavors leave our guests craving more and create a differentiated and tailor-made flavor experience that drives repeat business and brand loyalty. 

Our customizable menu and craveable flavors drive demand across multiple day-parts and occasions. Our 11 flavors, signature fries, freshly-prepared sides and numerous order options (eat-in / to go, individual / combo meals / family packs) allow guests to eat Wingstop during any occasion, whether it is a quick carry-out snack, dine-in dinner with friends or picking up a party size order for their favorite sporting event. 

Compelling Unit Economics 

We believe the growing popularity of the Wingstop experience and the operational simplicity of our restaurants translate into attractive economics at our franchised and company-owned locations. Existing franchisees accounted for approximately 76% of franchised restaurants opened in 2015 &#32;and 2014 , which we believe further underscores our restaurant model&#8217;s financial appeal. 

Our restaurants do not generally experience a &#8220;honeymoon&#8221; period of higher sales upon opening, but instead typically build year over year. Our domestic average unit volume (&#8220;AUV&#8221;) has grown consistently, achieving $1.13 million &#32;during fiscal year 2015 . In addition, new restaurant sales volumes in the first year of operation have improved 45% since 2006, with the 2013 new restaurant openings averaging approximately $820,000 during their first 52 weeks of operations, improving our franchisees&#8217; return on investment. Our restaurants are approximately 1,700 &#32;square feet on average and yield average sales per square foot of $662 &#32;based on 2015 &#32;domestic AUV due to the high average domestic carry-out mix of 75% &#32;in 2015 . Our operational simplicity results in low labor costs, further improving the profitability of our concept. Our operating model targets a low average estimated initial investment of approximately $370,000, excluding real estate purchase or lease costs and pre-opening expenses. In year two of operation, we believe that, on average, our franchisees can achieve an unlevered cash-on-cash return of approximately 35% to 40%. We believe low entry costs and high returns provide a compelling investment opportunity for our franchisees that has helped drive the continued growth of our system. 

Proven Portability 

Our concept is successful across the United States, with restaurants operating in 39 &#32;states across varying geographic regions, population densities and real estate settings. We have had positive same store sales growth across a wide variety of major markets over the last three years. Broad appeal and the simplicity of our restaurant operating model have supported our success across the country. While our concept has succeeded in a variety of real estate formats and locations, our preferred real estate site is an in-line or end-cap retail strip center location available in most shopping centers. The flexibility of our real estate model coupled with the broad appeal of our food has enabled us to profitably locate restaurants in both urban and suburban areas throughout the country. Accordingly, we believe our concept is well-positioned for continued system growth in both existing and new markets. 

Social Engagement 

We believe we have developed a broad, loyal and diverse guest base which is attracted to Wingstop by the unique flavor experience, product quality, brand personality and the convivial nature of eating wings. While we appeal to a broad demographic, we have been particularly successful at actively engaging the coveted Millennial consumer. Millennials leverage technology via smartphones and social media to connect with each other, search out dining experiences and voice their opinions, and we engage them on all of these fronts. We take pride in connecting with our guests, both inside and outside of our restaurants. 

We believe much of our growth is attributable to our focus on meaningful consumer engagement, fueled by social media. We actively engage our core audience in conversation through key social media channels, which in turn drives our editorial calendar 

and advertising content. As of December 26, 2015 , we had 1,137,377 &#32;Facebook followers, 136,331 &#32;Twitter followers and 61,844 &#32;Instagram followers, representing year-over-year growth of 90% , 65% &#32;and 202% , respectively. According to a report published by Forbes &#32;in November 2014, 30% of the time, followers engage with our content over a period of 30 days, compared to an average 3% for the top 25 restaurants in social media cited in the same study. Our social game is just as strong as our wing game and we believe that this continues to inspire brand loyalty and repeat visits to our restaurants. 

Strength In Numbers 

We have demonstrated a consistent track record of strong financial performance: 

&#8226; 

Domestic same store sales increased 13.8% in 2012 , 9.9% &#32;in 2013 , 12.5% &#32;in 2014 &#32;and 7.9% &#32;in 2015 , representing four year cumulative domestic same store sales growth of 44.1% , driven primarily by an increase in transactions, which demonstrates the growing awareness and popularity of our brand; 

&#8226; 

Our domestic same store sales growth is even more meaningful given that we have had 12 consecutive years of positive same store sales; 

&#8226; 

From 2012 &#32;to 2015 , our system-wide sales increased from $457 million to $821 million , which represents growth of 79.6% over the period; 

&#8226; 

Total revenue increased from $51.6 million in 2012 , to $59.0 million &#32;in 2013 , to $67.4 million &#32;in 2014 , to $78.0 million &#32;&#32;in 2015 ; our Adjusted EBITDA increased from $15.6 million, to $19.5 million , to $24.4 million , to $28.9 million , respectively; and our net income grew from $3.6 million, to $7.5 million , to $9.0 million , to $10.1 million , respectively; and 

&#8226; 

From 2012 &#32;to 2015 , our Adjusted EBITDA margin increased from 30.3% in 2012 , to 33.0% &#32;in 2013 , to 36.1% &#32;in 2014 , to 37.0% &#32;&#32;in 2015 , while our capital expenditures were 3.1%, 3.6% , 2.2% , and 2.5% &#32;of revenue, respectively, leading to high cash flow conversion. 

Experienced Management Team 

Our strategic vision and results-driven culture are directed by our executive management team under the leadership of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Charlie Morrison. Charlie joined Wingstop in 2012, bringing more than 20 years of experience in the restaurant and multi-unit retail industry, including leadership positions at Pizza Hut, Boston Market, Kinko&#8217;s, Steak &#38; Ale and, most recently, Rave Restaurant Group, where he served as Chief Executive Officer and led the creation of the award winning Pie Five restaurant concept. Charlie is supported by a strong executive team with significant retail and restaurant experience. Bill Engen, our Chief Operating Officer, previously was the Senior Vice President of Eastern Operations at 7-Eleven, overseeing approximately 4,000 stores. Our Chief Financial Officer, Mike Mravle, came to us from Bloomin&#8217; Brands, where he was the Chief Financial Officer of the U.S. segment. Heading up our marketing efforts is Flynn Dekker, who has over 20 years of experience and was previously the Chief Marketing Officer of Fogo de Chao and Rave Restaurant Group. Dave Vernon, our Chief Development Officer, joined us from Sonic Corporation, where he was Vice President of Franchise Sales, and brings 25 years of experience in the restaurant industry to oversee our franchise development efforts. Larry Kruguer, President of International, joined us in June 2015 from Wendy&#8217;s International, where he served as Vice President, International Joint Ventures. Jay Young, our General Counsel, joined us from CEC Entertainment Inc., the parent company of Chuck E. Cheese&#8217;s, where he was Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Completing our executive team is Stacy Peterson, our Chief Information Officer, who has over 15 years of information technology experience at multi-unit retailers, including Blockbuster and Kinko&#8217;s. We believe our management team is a key driver of our success and positions us well for long-term growth. 

Our Growth Strategy 

Franchise Expansion 

We believe that there is significant opportunity to expand in the United States, and we intend to focus our efforts on increasing our geographic penetration in both existing and new markets. We believe our highly-franchised model positions us for continued strong unit growth over the medium and long-term. We expect high franchisee demand for our brand, supported by compelling unit economics, operational simplicity, low entry costs and flexible real estate profile, to drive domestic restaurant growth. Based on our internal analysis, we believe there is opportunity for our brand to grow to approximately 2,500 &#32;restaurants across the United States. 

We intend to achieve our domestic restaurant potential by expanding in our existing markets where we believe we have the opportunity to more than double our current restaurant count. In addition, we will continue to expand into new markets. Our &#8220;inside out&#8221; domestic market expansion strategy focuses our initial development in urban centers where our core demographic is most densely populated and then builds outward into suburban areas as our brand awareness grows in the market. We have a robust domestic development pipeline including 530 &#32;total commitments to open new franchised restaurants as of December 26, 2015 . Approximately 78% &#32;of our current domestic commitments are from existing franchisees, supporting the attractiveness of our restaurant business model as well as our positive franchisor / franchisee relationships. We believe that our highly-franchised business model provides a platform for continued growth as it allows us to focus on our core strengths of flavor innovation, marketing and guest engagement, and franchisee selection and support, while growing our restaurant presence and brand recognition with limited capital investment by us. 

We also believe that there is significant international growth opportunity. We opened our first international location in Mexico in 2009. As of December 26, 2015 , we had 59 &#32;international restaurants located in Indonesia, Mexico, the Philippines, Russia, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates, all of which were franchised. In 2015 , we opened 24 &#32;international locations. We currently have 284 &#32;international restaurant commitments sold as of December 26, 2015 . Subsequent to year end, we closed our three franchised Wingstop restaurants in Russia, terminated these franchise agreements and exited the Russian market, reducing the number of foreign countries in which we operate to five. We believe that our restaurant operating model will translate well internationally based on our small real estate footprint, our simplicity of operations, the universal and broad appeal of chicken, and our ability to customize our wide variety of flavors to local tastes. 

Domestic Same Store Sales Growth 

&#8226; 

Flavor Innovation 

We plan to leverage flavor innovation to drive restaurant traffic and social media engagement. We do not have limited time offers; instead, we have limited time &#8220;flavor events&#8221; that pique our guests&#8217; interest and drive frequency of visit. We approach additions to our menu as a conversation between us and our guests and make changes only after intense scrutiny in our test kitchen. For example, our Mango Habanero flavor was introduced as a limited time flavor event. When the flavor event ended, overwhelming demand from our highly-engaged social following to bring it back influenced us to return it to the menu as a permanent flavor. We do not believe in &#8220;off-the-shelf&#8221; flavors and are careful not to crowd the menu with too many flavors or any flavors the development of which has not received the attention and care that our guests expect. We anticipate that our powerful and selective flavor innovation will continue to drive domestic same store sales growth. 

&#8226; 

Improve Efficiency to Drive Sales 

We are making focused investments in technology and restaurant design to increase the efficiency of our model and drive increased revenue. We are in the process of rolling out a single integrated POS system. We also launched an updated online ordering system and mobile ordering application, or app, in 2014, that simplifies the ordering process and integrates into our POS system, uniting online and register ordering across our system for the first time. We believe that we can continue to grow sales through integration of orders through our website and app. As an example, since the implementation of our new online ordering platform and app in September 2014 , online ordering increased from less than 7% &#32;of sales during the nine months preceding the launch of the new online ordering platform and app to 15% &#32;of sales during the fourth &#32;quarter of 2015 . Additionally, average transaction size for online orders is approximately $4 &#32;higher than the average for all other orders. As guests&#8217; ordering preferences continue to shift online, we will implement a new front counter design in our existing and new restaurants, creating a dedicated queuing area for guests to efficiently pick up their prepaid online orders. 

&#8226; 

Grow Brand Awareness 

We believe our strong domestic same store sales growth has been supported by growing brand awareness as our concept has expanded. Franchisees in our 13 most penetrated markets have formed advertising co-ops at our direction to leverage their collective local marketing spend to buy traditional and digital media more efficiently. As our restaurant base continues to grow and we further penetrate existing and new markets, we expect to add more advertising co-ops in markets where efficient media purchasing can be achieved. Over time, we believe increased marketing funds contributed to our ad fund combined with local co-op spending will yield sufficient funds to efficiently purchase traditional and digital media nationally to further expand our brand recognition. 

&#8226; 

Leverage Social Media 

We expect that our advertising will become more cost-effective and drive system-wide revenue more efficiently as we grow in scale and further increase our use of social media to activate interest from our guests. We believe social media is a cost-effective way of targeting existing and new guests, as we do not have to purchase as much advertising through more expensive forms of 

traditional media. Furthermore, we believe that our strong and growing social media presence will drive more orders through our online portals. 

Our Franchise 

Franchise Overview 

Our franchisees operated a total of 826 &#32;restaurants in 39 &#32;states, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Southeast Asia as of December 26, 2015 . We have rigorous qualification criteria and training programs for our franchisees and require them to adhere to strict operating standards. We work hard to ensure that every Wingstop franchise location meets the same quality and customer service benchmarks in order to preserve the consistency and reliability of the Wingstop brand. 

We have a broad and diversified domestic franchisee base. As of December 26, 2015 , approximately 98% &#32;of our domestic restaurant base was franchised with approximately 23% of our restaurants operated by franchisees who own more than ten restaurants, approximately 14% of our restaurants operated by franchisees who owned six to ten restaurants, approximately 43% of our restaurants operated by franchisees who owned two to five restaurants, and approximately 19% of our restaurants owned by franchisees who owned only one restaurant. Our domestic franchise base has an average restaurant ownership of approximately 2.7 restaurants per franchisee. 

Franchise Agreements . Our franchisees execute a separate franchise agreement for each restaurant opened, typically providing for a 10-year initial term, with an opportunity to enter into one or more renewal franchise agreements subject to certain conditions. Our standard franchise agreement changes from time to time, and terms may vary among franchisees. We generally update and/or revise our franchise agreement on an annual basis and, as a result, the agreements we enter into with individual franchisees may vary. Our current franchise documents provide that franchisees must pay a franchise fee of $20,000 for the first restaurant opened under a development agreement and $12,500 for each additional restaurant opened. If a franchisee has entered into an area development agreement with us (which occurs, in most cases, even if a franchisee wants to develop only one restaurant), the aggregate initial fee currently is $30,000 for the first restaurant and $22,500 for each subsequent restaurant under such development agreement, in each case including a $10,000 development fee per restaurant. The $10,000 development fee per restaurant to-be-developed is paid in full at the time a development agreement is signed for the grant of development rights and is not refundable. The majority of our existing franchise agreements require our franchisees to pay us a royalty of 5% of their gross sales net of discounts. New franchise agreements signed pursuant to development agreements entered into on or after July 1, 2014 require our franchisees to pay us a royalty of 6% of their gross sales net of discounts. Our franchise agreements allow us to assess franchisees an advertising fund contribution based on their gross sales net of discounts. We currently charge a national advertising fund contribution equal to 2% of gross sales under all existing franchise agreements. In addition, franchisees may vote to increase their required advertising fund contribution. Our current form of franchise agreement also requires franchisees to spend at least 1% of their gross sales on local advertising and promotions. Franchisees operating under pre-2014 forms of franchise agreement were not contractually required to spend any minimum amount on local advertising, although we recommended that they spend at least 4% of their restaurants&#8217; gross sales on advertising and marketing. 

The boundaries of the area in which a franchisee may locate its restaurant, which we refer to as the development area, depend on the population and other demographic features of the locale in which the franchisee wants to locate its restaurant(s). The development area may range from a sector of a large metropolitan area to the city or county limits of a smaller municipality. Based on the franchisee&#8217;s proposal and our analysis, we identify and describe in the development agreement the boundaries of an appropriately-sized development area and, if we expect the franchisee to operate more than one restaurant, the number of restaurants that must be developed in the development area. The development agreement does not permit us to change the development area after it is established. Whether a development agreement covers one or several restaurants, it contains a schedule of the dates by which the franchisee must sign leases and open each restaurant, and failure by the franchisee to adhere to the development agreement&#8217;s schedule is an event of default under the development agreement. 

All of our franchise agreements require that each franchised restaurant be operated in accordance with our defined operating procedures, adhere to the menu we establish and meet applicable quality, service, health and cleanliness standards. We may terminate the franchise rights of any franchisee who does not comply with our standards and requirements. We believe that maintaining superior food quality, an inviting and energetic atmosphere and excellent guest service are critical to the reputation and success of our concept. Therefore, we aggressively enforce the contractual requirements of our franchise agreements. 

How We Support our Franchisees 

Site Selection and Development . Franchisees operating in the United States must use our approved real estate broker in their markets during the site search, review, and leasing process. We also have lists of approved site surveyors, permit expeditors and 

architectural and engineering consultants for restaurant development and build-out. We give franchisees general guidelines to follow and consider in choosing a site for any new restaurant. We do not own any real estate in the United States on which franchised restaurants are located and do not lease restaurant sites to franchisees. 

&#160; 

We provide franchisees information about a typical restaurant&#8217;s lay-out, utility requirements and signs and, in the United States, a lease rider containing provisions we require to be attached to every restaurant lease. Once a domestic franchisee has selected one or more proposed sites, we will evaluate and critique the written site proposals required to be submitted for our consideration and may, at our option, visit the development area to inspect the sites proposed. Franchisees may not proceed with negotiations to lease a site before we approve that site. 

We currently are not significantly involved in our international franchisees&#8217; site selection process. We review but do not pre-approve the sites they select for their franchised restaurants. However, we give our international franchisees general guidelines to follow and request them to complete a site analysis for our oversight as they finalize the site selections for their restaurants. We do not own any real estate internationally on which franchised restaurants are located and do not lease restaurant sites to franchisees. 

Training, Pre-Opening Assistance and Ongoing Support . Franchisees (along with their manager(s)) must attend and successfully complete a 4-week training program before we will issue an opening date for a restaurant. Our training program covers various topics, including: Wingstop culture, food preparation and storage, food safety, specific position training, uniforms, cleaning and sanitation, marketing and advertising, POS systems, accounting and hospitality, among others. Unless a franchisee commits to operate his or her own restaurant ( i.e. , &#8220;owner-operated&#8221;), the franchisee must hire a general manager who either has roots in the general area where the restaurant is located or is willing to move to the general area. Our international franchisees likewise must complete required training and are principally responsible for training their managers and other employees. 

When a domestic franchisee opens his or her first Wingstop restaurant, we provide the owner with an opening restaurant trainer for up to 6 days and may elect to send an opening restaurant trainer to a franchisee&#8217;s second or later restaurant location for an amount of time we determine to be appropriate. We also provide lists of approved inventory, suppliers and small-wares that are needed to stock and operate each restaurant and help franchisees locate qualified suppliers of chicken and other supplies and ingredients that meet our specifications. 

We also have an internal operations infrastructure that provides ongoing support to our franchisees. We utilize a field-based team of franchise business consultants who act as local resources to assist our franchisees to run their restaurants in accordance with Wingstop standards and who also assist with efforts to grow restaurant sales. The main responsibilities of our franchise business consultants include communicating and conveying certain initiatives and process enhancements to our franchisees and conducting business reviews in order to assist franchisees to operate more efficiently, with a focus on increasing restaurant sales and profits. Additionally, we maintain programs to monitor and evaluate the adherence of franchised restaurants to our quality, service and cleanliness standards. For example, we have a group of field alignment managers who conduct standardized quarterly reviews of each of our franchised restaurants&#8217; operations to help ensure that our brand standards are maintained. We also employ a third-party mystery shopper program to monitor guest experience and quality standards at franchised restaurants in the United States. 

In addition to our hands-on training and assistance, we provide an operations manual to each restaurant location that includes sections on topics such as: business operations, food safety, crew, hospitality, quality products, guest services, packaging and presentation, restaurant cleaning, restaurant and equipment maintenance, POS systems, quality control, advertising and marketing and emergency management. 

Franchise Advisory Council . In December 2002, we organized a Franchise Advisory Council, which we refer to as the Council, to consult with us about system-wide advertising themes and campaigns and other operational matters. The Council is composed of 11 franchise members, all of whom are elected by our franchisees, and meets quarterly to review marketing strategies and provide input on topics such as advertising messages, operational standards and system-wide initiatives. While the Council functions only in an advisory capacity, and we may disregard its recommendations if we choose, we view the Council as an important component of our franchisee support program. 

&#160; 

Point-of-Sale System . We require that our franchisees utilize a uniform POS system. We are currently upgrading to a more robust POS system from prior legacy systems and expect to complete the rollout system-wide over the next eighteen months. Both our legacy and our new POS systems, in conjunction with our Intranet system, allow us to track sales at each restaurant location. Our restaurant operations require no other &#32; computers for a restaurant location. Our new POS system will integrate with our new online ordering app, allowing for seamless recording and tracking of sales. Furthermore, our new POS system will provide our franchisees with additional back office tools that we believe will assist in cost control, create operational efficiencies and drive sales. &#32; 

Supply Chain Assistance . We assist our franchisees by negotiating regional and national contracts for chicken and other commodities and other items needed to develop and operate a Wingstop restaurant. We designate and approve suppliers in order to ensure that all ingredients and supplies utilized in our restaurants satisfy our grade and quality standards. As we negotiate regional and national contracts, we seek to promote the overall interests of our franchise system and our interests as the franchisor. We approve suppliers based on their ability to meet our specifications and quality control requirements and to supply products to our franchisees at competitive prices. 

Research and Development . We lead product innovation and testing efforts for our franchisees, including new wing sauce flavors, side items, new chicken wing, chicken strip or other menu additions, and new beverage options. New product research and development is located in our headquarters facility in Dallas, Texas. We rely on our internal culinary team and, from time to time, third party experts, leveraging consumer research to develop and test new products for our franchised and company-owned restaurants. 

Marketing and Advertising Support 

We utilize four levels of advertising: (1) system-wide advertising, which is coordinated through our ad fund; (2) digital and social media advertising; (3) local advertising, which franchisees handle with materials we create or approve; and (4) cooperative advertising among multiple franchisees in a given market. Franchisees may not use their own advertising materials without our prior permission. 

Ad Fund . We created a not-for-profit advertising fund in July 1999, which we refer to as the ad fund. All restaurants, including our company-owned restaurants, must contribute to the ad fund. Our franchise agreements allow us to assess domestic franchisees an ad fund contribution based on their gross sales net of discounts. We currently charge 2% of gross sales under all existing domestic franchise agreements. 

We direct and retain sole control over all advertising and promotions that the ad fund finances. We use a national advertising agency to create our advertising and promotional materials. We use another agency to create localized versions of our advertising and promotional materials. 

Digital Advertising . We currently utilize an extensive range of social media and digital marketing tools including, search engine, programmatic, native, video on demand and social media advertising. We also maintain website hosting and manage the development and maintenance of the mobile Wingstop app. We market Wingstop products, services and restaurants through our website that we maintain at www.wingstop.com. It features a site locator page on the website showing the addresses, telephone numbers and ability to online order for each restaurant. At a national level, we advertise in Google, Yahoo and Bing through search engine advertising and also in Facebook and Twitter via paid social advertising. Additionally, we assist franchisees in planning and executing localized geo-targeted digital marketing for their restaurants, including internet and mobile marketing. 

&#160; 

Franchisees may not use electronic media to advertise their restaurants, including the Internet or mobile, without first obtaining our written consent and complying with any conditions and restrictions we wish to impose. We may assess franchisees a fee of up to $100 per month to pay for our Website&#8217;s and Intranet&#8217;s maintenance and improvement costs. 

Social Media . Wingstop has a strong brand presence in both emerging and well-established social media platforms for digital collaboration, including smartphone apps and native sites including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Tumblr. We adhere to social media guidelines that embody our strategic vision and apply to both company-owned and franchised restaurants. These guidelines will continually evolve as new technologies and social networking tools emerge. 

Local Advertising . We advertise our company-owned restaurants primarily through online and mobile advertising and paid search, and expect franchisees to follow the same pattern. Our current form of franchise agreement requires franchisees to spend at least 1% of their gross sales on local advertising and promotions, which is in addition to amounts contributed to the ad fund as described above. Franchisees operating under pre-2014 forms of franchise agreement were not contractually required to spend any minimum amount on local advertising, although we recommended that they spend at least 4% of their restaurants&#8217; gross sales on local advertising and marketing. 

Advertising Cooperatives . When a franchisee and at least one other restaurant operator have opened restaurants in the same designated market area (&#8220;DMA&#8221;), we may require the franchisee and the other operator(s) to form a cooperative advertising association. Each cooperative&#8217;s members will set their cooperative&#8217;s required contribution rate, but we retain the right to disapprove a rate lower than 2% of gross sales. Contributions to advertising cooperatives are credited toward a franchisee&#8217;s 1% local advertising obligation. Currently, the members of an advertising cooperative administer the cooperative, and we step in only to resolve disputes. In that event, our decision is binding. 

As of December 26, 2015 , advertising cooperatives have been formed in the following DMAs: Phoenix, Arizona; Los Angeles, California; Sacramento-Stockton-Modesto, California; San Diego, California; San Francisco, California; Denver, Colorado; Miami-Ft. Lauderdale, Florida; Chicago, Illinois; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Austin, Texas; Dallas / Ft. Worth, Texas; Houston, Texas; and San Antonio, Texas. 

Competition 

The restaurant industry is intensely competitive. We compete on the basis of the taste, quality and price of food offered, guest service, ambiance, location and overall dining experience. We believe that our attractive price-value relationship, our flexible service model and the quality and distinctive flavor of our food enable us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. 

We believe we compete primarily with fast casual establishments and quick service restaurants such as other wing-based take-out concepts, local and regional sports bars and casual dining restaurants. Many fast casual and carry-out concepts offer wings as add-on items to other food categories such as pizza, but typically do not focus on wings. Other competitors emphasize wings in a bar or sports-centric setting. Many of these direct and indirect competitors are well-established national, regional or local chains. We also compete with many restaurant and retail establishments for site locations and restaurant-level employees. 

Suppliers and Distribution 

We insist that all ingredients and supplies utilized in Wingstop restaurants satisfy our grade and quality standards. Our franchisees are required to purchase all chicken, groceries, produce, beverages, equipment and signage, furniture, fixtures, logo-imprinted paper goods and cleaning supplies solely from suppliers that we designate and approve. We regularly inspect vendors to ensure that products purchased conform to our standards and that prices offered are competitive. 

&#160; 

The principal raw materials for a Wingstop restaurant operation are bone-in and boneless chicken wings. Therefore, chicken is our largest product cost item and represented 69% of all purchases for 2015 . Company-owned and franchised restaurants purchase their bone-in and boneless chicken wings from suppliers that we designate and approve. We designate sources for potatoes to ensure that they are grown to our specifications. We also require franchisees to use our proprietary sauces, seasonings and spice blends and purchase them and other proprietary products only from designated sources. 

All food items and packaging goods for our restaurants can be sourced through one vendor, The Sygma Network, Inc., which we refer to as Sygma. There are eight regional Sygma distribution centers which carry all products required for a Wingstop restaurant and service all of our domestic locations. Sygma is obligated under our agreement to deliver at least twice weekly to our restaurants. We contract directly with manufacturers to sell product to Sygma, who in turn receives a fee for delivering these items to our restaurants. The majority of our highest spend items are formula or fixed contract priced. We have also negotiated agreements with our soft drink suppliers to offer soft drink dispensing systems, along with associated branded products, in all Wingstop restaurants. 

As the Wingstop system grows, we will continue to negotiate regional or national contracts for chicken and other commodities and other items needed to develop and operate all of our restaurants and may use a designated or approved supplier approach. 

Management Information / Technology Systems 

We have our core management information systems in place and believe they are scalable to support our future growth plans. We specify a standard POS system in all of our company-owned restaurants and many franchised restaurants that helps facilitate the operation of the restaurants by recording sales, cost of sales and labor and other operating metrics and allows managers to create various reports to assess performance. Our POS system is configured to record and store financial information in a manner that we specify, and we require franchisees to provide us with continual and unlimited independent access to all information on each POS system. As noted above, we are in the process of upgrading our POS system and believe our current information systems are sufficient to support our planned expansion for the foreseeable future. 

In September 2014, we began rolling-out an updated online ordering system and mobile ordering application with a new look and feel. Our updated system and app make it easy for our guests to order-ahead, which we believe will increase the frequency of their visits and lead to higher check averages. Since the beginning of this rollout, we have seen significant increases in our online sales as a percentage of domestic sales. 

We require that our and our franchisees&#8217; electronic information systems, including POS systems, comply with and maintain established network security standards, including applicable Payment Card Industry (PCI) standards. 

Intellectual Property and Trademarks 

We own a number of trademarks and service marks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We have registered the following marks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office: WING-STOP &#174; ; Wing-Stop-The Wing Experts and Design; WINGSTOP; THE WING EXPERTS; and THE BONELESS WING EXPERTS. We have also registered the Internet domain name: www.wingstop.com. 

We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position, and, therefore, we devote resources to the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. 

&#160; 

Seasonality &#32; 

Our restaurants have not experienced significant seasonal revenue fluctuations that can be attributed to seasonal factors. 

Employees &#32; 

As of December 26, 2015 , we employed 428 &#32;persons, of whom 138 &#32;were full-time corporate-based and regional personnel. The remainder was part-time or restaurant-level employees. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we believe that we have good relations with our employees. Our franchise owners are independent business owners, so they and their employees are not included in our employee count. 

Government Regulation 

Federal . We and our franchisees are subject to varied federal regulations affecting the operation of our business. We and our franchisees are subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, the U.S. Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, the Occupational Safety and Health Act and various other federal and state laws governing such matters as minimum wage requirements, overtime, fringe benefits, workplace safety and other working conditions and citizenship requirements. A significant number of our and our franchisees&#8217; food service personnel are paid at rates related to the applicable minimum wage, and past increases in the minimum wage have increased our and our franchisees&#8217; labor costs, as would future increases. Further, we are continuing to assess the impact of recently-adopted federal health care legislation on our health care benefit costs. Many of our smaller franchisees have few enough employees that they may qualify for exemption from the mandatory requirement to provide health insurance benefits. The imposition of any requirement that we or our franchisees provide health insurance benefits to our or their employees that are more extensive than the health insurance benefits we currently provide to our employees or that franchise owners may or may not provide, or the imposition of additional employer paid employment taxes on income earned by our employees, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our distributors and suppliers also may be affected by higher minimum wage and benefit standards, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us and our franchisees. 

We and our franchisees are also required to comply with the accessibility standards mandated by the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and related federal and state statutes, which generally prohibit discrimination in accommodations or employment based on disability. We and our franchisees may in the future have to modify our restaurants to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons. While these expenses could be material, our current expectation is that any such actions will not require us to expend substantial funds. 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (PPACA), enacted in March 2010, requires chain restaurants with 20 or more locations in the United States to comply with federal nutritional disclosure requirements. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently published the final rules on menu and vending machine nutrition labeling, which amended section 403(q) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) to establish requirements for the nutrition labeling of standard menu items at restaurants or similar retail food establishments with 20 or more locations and became effective December 1, 2015. Under the rule, calorie information must be provided clearly and conspicuously next to the listed standard menu item on a menu or menu board. In addition to calorie information, each menu or menu board must prominently include a succinct statement concerning suggested caloric intake. Upon request, covered establishments must provide information about the total calories, calories from fat, total fat, saturated fat, trans fat, cholesterol, sodium, total carbohydrates, fiber, sugars, and protein in their standard menu items. The rule contains detailed requirements for providing calorie and nutrition information and determining nutrient content. The effect of such labeling requirements on consumer choices, if any, is unclear at this time. 

&#160; 

Furthermore, a number of states, counties and cities have previously enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose certain nutritional information to customers, or have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. Although the federal legislation is intended to preempt conflicting state or local laws on nutritional labeling, until our system is required to comply with the federal law we and our franchisees will be subject to a patchwork of state 

and local laws and regulations regarding nutritional content disclosure requirements. Many of these requirements are inconsistent or are interpreted differently from one jurisdiction to another. 

There is also a potential for increased regulation of food in the United States, such as recent changes in the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) system requirements. HACCP refers to a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of potential hazards from production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product. Many states have adopted legislation or implemented regulations which require restaurants to develop and implement HACCP systems. Similarly, the United States Congress and the FDA continue to expand the sectors of the food industry that must adopt and implement HACCP programs. The Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) was signed into law in January 2011 and significantly expanded the FDA&#8217;s authority over food safety, granting the FDA authority to proactively ensure the safety of the entire food system, including through new and additional hazard analysis, food safety planning, increased inspections and permitting mandatory food recalls. Although restaurants are specifically exempted from some of these new requirements and not directly implicated by other requirements, we anticipate that some of the FSMA provisions and the FDA&#8217;s implementation of the new requirements may impact our industry. We cannot assure you that we will not have to expend additional time and resources to comply with new food safety requirements required by either the FSMA or future federal food safety regulation or legislation. Additionally, our suppliers may initiate or otherwise be subject to food recalls that may impact the availability of certain products, result in adverse publicity or require us to take actions that could be costly for us or otherwise harm our business. 

We and our franchisees are also subject to anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws that apply in countries where we do business. The FCPA, UK Bribery Act and these other laws generally prohibit us, our food service personnel, our franchisees, their food service personnel and intermediaries from bribing, being bribed or making other prohibited payments to government officials or other persons to obtain or retain business or gain some other business advantage. We operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential FCPA violations, and we participate in relationships with third parties whose actions could potentially subject us to liability under the FCPA or local anti-corruption laws. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. 

We and our franchisees are also subject to other laws and regulations governing our international operations, including regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce&#8217;s Bureau of Industry and Security, the U.S. Department of Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Asset Control, and various non-U.S. government entities, including applicable export control regulations, economic sanctions on countries and persons, customs requirements, currency exchange regulations and transfer pricing regulations. 

One of the legal foundations fundamental to the franchise business model has been that, absent special circumstances, a franchisor is generally not responsible for the acts, omissions or liabilities of its franchisees. Recently, established law has been challenged by the plaintiffs&#8217; bar and certain regulatory agencies and the outcome of these challenges remains unknown. If these challenges are successful in altering currently settled law, it could significantly change the way we and other franchisors conduct business and adversely impact our profitability. For example, a determination that we are a &#8220;joint employer&#8221; with our franchisees or that franchisees are part of one unified system with joint and several liability under the National Labor Relations Act, statutes administered by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, regulations and other areas of labor and employment law could subject us and/or our franchisees to liability for the unfair labor practices, wage-and-hour law violations, employment discrimination law violations, OSHA regulation violations and other employment-related liabilities of one or more franchisees. 

State . We are subject to extensive and varied state and local government regulation affecting the operation of our business, as are our franchisees, including regulations relating to public and occupational health and safety, sanitation, fire prevention and franchise operation. Each franchised restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, including with respect to zoning, health, safety, sanitation, nutritional information disclosure, environmental and building and fire safety, in the jurisdiction in which the franchised restaurant is located. Our and our franchisees&#8217; licenses to sell alcoholic beverages must be renewed annually and may be suspended or revoked at any time for cause, including violation by us or our employees, or our franchisees or their employees, of any law or regulation pertaining to alcoholic beverage control, such as those regulating the minimum age of patrons or employees, advertising, wholesale purchasing and inventory control. 

We require our franchisees to operate in accordance with standards and procedures designed to comply with applicable codes and regulations. However, our or our franchisees&#8217; inability to obtain or retain health department or other licenses would adversely affect operations at the impacted restaurant or restaurants. Although we have not experienced, and do not anticipate, any significant difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining required licenses, permits or approvals, any such problem could delay or prevent the opening, or adversely impact the viability, of a particular restaurant. 

We and our franchisees may be subject in certain states to &#8220;dram-shop&#8221; statutes, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. 

In addition, in order to develop and construct our restaurants, we and our franchisees need to comply with applicable zoning and land use regulations. Federal and state regulations have not had a material effect on our operations to date, but more stringent and varied requirements of local governmental bodies with respect to zoning and land use could delay or even prevent construction and increase development costs of new restaurants. 

In addition, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission and various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. The Federal Trade Commission and various state franchise laws require that we furnish a franchise disclosure document containing certain information to prospective franchisees in advance of any franchise sale or the receipt of any consideration for the franchise, and a number of states require registration of the franchise disclosure document at least annually with state authorities. We are operating under exemptions from registration (though not disclosure) in several states based on our qualifications for exemption as set forth in each such state&#8217;s laws. Substantive state laws that regulate the franchisor-franchisee relationship, including in the areas of termination and non-renewal, presently exist in a substantial number of states. We believe that our franchise disclosure document and franchising procedures comply in all material respects with both the Federal Trade Commission guidelines and all applicable state laws regulating franchising in those states in which we have offered franchises. 

International . Our franchised restaurants in Europe, Mexico and Southeast Asia are subject to national and local laws and regulations. We believe that our international franchised restaurants and procedures comply in all material respects with the laws of the applicable foreign jurisdiction. Subsequent to year end, we closed our three franchised Wingstop restaurants in Russia, terminated these franchise agreements and exited the Russian market, reducing the number of foreign counties in which we operate to five. 

Environmental . Our operations, including the selection and development of company-owned and franchised restaurants and any construction or improvements we or our franchisees make at those locations, are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning waste disposal, pollution, protection of the environment and the presence, discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of (or exposure to), hazardous or toxic substances. We provide training to, and require compliance with applicable laws by, our employees and franchisees in the use of chemicals, which are primarily used in small quantities for cleaning our restaurants. Storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances are not a significant part of our operations. Generally, our restaurants are located in residential neighborhoods but sometimes might be located in areas which were previously occupied by more environmentally significant operations. Environmental laws can provide for significant fines and penalties for non-compliance and liabilities for remediation and sometimes require owners or operators of contaminated property to remediate the property, regardless of fault. We are not aware of any environmental laws that will materially affect our results of operations, or result in material capital expenditures relating to our operations. However, we cannot predict what environmental laws will be enacted in the future, how existing or future environmental laws will be administered, interpreted or enforced, or the amount of future expenditures that we may need to comply with, or to satisfy claims relating to, environmental laws. 

Available Information 

We maintain a website at www.wingstop.com, including an investor relations section at ir.wingstop.com in which we routinely post important information, such as webcast of quarterly calls and other investor events in which we participate or host, and any related materials. Our Code of Conduct is also in this section of our website. You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may also read and copy materials we file with or furnish the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.SEC.gov. 

The contents of the website mentioned above are not incorporated into and should not be considered part of this report. The references to URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

