 Item 1. Description of Business 

General 

Bioethics, Ltd., (the &#147;Registrant&#148; or the &#147;Company&#148;) is a shell company that conducts no active business operations and is seeking business opportunities for acquisition or participation by the Company.

History 

The Company was incorporated in 1990 as a Nevada corporation. The Company has not yet generated any significant revenues.

Since its organization in 1990, the Company has not engaged in active business operations and its activities have consisted of its search for and evaluation of potential business opportunities for acquisition or participation by the Company. During this period, the Company has incurred limited operating expenses necessary to maintain its status as a corporation in good standing and has incurred expenses in connection with its search for and evaluation of potential business opportunities. Due to the lack of active operations and the Company&#146;s stated purpose of seeking to acquire a currently unknown business opportunity, the Company may be classified as a &#147;shell&#148; company subject to all the risks of a new business together with the substantial risks associated with the search for and acquisition of business opportunities.

In June 2014 the Company issued a total of 105,000,000 shares of common stock valued at $292,500 in settlement of all outstanding shareholder notes, in the principal amount of $91,000 and accrued interest to date of settlement in the amount of $14,000 for satisfaction in full of all notes and interest payable as of June 17, 2014. The 105,000,000 shares were issued to our then CEO, President, CFO, and sole director, Bradly Petersen who had purchased these notes and accrued interest from a minority shareholder. The excess fair value of the stock issued over the book value of the debt has been recorded as a loss on extinguishment of debt in the amount of $187,500.

Business Plan 

The Company intends to continue to seek, investigate and, if warranted, acquire an interest in a business opportunity. Management has not established any firm criteria with respect to the type of business with which the Company desires to become involved and will consider participating in a business enterprise in a variety of different industries or areas with no limitation as to the geographical location of the enterprise. The Company&#146;s management will have unrestricted discretion in reviewing, analyzing, and ultimately selecting a business enterprise for acquisition or participation by the Company. It is anticipated that any enterprise ultimately selected will be selected by management based on its analysis and evaluation of the business and financial condition of the enterprise, as well as its business plan, potential for growth, and other factors, none of which can be anticipated to be controlling. If the Company is able to locate a suitable business enterprise, the decision to acquire or participate in the enterprise may be made by the Company&#146;s board of directors without stockholder approval. Approval may also be obtained pursuant to the consent of a majority of the Company&#146;s stockholders and, since the principal stockholder of the Company owns approximately 90% of the Company&#146;s outstanding shares, he would be able to approve any transaction without the affirmative vote of additional shares. Further, it is anticipated that the acquisition of or participation in an enterprise may involve the issuance by the Company of a controlling interest in the Company which would dilute the respective equity interests of the Company&#146;s stockholders and may also result in a reduction of the Company&#146;s net tangible asset value per share. 

The activities of the Company will continue to be subject to several significant risks which arise primarily as a result of the fact that the Company has no specific business and may acquire or participate in a business opportunity based on the decision of management which will, in all probability, act without the consent, vote, or approval of the Company&#146;s stockholders. The risks faced by the Company are further increased as a result of its limited resources and its inability to provide a prospective business opportunity with additional capital. (See &#147;Item 1A. Risk Factors.&#148;) 

Although management believes that it is in the best interest of the Company to acquire or participate in a business enterprise, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to locate a business enterprise which management believes is suitable for acquisition or participation by the Company or that if an enterprise is located, it can be acquired on terms acceptable to the Company. Similarly, there can be no assurance that if any business opportunity is acquired, it will perform in accordance with management&#146;s expectations or result in any profit to the Company or appreciation in the market price for the Company&#146;s shares. 

If business opportunities become available, the selection of an opportunity in which to participate will be complex and extremely risky and may be made on management&#146;s analysis of the quality of the other company&#146;s management and personnel, the anticipated acceptability of new products or marketing concepts, the merit of technological changes, and numerous other factors which are difficult, if not impossible to analyze through the application of any objective criteria. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to identify and acquire any business opportunity which will ultimately prove to be beneficial to the Company and its stockholders.

It is anticipated that business opportunities may be introduced to the Company from a variety of sources, including its sole officer and director, and his business and social contacts, professional advisors such as attorneys and accountants, securities broker-dealers, venture capitalists, members of the franchise community, and others who may present unsolicited proposals. 

The Company will not restrict its search to any particular business, industry, or geographical location. The Company may enter into a business or opportunity involving a &#147;start-up&#148; or new company or an established business. It is impossible to predict the status of any business in which the Company may become engaged.

The period within which the Company may participate in a business opportunity cannot be predicted and will depend on circumstances beyond the Company&#146;s control, including the availability of business opportunities, the time required for the Company to complete its investigation and analysis of prospective business opportunities, the time required to prepare the appropriate documents and agreements providing for the Company&#146;s participation, and other circumstances. 

It is impossible to predict the manner in which the Company may participate in a business opportunity. Specific business opportunities will be reviewed and, on the basis of that review, the legal structure or method deemed by management to be most suitable will be selected. The structure may include, but is not limited to, mergers, reorganizations, leases, purchase and sale agreements, licenses, joint ventures, and other contractual arrangements. The Company may act directly or indirectly through an interest in a partnership, corporation, or other form of organization. Implementing the structure may require the merger, consolidation, or reorganization of the Company with other corporations or forms of business organization, and there is no assurance that the Company would be the surviving entity. In addition, the current stockholders of the Company may not have control of a majority of the voting shares of the Company following a reorganization transaction. As part of the transaction, all or a majority of the Company&#146;s directors may resign and new directors may be appointed without any vote by the stockholders. 

The Company will most likely acquire a business opportunity by issuing shares of the Company&#146;s common stock to the owners of the business opportunity. Although the terms of the transaction cannot be pre&#173;dicted, in many instances the business opportunity entity will require that the transaction by which the Company acquires its participation be &#147;tax-free&#148; under Sections 351 or 368 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the &#147;Code&#148;). It is anticipated that any business opportunity acquisition will result in substantial additional dilution to the equity of those who were stockholders of the Company prior to the acquisition.

Notwithstanding the fact that the Company is technically the acquiring entity in the foregoing circumstances, generally accepted accounting principles will ordinarily require that the transaction be accounted for as if the Company had been acquired by the other entity owning the business venture or opportunity and, therefore, will not permit a write up in the carrying value of the assets of the other company.

It is anticipated that securities issued in a transaction of this type would be issued in reliance on exemptions from registration under applicable federal and state securities laws. In some circumstances, however, as a negotiated element of the transaction, the Company may agree to register such securities either at the time the transaction is consummated or under certain conditions or at specified times thereafter. The issuance of a substantial number of additional securities and their potential sale into any trading market which may develop in the Company&#146;s common stock may have a depressive effect on the market price for the Company&#146;s common stock. 

The Company will participate in a business opportunity only after the negotiation and execution of a written agreement. Although the terms of the agreement cannot be predicted, generally the agreement would require specific representations and warranties by all of the parties thereto, specify certain events of default, detail the terms of closing and the conditions which must be satisfied by each of the parties thereto prior to the closing, set forth remedies on default, and include miscellaneous other terms.

It is emphasized that management of the Company has broad discretion in determining the manner by which the Company will participate in a prospective business opportunity and may enter into transactions having a potentially adverse impact on the current stockholders in that their percentage ownership in the Company may be reduced without any increase in the value of their investment or that the business opportunity in which the Company acquires an interest may ultimately prove to be unprofitable. The transaction may be consummated without being submitted to the stockholders of the Company for their consideration. In some instances, however, the proposed participation in a business opportunity may be submitted to the stockholders for their consideration, either voluntarily by the board of directors to seek the stockholders&#146; advice or consent or because of a requirement to do so by state law.

The investigation of specific business opportunities and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments may require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, and others. If a decision is made not to participate in a specific business opportunity, the costs previously incurred in the related investigation would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached for the participation in a specific business opportunity, the failure to consummate that transaction may result in the loss to the Company of the related costs incurred.

The Company&#146;s operations following its acquisition of an interest in a business opportunity will be dependent on the nature of the opportunity and interest acquired. The specific risks of a given business opportunity cannot be predicted at the present time.

The Company is not registered and does not propose to register as an &#147;investment company&#148; under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the &#147;Investment Act&#148;). The Company intends to conduct its activities so as to avoid being classified as an &#147;investment company&#148; under the Investment Act and, therefore to avoid application of the registration and other provisions of the Investment Company Act and the related regulations.

Regulation 

It is impossible to predict what government regulation the Company may be subject to until it has acquired an interest in a business opportunity. The use of assets and/or conduct of businesses which the Company may acquire could subject it to environmental, public health and safety, land use, trade, or other governmental regulations and state or local taxation. In selecting a business opportunity to acquire, manage&#173;ment will endeavor to ascertain, to the extent of the limited resources of the Company, the effects of government regulation on the prospective business of the Company. In certain circum&#173;stances, however, such as the acquisition of an interest in a new or start-up business activity, it may not be possible to predict with any degree of accuracy the impact of government regulation.

Competition 

The Company encounters substantial competition in its efforts to locate a business opportunity. The primary competition for desirable investments comes from investment bankers, business development companies, venture capital partner&#173;ships and corporations, venture capital affiliates of large industrial and financial companies, small business investment companies, other shell companies, and wealthy individuals. Most of these entities have signifi&#173;cantly greater experience, resources, and managerial capabilities than the Company and are in a better position than the Company to obtain access to attractive business opportunities.

Facilities 

&#160;

The Company&#146;s offices are located at 1661 Lakeview Circle, Ogden, Utah 84403. Such space is provided to the Company without charge. 

Employees 

The Company has no employees and its business and affairs are handled by its president who provides services to the Company on an as needed basis, without compensation. Management of the Company may engage consultants, attorneys, and accountants on an as needed basis, and does not anticipate a need to engage any full-time employees so long as it is seeking and evaluating business opportunities. 

