 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

Gladstone Commercial Corporation (which we refer to as &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; or the &#147;Company&#148;) is a REIT that was incorporated under the General Corporation Laws of the State of Maryland on February 14, 2003. We focus on acquiring, owning, and managing primarily office and industrial properties. On a selective basis, we may make long term industrial and commercial mortgage loans; however we do not have any mortgage loans currently outstanding. Our properties are geographically diversified and our tenants cover a broad cross section of business sectors and range in size from small to very large private and public companies. We actively communicate with buyout funds, real estate brokers and other third parties to locate properties for potential acquisition or to provide mortgage financing in an effort to build our portfolio. We target secondary growth markets that possess favorable economic growth trends, diversified industries, and growing population and employment. 

We have historically entered into, and intend in the future to enter into, purchase agreements for real estate having net leases with terms of approximately 7 to 15 years and built in rental rate increases. Under a net lease, the tenant is required to pay all operating, maintenance, repair and insurance costs and real estate taxes with respect to the leased property. 

As of February 17, 2016: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; we owned 99 properties totaling 11.0 million square feet in 24 states; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our occupancy rate was 97.4%; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the weighted average remaining term of our mortgage debt was 5.6 years and the weighted average interest rate was 5.02%; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the weighted average remaining lease term of the portfolio was 8.4 years; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; all tenant lease expirations for 2016 were successfully extended. We conduct substantially all of our activities, including the ownership of all of our properties, through Gladstone Commercial Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, which we refer to as our Operating Partnership. We control our Operating Partnership through our ownership of GCLP Business Trust II, a Massachusetts business trust, which is the general partner of our Operating Partnership, and of GCLP Business Trust I, a Massachusetts business trust, which currently holds all of the limited partnership units of our Operating Partnership. Our Operating Partnership may issue limited partnership units from time to time in exchange for industrial and commercial real property; however, no units have been issued since inception. Limited partners who hold limited partnership units in our Operating Partnership will generally be entitled to redeem these units for cash or, at our election, shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis. 

Our Operating Partnership is the sole member of Gladstone Commercial Lending, LLC, which we refer to as Gladstone Commercial Lending. Gladstone Commercial Lending is a Delaware limited liability company that was formed to hold any real estate mortgage loans. 

Our business is managed by our external adviser, Gladstone Management Corporation, or our Adviser. Gladstone Administration, LLC, or our Administrator, provides administrative services to us. Both our Advisor and our Administrator are affiliates of ours and each other. 

Our Investment Objectives and Our Strategy 

Our principal investment objectives are to generate income from rental properties and, to a much lesser extent, mortgage loans, which we use to fund our continuing operations and to pay monthly cash 

&#160;

distributions to our stockholders. Our strategy is to invest in and own a diversified portfolio of leased properties (primarily office and industrial) that we believe will produce stable cash flow and increase in value. We may sell some of our real estate assets when our Adviser determines that doing so would be advantageous to us and our stockholders. We also expect to occasionally make mortgage loans secured by income-producing commercial, industrial or retail real estate, which loans may have some form of equity participation. We do not have any mortgage loans currently outstanding. 

In addition to cash on hand and cash from operations, we use funds from various other sources to finance our acquisitions and operations, including equity, our line of credit, mortgage financing and other sources that may become available from time to time. We believe that moderate leverage is prudent and we aspire to become an investment grade borrower over time. We intend to use non-recourse mortgage financing that will allow us to limit our loss exposure on any property to the amount of equity invested in such property. The market for long-term mortgages continues to be strong and the environment is very competitive. The collateralized mortgage backed securities, or CMBS, market remains active but its underwriting terms have become slightly more conservative and restrictive than they were in the first half of 2015. For instance, interest only amortization periods have become more difficult to secure. Lenders&#146; tighter credit metrics have had very little impact on our access to credit because we have been leveraging assets at loan to values of 60% or less rather than seeking to maximize leverage. The sell-off in junk bonds has caused CMBS spreads to widen significantly and the CMBS market remains volatile. Consequently, we continue to look to regional banks, insurance companies and other non-bank lenders, in addition to the CMBS market, to issue mortgages to finance our real estate activities. 

In addition to leverage, we were active in the equity markets during 2015 by issuing shares of common stock under our at-the-market program, or ATM Program, pursuant to our open market sale agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald &#38; Co., or Cantor Fitzgerald. 

Investment Policies 

Types of Investments 

Overview 

We intend to earn substantially all of our revenues from the ownership of income-producing real property or, to a much lesser extent, mortgage loans secured by real property. We expect that a majority of our investments will continue to be structured as net leases, but if a net lease would have an adverse impact on a potential tenant, or we assume a lease with a different existing structure in place, we may structure our investment as either a gross or modified gross lease, or as a mortgage loan. Investments are not restricted to geographical areas, but we expect that most of our investments in real estate will continue to be made within the continental United States. Some of our investments may also be made through joint ventures that would permit us to own interests in large properties without restricting the diversity of our portfolio. 

We anticipate that we will make substantially all of our investments through our Operating Partnership. Our Operating Partnership may acquire interests in real property or mortgage loans in exchange for the issuance of limited partnership units, for cash or through a combination of both. Units issued by our Operating Partnership generally will be redeemable for cash or, at our election, shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis. However, we may in the future also conduct some of our business and hold some of our interests in real properties or mortgage loans through one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries that are not owned, directly or indirectly, through our Operating Partnership. We have not issued any limited partnership units to date. 

&#160;

Property Acquisitions and Net Leasing 

To date, we have purchased a majority of our properties from owners that have leased their properties to non-affiliated tenants, and while we have engaged in some transactions with tenants who have consummated sale-leaseback transactions, these transactions do not comprise the dominant portion of our portfolio. We expect that some of our sale-leaseback transactions will be in conjunction with acquisitions, recapitalizations or other corporate transactions affecting our tenants. In these transactions, we may act as one of several sources of financing by purchasing one or more properties from the tenant and by leasing it on a net basis to the tenant or its successor in interest. For a discussion of the risks associated with leasing property to leveraged tenants, see &#147; Risk Factors &#151; Highly leveraged tenants and borrowers may be unable to pay rent or make mortgage payments, which could adversely affect our cash available to make distributions to our stockholders .&#148; 

Our portfolio consists primarily of single-tenant commercial and industrial real property; while we will continue to acquire select multi-tenant commercial and industrial properties, as well as retail and medical properties our primary focus is single-tenant industrial and office properties. Generally, we lease properties to tenants that our Adviser deems creditworthy under leases that will be full recourse obligations of our tenants or their affiliates. In most cases, our leases will be &#147;net leases&#148; that require the tenant to pay all the operating costs, costs of maintenance and repair, insurance and real estate taxes on the property. We seek to obtain lease terms of approximately 7 to 15 years with built-in rental increases. 

We have formed relationships with nationally recognized strategic partners to assist us with the management of our properties in each of our markets. These relationships provide local expertise to ensure that our properties are properly maintained and that our tenants have local points of contact to address property issues. This strategy improves our operating efficiencies, increases local market intelligence for the Adviser, and generally does not increase our costs as the local property managers are reimbursed by the tenants in accordance with the lease agreements. 

Investments in Mortgage Loans 

Although we expect to make investments in mortgage loans sparingly, we may elect to structure our investment in a particular property as a mortgage loan secured by the property. We anticipate that most of our lending transactions would be loans secured by industrial or commercial property or issued in connection with a build-to-suit transaction. Our Adviser will attempt to structure mortgage loans in a manner that would provide us with current income substantially similar to that which we could expect to receive had the investment been structured as a net lease transaction. 

To the extent that we invest in mortgage loans, we will generally originate those loans. However, we may also purchase mortgage loans from banks, CMBS pools or other lenders provided that such transactions are otherwise consistent with our investment objectives. Our Adviser will service the mortgage loans in our portfolio by monitoring the collection of monthly principal and interest payments on our behalf. We do not have any mortgage loans currently outstanding. 

Underwriting Criteria, Due Diligence Process and Negotiating Lease Provisions 

We consider underwriting of the real estate and the tenant for the property (or the borrower in the case of a mortgage loan) to be the two most important aspects of evaluating a prospective investment. In analyzing potential acquisitions of properties and leases, our Adviser reviews all aspects of the potential transaction, including tenant and real estate fundamentals, to determine whether potential acquisitions and leases can be structured to satisfy our acquisition criteria. The criteria listed below provide general guideposts that our Adviser may consider when underwriting leases and mortgage loans: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Credit Evaluation . Our Adviser evaluates each potential tenant or borrower for its creditworthiness, considering factors such as its rating by a national credit rating agency, if any, management experience, industry position and fundamentals, operating history and capital structure. Currently, 31% of our tenants are rated by a national credit rating agency. A prospective tenant or borrower that is deemed creditworthy does not necessarily mean that we will consider its property to be &#147;investment grade.&#148; Our Adviser seeks tenants and borrowers that 

&#160;

&#160; range from small businesses, many of which do not have publicly rated debt, to large public companies. Our Adviser&#146;s investment professionals have substantial experience in locating and underwriting these types of companies. By leasing properties to these tenants, we believe that we will generally be able to charge rent that is higher than the rent charged to tenants with unleveraged balance sheets and recognized credit, thereby enhancing current return from these properties as compared with properties leased to companies whose credit potential has already been recognized by the market. Furthermore, if a tenant&#146;s credit improves, the value of our lease or investment will likely increase (if all other factors affecting value remain unchanged). In evaluating a possible investment, we believe that the creditworthiness of a prospective tenant is normally a more significant factor than the unleased value of the property itself. While our Adviser selects tenants it believes to be creditworthy, tenants are not required to meet any minimum rating established by an independent credit rating agency. Our Adviser&#146;s standards for determining whether a particular tenant is creditworthy vary in accordance with a variety of factors relating to specific prospective tenants. The creditworthiness of a tenant or borrower is determined on a tenant-by-tenant and case-by-case basis. Therefore, general standards for creditworthiness cannot be applied. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Leases with Increasing Rent . Our Adviser seeks to include a clause in each lease that provides for annual rent escalations over the term of the lease. These increases will generally be fixed; however certain of our leases are tied to increases in indices, such as the consumer price index. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Diversification . Our Adviser attempts to diversify our portfolio to avoid dependence on any one particular tenant, facility type, geographic location or tenant industry. By diversifying our portfolio, our Adviser intends to reduce the adverse effect of a single under-performing investment or a downturn in any particular industry or geographic region. Please see Item 2 of this Form 10-K for a summary of our portfolio by industry and geographic location. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Property Valuation . The business prospects and the financial strength of the tenant are important aspects of the evaluation of any sale and leaseback of property, or acquisition of property subject to a net lease, particularly a property that is specifically suited to the needs of the tenant. We generally require quarterly unaudited and annual audited financial statements of the tenant in order to continuously monitor the financial performance of the tenant. Our Adviser evaluates the financial capability of the tenant and its ability to perform per the terms of the lease, including obtaining certificates of insurance and verifying payment of real estate taxes on an annual basis. Our Adviser may also examine the available operating results of prospective investment properties to determine whether or not projected rental levels are likely to be met. As further described below, our Advisor also evaluates the physical characteristics of a prospective property investment and comparable properties as well as the geographic location of the property in the particular market to ensure that the characteristics are favorable for re-leasing the property at approximately the same or higher rental rate should that necessity arise. Our Adviser then computes the value of the property based on historical and projected operating results. In addition, each property that we propose to purchase is appraised by an independent appraiser. These appraisals may take into consideration, among other things, the terms and conditions of the particular lease transaction and the conditions of the credit markets at the time the purchase is negotiated. We generally limit the purchase price of each acquisition to less than 5% of our consolidated total assets. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Properties Important to Tenant Operations . Our Adviser generally seeks to acquire investment properties that are essential or important to the ongoing operations of the prospective tenant. We believe that these investment properties provide better protection in the event a tenant files bankruptcy, as leases on properties essential or important to the operations of a bankrupt tenant are typically less likely to be rejected in bankruptcy or otherwise terminated. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Lease Provisions that Enhance and Protect Value . When appropriate, our Adviser attempts to include provisions in our leases that require our consent to specified tenant activity or require the tenant to satisfy specific operating tests. These provisions may include operational or financial 

&#160;

&#160; covenants of the tenant, as well as indemnification of us by the tenant against environmental and other contingent liabilities. We believe that these provisions serve to protect our investments from changes in the operating and financial characteristics of a tenant that may impact its ability to satisfy its obligations to us or that could reduce the value of our properties. Our Adviser generally also seeks covenants requiring tenants to receive our consent prior to any change in control of the tenant. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Credit Enhancement. Our Adviser may also seek to enhance the likelihood of a tenant&#146;s lease obligations being satisfied through a cross-default with other tenant obligations, a letter of credit or a guaranty of lease obligations from each tenant&#146;s corporate parent. We believe that this type of credit enhancement, if obtained, provides us with additional financial security. Underwriting of the Real Estate and Due Diligence Process 

In addition to underwriting the tenant or borrower, our Adviser also underwrites the real estate to be acquired or secured by one of our mortgages. On our behalf, our Adviser performs a due diligence review with respect to each property, such as evaluating the physical condition of a property, zoning and site requirements to ensure the property is in compliance with all zoning regulations as well as an environmental site assessment, in an attempt to determine potential environmental liabilities associated with a property prior to its acquisition, although there can be no assurance that hazardous substances or wastes (as defined by present or future federal or state laws or regulations) will not be discovered on the property after we acquire it. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and private litigation over environmental matters. See &#147; Risk Factors &#150; We could be exposed to liability and remedial costs related to environmental matters.&#148; 

Our Adviser also reviews the structural soundness of the improvements on the property and may engage a structural engineer to review multiple aspects of the structures to determine the longevity of each building on the property. This review normally also includes the components of each building, such as the roof, the structure and configuration, the electrical wiring, the heating and air-conditioning system, the plumbing, parking lot and various other aspects such as compliance with state and federal building codes. 

Our Adviser also physically inspects the real estate and surrounding real estate as part of determining its value. All of our Adviser&#146;s due diligence is aimed at arriving at a valuation of the real estate under the assumption that it would not be rented to the existing tenant. As part of this process, our Adviser may consider one or more of the following items: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The comparable value of similar real estate in the same general area of the prospective property. In this regard, comparable property is difficult to define because each piece of real estate has its own distinct characteristics. But to the extent possible, comparable property in the area that has sold or is for sale will be used to determine if the price to be paid for the property is reasonable. The question of comparable properties&#146; sale prices is particularly relevant if a property might be sold by us at a later date. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; An assessment of the relative flexibility of the building configuration and its ability to be re-leased to other users in a single or multiple tenant arrangement. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The comparable real estate rental rates for similar properties in the same area of the prospective property. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Alternative property uses that may offer higher value. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The cost of replacing the property at current construction prices if it were to be sold. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The assessed value as determined by the local real estate taxing authority. In addition, our Adviser supplements its valuation with an independent real estate appraisal in connection with each investment that we consider. When appropriate, our Adviser may engage experts to undertake some or all of the due diligence efforts described above. 

&#160;

Use of Leverage 

In addition to cash on hand and cash from operations, we use funds from various other sources to finance our acquisitions and operations, including equity, our line of credit, mortgage financing and other sources that may become available from time to time. We believe that moderate leverage is prudent and we aspire to achieve an investment grade rating over time. 

Currently, the majority of our mortgage borrowings are structured as non-recourse to us, with limited exceptions that would trigger recourse to us only upon the occurrence of certain fraud, misconduct, environmental or bankruptcy events. The use of non-recourse financing allows us to limit our exposure to the amount of equity invested in the properties pledged as collateral for our borrowings. Non-recourse financing generally restricts a lender&#146;s claim on the assets of the borrower, and as a result, the lender generally may look only to the property securing the debt for its satisfaction. We believe that this financing strategy, to the extent available, protects our other assets. However, we can provide no assurance that non-recourse financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and consequently, there may be circumstances where lenders have recourse to our other assets. To a much lesser extent, we use recourse financing. Of the $460.8 million in long-term mortgages outstanding as of December 31, 2015, only $2.9 million is recourse to the Company. 

In August 2013, we procured a senior unsecured revolving credit facility, or the Line of Credit, with KeyBank National Association (serving as a revolving lender, a letter of credit issuer and an administrative agent). In October 2015, we expanded our Line of Credit to $85.0 million and extended the maturity date 1-year through August 2018, with a 1-year extension option through August 2019. We also added a $25.0 million 5-year term loan facility, which matures in October 2020. The interest rate on the revolving line of credit was also reduced by 25 basis points at each of the leverage tiers and the total maximum commitment under the two facilities was increased from $100.0 million to $150.0 million. We also added 3 new lenders to the bank syndicate, which is now comprised of KeyBank, Comerica Banks, Fifth Third Bank, US Bank and Huntington Bank. 

Conflict of Interest Policy 

We have adopted policies to reduce potential conflicts of interest. In addition, our directors are subject to certain provisions of Maryland law that are designed to minimize conflicts. However, we cannot assure you that these policies or provisions of law will reduce or eliminate the influence of these conflicts. 

Under our current conflict of interest policy, without the approval of a majority of our independent directors, we will not: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; acquire from or sell any assets or other property to any of our officers, directors or our Adviser&#146;s employees, or any entity in which any of our officers, directors or Adviser&#146;s employees has an interest of more than 5%; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; borrow from any of our directors, officers or our Adviser&#146;s employees, or any entity, in which any of our officers, directors or our Adviser&#146;s employees has an interest of more than 5%; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; engage in any other transaction with any of our directors, officers or our Adviser&#146;s employees, or any entity in which any of our directors, officers or our Adviser&#146;s employees has an interest of more than 5% (except that our Adviser may lease office space in a building that we own, provided that the rental rate under the lease is determined by our independent directors to be at a fair market rate). &#160;

Our policy also prohibits us from purchasing any real property owned by or co-investing with our Adviser, any of its affiliates or any business in which our Adviser or any of its subsidiaries have invested, except that we may lease property to existing and prospective portfolio companies of current or future affiliates, such as Gladstone Capital Corporation, Gladstone Land Corporation or Gladstone Investment Corporation and other entities advised by our Adviser, so long as that entity does not control the portfolio company and the transaction is approved by both companies&#146; board of directors. If we decide to change this policy on co-investments with our Adviser or its affiliates, we will seek our stockholders&#146; approval. 

Future Revisions in Policies and Strategies 

Our independent directors periodically review our investment policies to evaluate whether they are in the best interests of us and our stockholders. Our investment procedures, objectives and policies may vary as new investment techniques are developed or as regulatory requirements change, and except as otherwise provided in our charter or bylaws, may be altered by a majority of our directors (including a majority of our independent directors) without the approval of our stockholders, to the extent that our Board of Directors determines that such modification is in the best interest of our stockholders. Among other factors, developments in the market which affect the policies and strategies described in this report or which change our assessment of the market may cause our Board of Directors to revise our investment policies and strategies. 

Code of Ethics 

We have adopted a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to all personnel of our Adviser that complies with the guidelines set forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. This code establishes procedures for personal investments, restricts certain transactions by such personnel and requires the reporting of certain transactions and holdings by such personnel. A copy of this code is available for review, free of charge, at our website at www.GladstoneCommercial.com. We intend to provide any required disclosure of any amendments to or waivers of the provisions of this code by posting information regarding any such amendment or waiver to our website within four days of its effectiveness. 

Our Adviser and Administrator 

Our business is managed by our Adviser. The officers, directors and employees of our Adviser have significant experience in making investments in and lending to businesses of all sizes, and investing in real estate and making mortgage loans. We have entered into an investment advisory agreement with our Adviser, or the Advisory Agreement, under which our Adviser is responsible for managing our assets and liabilities, for operating our business on a day-to-day basis and for identifying, evaluating, negotiating and consummating investment transactions consistent with our investment policies as determined by our Board of Directors from time to time. Gladstone Administration, LLC, or our Administrator, employs our chief financial officer, treasurer, chief compliance officer, general counsel and secretary (who also serves as our Administrator&#146;s president) and their respective staffs and provides administrative services for us under the Administration Agreement. 

David Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer, is also the chairman, chief executive officer and the controlling stockholder of our Adviser and our Administrator. Terry Lee Brubaker, our vice chairman and chief operating officer and a member of our Board of Directors, also serves in the same capacities for our Adviser and our Administrator. Robert Cutlip, our president, is also an executive managing director of our Adviser. 

Our Adviser maintains our investment committee that approves each of our investments. This investment committee is currently comprised of Messrs. Gladstone, Cutlip and Brubaker. We believe that the review process of our investment committee gives us a unique competitive advantage over other REITs because of the substantial experience that its members possess and their unique perspective in evaluating the blend of corporate credit, real estate and lease terms that collectively provide an acceptable risk for our investments. 

&#160;

Our Adviser&#146;s board of directors has empowered our investment committee to authorize and approve our investments, subject to the terms of the Advisory Agreement. Before we acquire any property, the transaction is reviewed by our investment committee to ensure that, in its view, the proposed transaction satisfies our investment criteria and is within our investment policies. Approval by our investment committee is generally the final step in the property acquisition approval process, although the separate approval of our Board of Directors is required in certain circumstances described below. For further detail on this process, please see &#147; Investment Policies&#151;Underwriting Criteria, Due Diligence Process and Negotiating Lease Provisions .&#148; 

Our Adviser and Administrator are headquartered in McLean, Virginia, a suburb of Washington, D.C., and our Adviser also has offices in several other states. 

Advisory and Administration Agreements 

Many of the services performed by our Adviser and Administrator in managing our day-to-day activities are summarized below. This summary is provided to illustrate the material functions which our Adviser and Administrator perform for us pursuant to the terms of the Advisory and Administration Agreements, respectively. 

Advisory Agreement 

Under the terms of the Advisory Agreement, we are responsible for all expenses incurred for our direct benefit. Examples of these expenses include legal, accounting, interest, directors&#146; and officers&#146; insurance, stock transfer services, stockholder-related fees, consulting and related fees. In addition, we are also responsible for all fees charged by third parties that are directly related to our business, which include real estate brokerage fees, mortgage placement fees, lease-up fees and transaction structuring fees (although we may be able to pass some or all of such fees on to our tenants and borrowers). 

On July 24, 2015, we entered into an amended and restated advisory agreement, or the Amended Advisory Agreement, with the Adviser, effective July 1, 2015. Our entrance into the amended agreement was approved unanimously by our Board of Directors, including separate and unanimous approval by the independent directors on our Board of Directors. 

The calculation of the annual base management fee was revised to equal 1.5% of our total stockholders&#146; equity, (before giving effect to the base management and incentive fee), adjusted to exclude the effect of any unrealized gains or losses that do not affect realized net income (including impairment charges) and adjusted for any one-time events and certain non-cash items (only after approval of our Compensation Committee), or adjusted total stockholders&#146; equity. Our Adviser does not charge acquisition or disposition fees when we acquire or dispose of properties as is common in other externally managed REITs; however, our Adviser may earn fee income from our borrowers, tenants or other sources. 

Under the Amended Advisory Agreement, the calculation of the incentive fee was revised to reward the Adviser in circumstances where our quarterly Core FFO (defined at the end of this paragraph), before giving effect to any incentive fee, or pre-incentive fee Core FFO, exceeds 2.0% quarterly, or 8.0% annualized, of adjusted total stockholders&#146; equity (after giving effect to the base management fee but before giving effect to the incentive fee). We refer to this as the new hurdle rate. The Adviser will receive 15.0% of the amount of our pre-incentive fee Core FFO that exceeds the new hurdle rate. However, in no event shall the incentive fee for a particular quarter exceed by 15.0% (the cap) the average quarterly incentive fee paid by us for the previous four quarters (excluding quarters for which no incentive fee was paid). Core FFO is defined as GAAP net income (loss) available to common stockholders, excluding the incentive fee, depreciation and amortization, any realized and unrealized gains, losses or other non-cash items recorded in net income (loss) available to common stockholders for the period, and one-time events pursuant to changes in GAAP. 

&#160;

The incentive fee under the prior Advisory Agreement rewarded the Adviser in circumstances where our quarterly FFO, before giving effect to any incentive fee, or pre-incentive fee FFO, exceeded 1.75%, or 7.0% annualized, or the hurdle rate, of common stockholders&#146; equity. Funds from operations, or FFO, included any realized capital gains and capital losses, less any distributions paid on preferred stock and Senior Common Stock, but FFO did not include any unrealized capital gains or losses (including impairment charges). The Adviser received 100.0% of the amount of the pre-incentive fee FFO that exceeded the hurdle rate, but was less than 2.1875% of our common stockholders&#146; equity. The Adviser also received an incentive fee of 20.0% of the amount of our pre-incentive fee FFO that exceeded 2.1875% of common stockholders&#146; equity. 

Administration Agreement 

Under the terms of the Administration Agreement, we pay separately for our allocable portion of our Administrator&#146;s overhead expenses in performing its obligations to us including, but not limited to, rent and our allocable portion of the salaries and benefits expenses of our Administrator&#146;s employees, including, but not limited to, our chief financial officer, treasurer, chief compliance officer, general counsel and secretary (who also serves as our Administrator&#146;s president), and their respective staffs. Prior to July 1, 2014, our allocable portion was generally derived by multiplying that portion of the Administrator&#146;s expenses allocable to all funds managed by the Adviser by the percentage of our total assets at the beginning of each quarter in comparison to the total assets of all funds managed by the Adviser. As approved by our Board of Directors, effective July 1, 2014, our allocable portion of the Administrator&#146;s expenses are generally derived by multiplying our Administrator&#146;s total expenses by the approximate percentage of time the Administrator&#146;s employees perform services for us in relation to their time spent performing services for all companies serviced by our Administrator under contractual agreements. We believe that the new methodology of allocating the Administrator&#146;s total expenses by approximate percentage of time services were performed among all companies serviced by our Administrator more closely approximates fees paid to actual services performed.

Adviser Duties and Authority under the Advisory Agreement 

Under the terms of the Advisory Agreement, our Adviser is required to use its best efforts to present to us investment opportunities consistent with our investment policies and objectives as adopted by our Board of Directors. In performing its duties, our Adviser, either directly or indirectly by engaging an affiliate: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; finds, evaluates and enters into contracts to purchase real estate and make mortgage loans on our behalf in compliance with our investment procedures, objectives and policies, subject to approval of our Board of Directors, where required; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; provides advice to us and acts on our behalf with respect to the negotiation, acquisition, financing, refinancing, holding, leasing and disposition of real estate investments; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; takes the actions and obtains the services necessary to effect the negotiation, acquisition, financing, refinancing, holding, leasing and disposition of real estate investments; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; provides day-to-day management of our business activities and other administrative services for us as requested by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors has authorized our Adviser to make investments in any property on our behalf without the prior approval of our Board of Directors if the following conditions are satisfied: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our Adviser has obtained an independent appraisal for the property indicating that the total cost of the property does not exceed its appraised value; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our Adviser has concluded that the property, in conjunction with our other investments and proposed investments, is reasonably expected to fulfill our investment objectives and policies as established by our Board of Directors then in effect. &#160;

The actual terms and conditions of transactions involving investments in properties and mortgage loans are determined at the sole discretion of our Adviser, subject at all times to compliance with the foregoing requirements. Some types of transactions, however, require the prior approval of our Board of Directors, including a majority of our independent directors, including the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; loans not secured or otherwise supported by real property; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; any acquisition or mortgage loan which at the time of investment would have a cost exceeding 20% of our total assets; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; transactions that involve conflicts of interest with our Adviser or other affiliates (other than reimbursement of expenses in accordance with the Advisory Agreement); and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the lease of assets to our Adviser, its affiliates or any of our officers or directors. Our Adviser and Administrator also engage in other business ventures and, as a result, their resources are not dedicated exclusively to our business. For example, our Adviser and Administrator also serve as the external adviser or administrator, respectively, to Gladstone Capital Corporation and Gladstone Investment Corporation, both publicly traded business development companies affiliated with us, and Gladstone Land Corporation, a publicly traded agricultural real estate investment trust that is also our affiliate. However, under the Amended Advisory Agreement, our Adviser is required to devote sufficient resources to the administration of our affairs to discharge its obligations under the agreement. The Amended Advisory Agreement is not assignable or transferable by either us or our Adviser without the consent of the other party, except that our Adviser may assign the Amended Advisory Agreement to an affiliate for whom our Adviser agrees to guarantee its obligations to us. 

Gladstone Securities 

Gladstone Securities, LLC, or Gladstone Securities, is a privately held broker dealer registered with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and insured by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. Gladstone Securities is an affiliate of ours, as its parent company is controlled by Mr. David Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Gladstone also serves on the board of managers of Gladstone Securities. 

Dealer Manager Agreement 

In connection with the offering of our convertible senior common stock, or Senior Common Stock, we entered into a Dealer Manager Agreement, dated March 25, 2011, or the Dealer Manager Agreement, with Gladstone Securities, or the Dealer Manager, pursuant to which the Dealer Manager agreed to act as our exclusive dealer manager in connection with the offering. The Dealer Manager Agreement terminated according to its terms on March 28, 2015. Pursuant to the terms of the Dealer Manager Agreement, the Dealer Manager was entitled to receive a sales commission in the amount of 7.0% of the gross proceeds of the shares of Senior Common Stock sold, plus a dealer manager fee in the amount of 3.0% of the gross proceeds of the shares of Senior Common Stock sold. In addition, we agreed to indemnify the Dealer Manager against various liabilities, including certain liabilities arising under the federal securities laws. 

Mortgage Financing Arrangement Agreement 

We also entered into an agreement with Gladstone Securities, effective June 18, 2013, for it to act as our non-exclusive agent to assist us with arranging mortgage financing for properties we own. In connection with this engagement, Gladstone Securities may from time to time solicit the interest of various commercial real estate lenders or recommend to us third party lenders offering credit products or packages that are responsive to our needs. We pay Gladstone Securities a financing fee in connection with the services it 

&#160;

provides to us for securing mortgage financing on any of our properties. The amount of these financing fees, which are payable upon closing of the financing, will be based on a percentage of the amount of the mortgage, generally ranging from 0.15% to a maximum of 1.0% of the mortgage obtained. The amount of the financing fees may be reduced or eliminated, as determined by us and Gladstone Securities, after taking into consideration various factors, including, but not limited to, the involvement of any third party brokers and market conditions. The agreement is scheduled to terminate on August 31, 2016, unless renewed and approved by our Board of Directors or earlier terminated. 

Employees 

We do not currently have any employees and do not expect to have any employees in the foreseeable future. Currently, services necessary for our business are provided by individuals who are employees of our Adviser and our Administrator pursuant to the terms of the Amended Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement, respectively. Each of our executive officers is an employee or officer, or both, of our Adviser or our Administrator. We expect that a total of 15 to 20 full time employees of our Adviser and our Administrator will spend substantial time on our matters during calendar year 2016. To the extent that we acquire more investments, we anticipate that the number of employees of our Adviser and our Administrator who devote time to our matters will increase. 

As of December 31, 2015, our Adviser and Administrator collectively had 66 full-time employees. A breakdown of these employees is summarized by functional area in the table below: 

&#160;

Number of Individuals 

&#160; Functional Area 

&#160; Executive Management 38

&#160; Investment Management, Portfolio Management and Due Diligence 17

&#160; Administration, Accounting, Compliance, Human Resources, Legal and Treasury Competition 

We compete with a number of other real estate companies and traditional mortgage lenders, many of whom have greater marketing and financial resources than we do. Principal factors of competition in our primary business of investing in and owning leased industrial, commercial and retail real property are the quality of properties, leasing terms, attractiveness and convenience of location. Additionally, our ability to compete depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, investment alternatives, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and borrowers, availability and cost of capital, taxes and governmental regulations. 

Available Information 

Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments, if any, to those reports filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge through our website at www.GladstoneCommercial.com. A request for any of these reports may also be submitted to us by sending a written request addressed to Investor Relations, Gladstone Commercial Corporation, 1521 Westbranch Drive, Suite 100, McLean, VA 22102, or by calling our toll-free investor relations line at 1-866-366-5745. The public may read and copy materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

&#160;

