 Item 1. Business Overview 

Business description 

Douglas Emmett, Inc. is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed REIT. We are one of the largest owners and operators of high-quality office and multifamily properties located in premier submarkets in California and Hawaii. We focus on owning, acquiring, developing and managing a substantial share of top-tier office properties and premier multifamily communities in neighborhoods that possess significant supply constraints, high-end executive housing and key lifestyle amenities. We intend to increase our market share in our existing submarkets of Los Angeles County and Honolulu, and may selectively enter into other submarkets with similar characteristics where we believe we can gain significant market share. 

&#160; 

Through our interest in our Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, including our investments in our Funds, we own or partially own, acquire, develop and manage real estate, consisting primarily of office and multifamily properties. At December 31, 2015 , we owned a consolidated portfolio of fifty-four &#32;office properties (including ancillary retail space) totaling approximately 13.7 million &#32;rentable square feet of space and 10 &#32;multifamily properties containing 3,336 &#32;apartment units, as well as the fee interests in two &#32;parcels of land subject to ground leases. Alongside our consolidated portfolio, we also manage and own equity interests in our Funds which, at December 31, 2015 , owned eight &#32;additional office properties totaling approximately 1.8 million &#32;square feet of space. We manage these eight &#32;properties alongside our consolidated portfolio, and we therefore present our office portfolio statistics on a total portfolio basis, with a combined sixty-two &#32;Class A office properties totaling approximately 15.5 million &#32;square feet. Our properties are located in the Beverly Hills, Brentwood, Burbank, Century City, Olympic Corridor, Santa Monica, Sherman Oaks/Encino, Warner Center/Woodland Hills and Westwood submarkets of Los Angeles County, California, and in Honolulu, Hawaii. For more information about our properties, see Item 2 &#8220;Properties&#8221; of this Report. 

&#160; 

We employ a focused business strategy that we have developed and implemented over the last four decades: 

&#8226; 

Concentration of High Quality Office and Multifamily Assets in Premier Submarkets. &#32;&#32;First we select submarkets that are supply constrained, with high barriers to entry, key lifestyle amenities, proximity to high-end executive housing and a strong, diverse economic base. Virtually no entitled Class A office space is currently under construction in any of our targeted submarkets. Our submarkets are dominated by small, affluent tenants, whose rent is very small relative to their revenues and often not the paramount factor in their leasing decisions. In addition, our diverse base of office tenants operate in a variety of businesses, including among others legal, financial services, entertainment, real estate, health services, accounting and consulting, retail, insurance and technology, reducing our dependence on any one industry. In 2013 , 2014 &#32;and 2015 , no &#32;tenant accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. 

&#8226; 

Disciplined Strategy of Acquiring Substantial Market Share. &#32;&#32;Once we select a submarket, we follow a disciplined strategy of gaining substantial market share to provide us with extensive local transactional market information, pricing power in lease and vendor negotiations and an enhanced ability to identify and negotiate investment opportunities. As a result, we average approximately a 24% &#32;share of the Class A office space in our submarkets. See the first table in Item 2 of this Report that sets forth the submarket data with respect to our total office portfolio. 

&#8226; 

Proactive Asset and Property Management. &#32;&#32;Our fully integrated focused operating platform provides the unsurpassed tenant service demanded in our submarkets, with in-house leasing, proactive asset and property management and internal design and construction services. We believe this provides a key competitive advantage in managing our office portfolio, which at December 31, 2015 &#32;included 2,674 &#32;office leases with a median size of approximately 2,500 &#32;square feet, and our multifamily portfolio, which at December 31, 2015 &#32;included 3,336 &#32;apartment units. Our property management group oversees day-to-day property management of both our office and multifamily portfolios, allowing us to benefit from the operational efficiencies permitted by our submarket concentration. Our in-house leasing agents and legal specialists allow us to manage and lease a large property portfolio with a diverse group of smaller tenants, closing an average of approximately three office leases each business day. Finally, our in-house construction company allows us to compress the time required for building out many smaller spaces, so that we can reduce the resulting structural vacancy. 

Corporate Structure 

Douglas Emmett, Inc. was formed as a Maryland corporation on June 28, 2005 to continue and expand the operations of Douglas Emmett Realty Advisors and its 9 institutional funds. All of our assets are directly or indirectly held by our Operating Partnership, which was formed as a Delaware limited partnership on July 25, 2005. As the sole stockholder of the general partner of our Operating Partnership, under its partnership agreement we generally have the exclusive power to manage and conduct its business, subject to certain limited approval and voting rights of the other limited partners. Our interest in our Operating Partnership entitles us to share in the profits and losses and cash distributions in proportion to our percentage ownership. 

Funds 

We manage and own equity interests in two Funds, Fund X, and Partnership X, through which we and institutional investors own 8 &#32;office properties totaling 1.8 million &#32;square feet in our core markets. Our ownership interest entitles us to a pro rata share of any distributions based on our ownership (a weighted average of 60.0% &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;based on square footage), additional distributions based on the total invested capital and a carried interest if the investors&#8217; distributions exceed a hurdle rate. We also receive fees and reimbursement of expenses for managing our Funds&#8217; properties. 

While the financial data in this Report does not include our Funds on a consolidated basis, much of the property level data in this Report includes the properties owned by our Funds (which we refer to as our total portfolio), as we believe this presentation assists in understanding our business. For further information regarding our Funds, see Note 5 &#32;to our consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Report. 

Taxation 

We believe that we qualify, and we intend to continue to qualify, for taxation as a REIT under the Code, although we cannot assure that this has happened or will happen. For more information about the risks we face regarding taxation as a REIT, see Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this Report. The following summary is qualified in its entirety by the applicable Code provisions and related rules, and administrative and judicial interpretations. 

If we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will generally not be required to pay federal corporate income taxes on the portion of our net income that is currently distributed to stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the &#8220;double taxation&#8221; (i.e., at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from investment in a corporation. However, we will be required to pay federal income tax under certain circumstances. 

The Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association (i) which is managed by one or more trustees or directors; (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares, or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) which would be taxable, but for Sections 856 through 860 of the Code, as a domestic corporation; (iv) which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code; (v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons; (vi) of which, during the last half of each taxable year, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock is owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals; and (vii) which meets certain other tests, described below, regarding the amount of its distributions and the nature of its income and assets. The Code provides that conditions (i) to (iv), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and that condition (v) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. 

There are presently two gross income requirements: 

i. 

at least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from &#8220;prohibited transactions&#8221; as defined below) for each taxable year must be derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property or from certain types of temporary investment income, and 

ii. 

at least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from &#8220;prohibited transactions&#8221; and qualifying hedges) for each taxable year must be derived from income that qualifies under the 75% test and from other dividends, interest and gain from the sale or other disposition of stock or securities. A &#8220;prohibited transaction&#8221; is a sale or other disposition of property (other than foreclosure property) held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. 

At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy four tests relating to the nature of our assets: 

&#160; 

i. 

at least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets including shares of stock of other REITs, certain other stock or debt instruments purchased with the proceeds of a stock offering or long-term public debt offering by us (but only for the one-year period after such offering), cash, cash items and government securities, 

ii. 

not more than 25% of our total assets may be represented by securities other than those in the 75% asset class, 

iii. 

of the investments included in the 25% asset class, the value of any one issuer&#8217;s securities owned by us may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets and we may not own more than 10% of the vote or value of the securities of a non-REIT corporation, other than certain debt securities and interests in TRS or QRS, each as defined below, and 

iv. 

not more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more TRS. 

We own interests in various partnerships and limited liability companies. In the case of a REIT that is a partner in a partnership or a member of a limited liability company that is treated as a partnership under the Code, Treasury Regulations provide that for purposes of the REIT income and asset tests, the REIT will be deemed to own its proportionate share of the assets of the partnership or limited liability company (determined in accordance with its capital interest in the entity), subject to special rules related to the 10% asset test, and will be deemed to be entitled to the income of the partnership or limited liability company attributable to such share. The ownership of an interest in a partnership or limited liability company by a REIT may involve special tax risks, including the challenge by the IRS of the allocations of income and expense items of the partnership or limited liability company, which would affect the computation of taxable income of the REIT, and the status of the partnership or limited liability company as a partnership (as opposed to an association taxable as a corporation) for federal income tax purposes. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned an interest in a subsidiary which was intended to be treated as a QRS. The Code provides that a QRS will be ignored for federal income tax purposes and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deduction and credit of the QRS will be treated as our assets, liabilities and items of income. If any partnership, limited liability company, or subsidiary in which we own an interest were treated as a regular corporation (and not as a partnership, REIT subsidiary, QRS or TRS, as the case may be) for federal income tax purposes, we would likely fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests described above and would therefore fail to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions apply. We believe that each of the partnerships, limited liability companies, and subsidiaries (other than TRS) in which we own an interest will be treated for tax purposes as a partnership, disregarded entity (in the case of a 100% owned partnership or limited liability company), REIT or QRS, as applicable, although no assurance can be given that the IRS will not successfully challenge the status of any such organization. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned interests in certain corporations which have elected to be treated as TRS. A REIT may own any percentage of the voting stock and value of the securities of a corporation which jointly elects with the REIT to be a TRS, provided certain requirements are met. A TRS generally may engage in any business, including the provision of customary or non-customary services to tenants of its parent REIT and of others, except a TRS may not manage or operate a hotel or healthcare facility. A TRS is treated as a regular corporation and is subject to federal income tax and applicable state income and franchise taxes at regular corporate rates. In addition, a 100% tax may be imposed on a REIT if its rental, service or other agreements with its TRS, or the TRS agreements with the REIT&#8217;s tenants, are not on arm&#8217;s-length terms. 

In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute dividends (other than capital gain dividends) to our stockholders in an amount at least equal to (A) the sum of (i) 90% of our &#8220;REIT taxable income&#8221; (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the net income, if any (after tax), from foreclosure property, minus (B) the sum of certain items of non-cash income. Such distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared before we timely file our tax return for such year, if paid on or before the first regular dividend payment date after such declaration and if we so elect and specify the dollar amount in our tax return. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net long-term capital gains or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our REIT taxable income, we will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax rates. Furthermore, if we should fail to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for such year, (ii) 95% of our capital gains income for such year, and (iii) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we would be required to pay a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required distributions over the amounts actually distributed. 

We and our stockholders may be required to pay state or local tax in various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which we or they transact business or reside. The state and local tax treatment of us and our stockholders may not conform to the federal income tax consequences discussed above. We may also be subject to certain taxes applicable to REITs, including taxes in lieu of disqualification as a REIT, on undistributed income, on income from prohibited transactions and on built-in gains from the sale of certain assets acquired from C corporations in tax-free transactions during a specified time period. 

Insurance 

We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio under a blanket insurance policy. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate and adequate given the relative risk of loss and the cost of the coverage and industry practice. For more information about the risks we face regarding insurance, see Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; of this Report. 

Competition 

We compete with a number of developers, owners and operators of office and multifamily real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located. For more information about the risks we face regarding competition, see Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; of this Report. 

Regulation 

Our properties are subject to various covenants, laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas, fire and safety requirements, various environmental laws, the ADA and rent control laws. For more information about the risks we face regarding laws and regulations, see Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; of this Report. 

Sustainability 

In operating our buildings and running our business, we actively work to promote our operations in a sustainable and responsible manner. Our sustainability initiatives include items such as lighting retrofitting, energy management systems, variable frequency drives in our motors, electricity co-generation, energy efficiency, recycling and water conservation. As a result of our efforts, approximately 90% of our eligible office space is ENERGY STAR certified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency as having energy efficiency in the top 25 percent of buildings nationwide. 

Segments 

We operate two &#32;business segments: the acquisition, development, ownership and management of office real estate, and the acquisition, development, ownership and management of multifamily real estate. The services for our office segment include primarily rental of office space and other tenant services, including parking and storage space rental. The services for our multifamily segment include primarily rental of apartments and other tenant services, including parking and storage space rental. See Note 14 &#32;to our consolidated financial statements in Item 15 &#32;of this Report for more information regarding our segments. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 600 &#32;people. 

Principal Executive Offices 

Our principal executive offices are located in the building we own at 808 Wilshire Boulevard, Santa Monica, California 90401 (telephone 310-255-7700). 

Available Information 

All reports that we will file with the SEC will be available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov . We make available on our website at www.douglasemmett.com &#32;our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC. None of the information on or hyperlinked from our website is incorporated into this Report. 

For more information, please contact: 

Stuart McElhinney, Vice President, Investor Relations 

(310) 255-7751 

smcelhinney@douglasemmett.com 

