 ITEM 1. 

&#160; 

Business 

GENERAL 

Clearwater Paper manufactures quality consumer tissue, away-from-home, or AFH, tissue, parent roll tissue, bleached paperboard and pulp at manufacturing facilities across the nation. The company is a premier supplier of private label tissue to major retailers and wholesale distributors, including grocery, drug, mass merchants and discount stores. In addition, the company produces bleached paperboard used by quality-conscious printers and packaging converters. Clearwater Paper's employees build shareholder value by developing strong customer partnerships through quality and service. 

On December 30, 2014, we sold our specialty business and mills to a private buyer. The specialty mill&#8217;s production consisted predominantly of machine-glazed tissue and also included parent rolls and other specialty tissue products such as absorbent materials and dark-hued napkins. The sale included five Clearwater Paper subsidiaries with facilities located at East Hartford, Connecticut; Menominee, Michigan; Gouverneur, New York; St. Catharines, Ontario; and Wiggins, Mississippi. 

Company Strengths 

Leading private label tissue manufacturer with a broad U.S. footprint. &#32;Our consumer products business is a premier private label tissue manufacturer. We have production facilities, including through-air-dried, or TAD, tissue manufacturing facilities in Shelby, North Carolina and Las Vegas, Nevada, and tissue manufacturing facilities in Ladysmith, Wisconsin, Lewiston, Idaho, and Neenah, Wisconsin, as well as converting operations strategically located across the United States. We believe we were the sixth largest manufacturer in the North American tissue market as of December 31, 2015 , based on tissue parent roll capacity. Our broad manufacturing footprint allows us to better and more cost effectively service a diverse customer base, including major grocery store chains and retailers across the entire U.S. 

High quality brand-equivalent tissue and other products to meet retailers' private label strategies. Our consumer products business produces high-quality products that match the quality of the leading national brands. We focus on high value tissue products across a wide variety of categories and retail channels. We also manufacture a broad range of cost-competitive consumer products, as well as recycled tissue and tissue parent rolls. 

High quality premium bleached paperboard products. &#32;Our pulp and paperboard business produces premium paperboard products with ultra-smooth print surfaces, superior cleanliness, and excellent forming and sealing ability. Products are available in several thicknesses to provide the rigidity and strength needed for a wide range of applications. The high quality of our paperboard allows buyers to use our products for packaging where branding and quality are critical, such as ice cream containers, health and beauty packaging, pharmaceutical packaging, and point of purchase displays. 

Long-standing customer relationships. &#32; Our consumer products business supplies private label tissue products to several of the largest national retail chains. Our top 10 consumer products customers in 2015 &#32;accounted for approximately 70% of our total consumer products net sales. The average tenure of these customers was approximately 13 years. In addition to these long-standing customer relationships, throughout the year we maintained a diverse base of 108 customers across a broad geographic area. We also have long-standing customer relationships with our paperboard customers. Our top 10 paperboard customers in 2015 &#32;accounted for approximately 50% of our total paperboard net sales. The average tenure of these customers was approximately 31 years. 

Strategically positioned pulp and paperboard facilities. &#32;Our pulp and paperboard mill in Lewiston, Idaho is one of only two solid bleach sulfate, or SBS, paperboard mills, and the only coated SBS paperboard mill, in the Western U.S. to offer a full range of specialized products to meet the needs of customers for traditional folding carton, plates, cup and liquid packaging. This facility's geographic location reduces transportation costs to customers in the Western U.S. as well as Asia, which allows us to compete on a cost-advantaged basis relative to East Coast competitors. Our Cypress Bend, Arkansas mill is centrally located, which reduces transportation costs to the Midwestern and Eastern U.S. and complements the Lewiston mill in shipping to customers nationwide. 

Largely integrated pulp and tissue operations. &#32;Our consumer products business sources a significant portion of its pulp supply internally from our pulp and paperboard operations in Idaho. This relationship provides our consumer products business with a secure pulp supply as well as significant transportation and drying cost savings, provides our pulp and paperboard business with a steady demand source and helps mitigate input cost volatility associated with purchasing external pulp. 

Strategy 

Our long-term strategy is to grow the size and scope of our business and optimize the profitability of both our consumer products business and our paperboard business. In the near-term, our focus is on optimizing the operating efficiencies and cost effectiveness of both segments of our company. 

ORGANIZATION 

Our businesses are organized into two operating segments: Consumer Products and Pulp and Paperboard. Additional information relating to the amounts of net sales, operating income, depreciation and amortization, identifiable assets and capital expenditures attributable to each of our operating segments for 2013 - 2015 , as well as geographic information regarding our net sales, is set forth in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report. 

Consumer Products Segment 

Our Consumer Products segment manufactures and sells a complete line of at-home tissue products as well as AFH products. Our integrated manufacturing and converting operations and geographic footprint enable us to deliver a broad range of cost-competitive products with brand equivalent quality to our customers. In 2015 , our Consumer Products segment had net sales of $959.9 million . A listing of our Consumer Products segment facilities is included under Part I, Item 2 of this report. 

Tissue Industry Overview 

Consumer Tissue Products. &#32;The U.S. tissue market can be divided into two market segments: the at-home or consumer retail purchase segment, which represents approximately two-thirds of U.S. tissue sales; and the AFH segment, which represents the remaining one-third of U.S. tissue market sales and includes locations such as airports, restaurants, hotels and office buildings. 

The U.S. at-home tissue segment consists of bath, paper towels, facial and napkin products categories. Each category is further distinguished according to quality segments: ultra, premium, value and economy. As a result of process improvements and consumer preferences, the majority of at-home tissue sold in the U.S. is ultra and premium quality. 

At-home tissue producers are comprised of companies that manufacture branded tissue products, private label tissue products, or both. Branded tissue suppliers manufacture, market and sell tissue products under their own nationally branded labels. Private label tissue producers sell tissue products to retailers to sell as their store brand. 

In the U.S., at-home tissue is primarily sold through grocery stores, mass merchants, warehouse clubs, drug stores and discount dollar stores. Tissue has historically been one of the strongest segments of the paper industry due to its steady demand growth and the relative absence of severe supply imbalances that occur in a number of other paper industry segments. In addition to economic and demographic drivers, tissue demand is affected by product innovations and shifts in distribution channels. 

Our Consumer Products Business 

We believe that we are the only U.S. consumer tissue manufacturer that solely produces a full line of quality private label tissue products for large retail trade channels. Most U.S. tissue producers manufacture only branded products, or both branded and private label products, or in the case of certain smaller or midsize manufacturers, only produce a limited range of tissue products or quality segments. Branded producers generally manufacture their private label products at a quality grade or two below their branded products so as not to impair sales of the branded products. Because we do not produce and market branded tissue products, we believe we are able to offer products that match the quality of leading national brands, but generally at lower prices. We utilize independent companies to routinely test our product quality. 

In bathroom tissue, the majority of our sales are high quality two-ply ultra and premium products, including TAD tissue products. In paper towels, we produce and sell ultra quality TAD towels as well as premium and value towels. In the facial category, we sell ultra-lotion three-ply and a complete line of two-ply premium products as well as value facial tissue. In napkins, we manufacture ultra two- and three-ply dinner napkins, as well as premium and value one-ply luncheon napkins. Recycled fiber value grade products are also available to customers who wish to further diversify their product portfolio. We compete primarily in the at-home portion of the U.S. tissue market, which made up approximately 90% of our Consumer Products segment sales in 2015 . 

We manufacture and sell a line of AFH products to customers with commercial and industrial tissue needs. Products include conventional one- and two-ply bath tissue, two-ply paper towels, hard wound towels and dispenser napkins. 

During 2015, our consumer products were manufactured on 12 paper machines in facilities located throughout the U.S. Parent rolls from our paper machines are then converted and packaged at our converting facilities located across the U.S. Two of our paper machines, located in Nevada and North Carolina, produce TAD tissue that we convert into national brand comparable, ultra quality towels and bath tissue. 

In 2015 &#32;and 2014 , through multi-outlet channels, which include grocery, drug, dollar, super and club stores, as well as military purchasing, we sold approximately 26% and 25%, respectively, of the total private label tissue products in the U.S. 

We had one customer in the Consumer Products segment, the Kroger Company, that accounted for approximately $215 million, or 12.3%, of our total company net sales in 2015 and approximately $204 million , or 10.8% , of our total company net sales in 2013. In 2014, we did not have any single customer that accounted for 10% or more of our total net sales. 

We sell private label tissue products through our own sales force and compete based on product quality, customer service and price. We deliver customer-focused business solutions by assisting in managing product assortment, category management, and pricing and promotion optimization. 

Pulp and Paperboard Segment 

Our Pulp and Paperboard segment manufactures and markets bleached paperboard for the high-end segment of the packaging industry and is a leading producer of SBS paperboard. This segment also produces hardwood and softwood pulp, which is primarily used as the basis for our paperboard products, and slush pulp, which it supplies to our Consumer Products segment. In 2015 , our Pulp and Paperboard segment had net sales of $792.5 million . A listing of our Pulp and Paperboard segment facilities is included under Part I, Item 2 of this report. 

Pulp and Paperboard Industry Overview 

SBS paperboard is a premium paperboard grade that is most frequently used to produce folding cartons, liquid packaging, cups and plates as well as commercial printing items. SBS paperboard is used for such products because it is manufactured using virgin fiber combined with the kraft bleaching process, which results in superior cleanliness, brightness and consistency. SBS paperboard is often manufactured with a clay coating to provide superior surface printing qualities. SBS paperboard can also be extrusion coated with a plastic film to provide a moisture barrier for some uses. 

In general, the process of making paperboard begins by chemically cooking wood fibers to make pulp. The pulp is bleached to provide a white, bright pulp, which is formed into paperboard. Bleached pulp that is to be used as market pulp is dried and baled on a pulp drying machine, bypassing the paperboard machines. The various grades of paperboard are wound into rolls for shipment to customers for converting to final end uses. Liquid packaging and cup stock grades are often coated with polyethylene, a plastic coating, in a separate operation to create a resistant and durable liquid barrier. 

Folding Carton Segment . &#32;Folding carton is the largest portion of the SBS category of the U.S. paperboard industry, comprising approximately 39% of the category in 2015 . Within the folding carton segment there are varying qualities of SBS paperboard. The high end of the folding carton category in general requires a premium print surface and includes uses such as packaging for pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and other premium retail goods. SBS paperboard is also used in the packaging of frozen foods, beverages and baked goods. 

Liquid Packaging and Cup Segment . &#32;SBS liquid packaging paperboard is primarily used in the U.S. for the packaging of juices. In Japan and other Asian countries, SBS liquid packaging paperboard is primarily used for the packaging of milk and other consumable liquids. The cup segment of the market consists primarily of hot and cold drink cups and food packaging. The hot and cold cups are primarily used to serve beverages in quick-service restaurants, while round food containers are often used for packaging premium ice-cream and dry food products. 

Commercial Printing Segment . &#32;Commercial printing applications use bleached bristols, which are heavyweight paper grades, to produce postcards, signage and sales literature. Bristols can be clay coated on one side or both sides for applications such as brochures, presentation folders and paperback book covers. Customers in this segment are accustomed to high-quality paper grades, which possess superior printability and brightness compared to most paperboard packaging grades. Suppliers to this segment must be able to deliver small volumes, often within 24 hours. 

Market Pulp . &#32;The majority of the pulp manufactured worldwide is used in paper and paperboard production, usually at the same mill. In those cases where a paper mill does not produce its own pulp or requires pulp with different production qualities, it must purchase pulp on the open market. Market pulp is defined as pulp produced for sale to these customers and it excludes tonnage consumed by the producing mill or shipped to any of its affiliated mills within the same company. 

Our Pulp and Paperboard Business 

Our Pulp and Paperboard segment operates facilities in Idaho, which has two paperboard machines, and Arkansas, which has one paperboard machine. As of December 31, 2015 , we were one of the five largest producers of bleached paperboard in North America with approximately 11% of the available production capacity. 

Our overall pulp and paperboard production consists primarily of folding carton, liquid packaging, cup, plate, commercial printing grades and hardwood and softwood pulp. 

Folding carton board used in pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and other premium packaging, such as those that incorporate foil and holographic lamination, accounts for the largest portion of our total paperboard sales. We focus on high-end folding carton applications where the heightened product quality requirements provide for differentiation among suppliers, resulting in margins that are more attractive than less critical packaging applications. 

Our liquid packaging paperboard is known for its cleanliness and printability, and is engineered for long-lived performance due to its three-ply, softwood construction. Our reputation for producing liquid packaging meeting the most demanding standards for paperboard quality and cleanliness has resulted in meaningful sales in Japan, where consumers have a particular tendency to associate blemish-free, vibrant packaging with the cleanliness, quality and freshness of the liquids contained inside. 

We also sell cup stock and plate stock grades for use in food service products. A majority of our sales in this area consist of premium clay coated cup stock grades used for high-end food packaging, such as premium ice cream. 

We do not produce converted paperboard end-products, so we are not simultaneously a supplier of and a competitor to our customers. Of the five largest SBS paperboard producers in the U.S., we are the only producer that does not also convert SBS paperboard into end products. We believe our position as a non-integrated supplier has resulted in a diverse group of loyal customers because when there is decreased market supply of paperboard, we do not divert our production to internal uses. 

At our Idaho facility we produce bleached softwood pulp primarily for internal use, including in our Consumer Products segment. 

Our pulp mills are currently capable of producing approximately 856,000 &#32;tons of pulp on an annual basis. In 2015 , we produced approximately 802,000 tons of pulp in the aggregate and utilized approximately 81% of that production, or approximately 650,000 tons, to produce approximately 773,000 &#32;tons of paperboard. The increase in tonnage from pulp to paperboard production is due to the addition of coatings and other manufacturing processes. We also used approximately 19% of our pulp production, or approximately 150,000 tons, in our Consumer Products segment to produce tissue products. The remaining pulp production of less than 1%, or approximately 2,000 tons, was sold externally by our Consumer Products segment. 

We utilize various methods for the sale and distribution of our paperboard and softwood pulp. The majority of our paperboard is sold to packaging converters domestically through sales offices located throughout the U.S., with a smaller percentage channeled through distribution to commercial printers. The majority of our international paperboard sales are conducted through sales agents and are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Our principal methods of competing are product quality, customer service and price. 

RAW MATERIALS AND INPUT COSTS 

For our manufacturing operations, the principal raw material used is wood fiber, which consists of purchased pulp and chips, sawdust and logs. During 2015 , our purchased pulp costs were 12.3% &#32;of our cost of sales, while chips, sawdust and logs accounted for 9.7% . In 2015 , our Consumer Products segment sourced approximately 44% of its total pulp supply from our Pulp and Paperboard segment, with the remainder purchased from external suppliers. In 2016 we expect that our Consumer Products segment will source approximately 44% of its total pulp supply from our Pulp and Paperboard segment. We own and operate a wood chipping facility located in Clarkston, Washington, near our Lewiston, Idaho, facility, which we believe bolsters our wood fiber position and provides short-term and long-term cost savings. 

We utilize a significant amount of chemicals in the production of pulp and paper, including caustic, polyethylene, starch, sodium chlorate, latex and specialty process paper chemicals. A portion of the chemicals used in our manufacturing processes, particularly in the pulp-making process, are petroleum-based or are impacted by petroleum prices. During 2015 , chemical costs accounted for 11.9% &#32;of our cost of sales. 

Transportation is a significant cost input for our business. Fuel prices impact our transportation costs for delivery of raw materials to our manufacturing facilities and delivery of our finished products to customers. Our total transportation costs were 12.2% &#32;of our cost of sales in 2015 . 

We consume substantial amounts of energy, such as electricity, hog fuel, steam and natural gas. During 2015 , energy costs accounted for 7.0% &#32;of our cost of sales. We purchase a significant portion of our natural gas and electricity under supply contracts, most of which are between a specific facility and a specific local provider. Under most of these contracts, the providers have agreed to provide us with our requirements for a particular type of energy at a specific facility. Most of these contracts have pricing mechanisms that adjust or set prices based on current market prices. In addition, we use firm-price contracts to mitigate price risk for certain of our energy requirements. 

As a significant producer of private label consumer tissue products, we also incur expenses related to packaging supplies used for retail chains, wholesalers and cooperative buying organizations. Our total packaging costs for 2015 &#32;were 6.0% &#32;of our cost of sales. 

Our maintenance and repairs represented 6.0% &#32;of our cost of sales for 2015 &#32;and are expensed as incurred. We perform routine maintenance on our machines and equipment and periodically replace a variety of parts such as motors, pumps, pipes and electrical parts. 

We also record depreciation expense associated with our plant and equipment. Depreciation expense was 5.0% &#32;of our cost of sales for 2015 . 

SEASONALITY 

Our Consumer Products segment experiences a decrease in shipments during the fourth quarter generally as a result of decreased consumer demand, retail brand holiday promotions, and end of year inventory management by non-retail customers. In addition, customer buying patterns for our paperboard generally result in lower sales for our Pulp and Paperboard segment during the first and fourth quarters, when compared to the second and third quarters of a given year. 

ENVIRONMENTAL 

Information regarding environmental matters is included under Part II, Item 7 &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this report, and is incorporated herein by reference. 

WEBSITE 

Interested parties may access our periodic and current reports filed with the SEC, at no charge, by visiting our website, www.clearwaterpaper.com. In the menu select &#8220;Investor Relations,&#8221; then select &#8220;Financial Information &#38; SEC Filings.&#8221; Information on our website is not part of this report. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 3,300 &#32;employees, of which approximately 2,040 &#32;were employed by our Consumer Products segment, approximately 1,110 &#32;were employed by our Pulp and Paperboard segment and approximately 150 &#32;were corporate administration employees. This workforce consisted of approximately 720 &#32;salaried employees and approximately 2,580 &#32;hourly and fixed rate employees. As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 52% &#32;of our workforce was covered under collective bargaining agreements. 

Unions represent hourly employees at three of our manufacturing sites. There are three hourly union labor contracts that expire in 2016: 

CONTRACT 

EXPIRATION 

DATE 

DIVISION AND LOCATION 

UNION 

APPROXIMATE 

NUMBER OF HOURLY 

EMPLOYEES 

May 31, 2016 

Pulp &#38; Paperboard Division-Lewiston, Idaho, No. 4 Power Boiler Unit 

International Association of Machinists (IAM) 

May 31, 2016 

Consumer Products Division-Neenah, Wisconsin 

United Steel Workers (USW) 

July 31, 2016 

Pulp &#38; Paperboard Division-Cypress Bend, Arkansas 

United Steel Workers (USW) 

6 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The following individuals are deemed our &#8220;executive officers&#8221; under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as of December 31, 2015 . Executive officers of the company are generally appointed as such at the annual meeting of our board, and each officer holds office until the officer&#8217;s successor is duly elected and qualified or until the earlier of the officer&#8217;s death, resignation, retirement, removal by the board or as otherwise provided in our bylaws. There are no arrangements or understandings between any of our executive officers and any other persons pursuant to which they were selected as officers. No family relationships exist among any of our executive officers. 

Linda K. Massman (age 49), has served as President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as a director, since January 2013. Ms. Massman served as President and COO from November 2011 to December 2012. She served as CFO and Senior Vice President, Finance from May 2011 to November 2011, and as CFO and Vice President, Finance from December 2008 to May 2011. From September 2008 to December 2008, Ms. Massman served as Vice President of Potlatch Corporation pending completion of the spin-off of Clearwater Paper Corporation. From May 2002 to August 2008, Ms. Massman was Group Vice President, Finance and Corporate Planning, for SUPERVALU Inc., a grocery retail company. Ms. Massman also serves as a director of Black Hills Corporation, an energy company, and as a member of Black Hills Corporation's Compensation Committee. 

John D. Hertz (age 49) joined the company in June 2012 as Senior Vice President, and has served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer since August 2012. From June 2010 to June 2012, Mr. Hertz was the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Novellus Systems, Inc. From October 2007 to June 2010, he served as Novellus' Vice President of Corporate Finance and Principal Accounting Officer and as Vice President and Corporate Controller from June 2007 to October 2007. From 2000 to 2007, Mr. Hertz worked for Intel Corporation where he held a number of positions, including Central Finance Controller of the Digital Enterprise Group, Finance Controller of the Enterprise Platform Services Division and Accounting Policy Controller. Prior to that, Mr. Hertz was a Senior Manager with KPMG. 

Patrick T. Burke (age 55) has served as Senior Vice President, Group President since October 2015, and served as Senior Vice President and President, Consumer Products Division from April 2015 to October 2015. From May 2014 to April 2015, he served as Vice President, Supply Chain. From March 2011 to April 2014, Mr. Burke served as the Director of West for Pepsi Beverage Company, and from January 2008 to February 2011, as the Director of the Western Region for Gatorade, for Pepsi America Beverages. 

Michael S. Gadd (age 51) has served as Senior Vice President since May 2011 and General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since December 2008. He served as Vice President from December 2008 to May 2011. From March 2006 to December 2008, Mr. Gadd served as Associate General Counsel of Potlatch Corporation, and served as Corporate Secretary of Potlatch from July 2007 to December 2008. From January 2001 to January 2006, Mr. Gadd was an attorney with Perkins Coie, LLP in Portland, Oregon. 

Danny G. Johansen (age 65) has served as Senior Vice President since January 2013 and served as President of Pulp and Paperboard from January 2013 to October 2015. From December 2008 through December 2012, he served as Vice President, Sales and Marketing, for Pulp and Paperboard. Prior to December 2008, Mr. Johansen was employed by Potlatch Corporation for nearly 36 years. From 2002 to December 2008, he served as the Director of Sales, Idaho Pulp and Paperboard division, for Potlatch. 

Kari G. Moyes (age 48) has served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources since February 2015, and served as Vice President, Labor Relations from July 2013 through January 2015. From November 2010 through June 2013, Ms. Moyes served as National Director of Human Resources for Nestl&#233;, a food manufacturer. Prior to her tenure with Nestle, Ms. Moyes spent 10 years with Pepsico in various capacities. 

