 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

OvaScience is a global fertility company focused on the discovery, development, and commercialization of new fertility treatment options for women. The current standard of treatment for infertility is in vitro &#32;fertilization, or IVF. IVF, however, fails approximately 70% of the time. The discovery of Egg precursor, or EggPC SM &#32;cells countered a long-held medical belief that women are born with a set number of eggs, thereby enabling new fertility treatment options. Our patented technology is based on these newly discovered EggPC cells and represents a new fertility treatment option. 

These EggPC cells are immature egg cells found in the protective outer lining of a woman's own ovaries. These immature egg cells have the ability to grow into fresh, young, healthy eggs. Our portfolio of fertility treatment options uses our patented technology including proprietary methods to identify and isolate EggPC cells from a patient's own ovarian tissue. By applying our EggPC technology platform in unique ways, we have commercialized one fertility treatment and are developing new fertility treatment options that are designed to improve egg health and revolutionize IVF. 

More women around the world are waiting later in life to start families and are in need of new fertility treatment options. Fertility decreases with age. The main cause of age related infertility is poor egg health, which is linked to a reduction in the number of functioning mitochondria. Other causes of poor egg health relating to mitochondrial deficiency include Type 2 diabetes. Accordingly, women throughout the world are increasingly seeking new treatment options for infertility. 

Our first treatment, the AUGMENT SM &#32;treatment, is specifically designed to improve egg health by supplementing a mitochondrial deficiency which may in turn offer the potential for enhanced IVF success rates. With the AUGMENT treatment, energy-producing mitochondria from a patient's own EggPC cells are added to the patient's mature eggs during the IVF process to supplement the existing mitochondria. The AUGMENT treatment has been introduced in our partner IVF clinics outside of the United States, which we refer to as our partner clinics, and we plan to expand the network of clinics and clinicians offering the AUGMENT treatment, focusing in Japan, Western Europe and Canada. We have introduced the treatment in clinics in different countries through non-commercial preceptorship training programs that transition to commercial operations and in studies conducted by partner clinics. In some cases, we and our partner clinics have had discussions with local regulatory bodies, such as the Ministry of Health and La Comisi&#243;n Nacional de Reproducci&#243;n Humana Asistida, or CNRHA in Spain, and the Ministry of Health and Japan Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology (JSOG), prior to introducing the AUGMENT treatment. In connection with AUGMENT's recent approval by JSOG in Japan, we plan to build the infrastructure to support a non-commercial preceptorship training program as well as our future commercial introduction in Japan. Japan is one of the largest IVF markets in the world. We are working with the IVI Group, the largest IVF clinic network in the world, to obtain prospective patient experience data in a study in Valencia, Spain and we plan to work with other partner clinics on similar studies. In 2016, the IVI Group plans to continue enrollment of patients in its controlled, double-blind, prospective and randomized egg allocation study of the AUGMENT treatment. This adaptive study compares standard IVF to the AUGMENT treatment. The AUGMENT treatment is not available in the United States. 

The OvaPrime SM &#32;treatment is a potential fertility treatment that could enable a woman to increase her own egg reserve. Approximately 25% of women who start an IVF cycle fail to produce a sufficient number of eggs (or the eggs are too immature). The OvaPrime treatment is designed to replenish a woman's egg reserve by transferring a patient's EggPC cells from the protective ovarian lining back into the patient's own ovaries where they may mature into fertilizable eggs during the IVF process. We reported large-animal proof-of-concept studies in 2014. In December 2015, we commenced a non-commercial preceptorship training program with the OvaPrime treatment in an international region outside the United States. To date, only biopsies have been performed. We plan to decide whether to progress the OvaPrime program, based on data from the preceptorship training program, by the end of 2016. 

The OvaTure SM &#32;treatment is a potential next-generation fertility treatment that could help a woman produce healthy, young, fertilizable eggs without the need for hormone injections. The OvaTure treatment seeks to mature a woman's own EggPC cells into eggs outside her body. This potential treatment may be an option for women with compromised eggs, who are unable to make eggs, or who may be unwilling or unable to undergo hormone hyperstimulation, such as women diagnosed with cancer. We established human preclinical proof-of-concept and continue to optimize the maturation process by demonstrating that human EggPC cells can be matured into eggs outside of the body. In 2016, we will continue development of the OvaTure procedure, with a goal of further understanding and defining the clinical path forward. The aim is to characterize EggPC-derived mature eggs. We are seeking permission from regulatory authorities outside the United States for certain steps necessary to complete testing of EggPC derived eggs. 

We believe our EggPC technology has the potential to make significant advances in the field of fertility because it is designed to address poor egg health and embryo quality due to age and other causes. We believe our EggPC technology could improve IVF by: 

Increasing live birth rates and reducing the number of IVF cycles. By improving egg health, we believe we may increase the percentage of live births and reduce the number of IVF cycles required. 

Reducing the incidence of multiple births. By generating higher quality eggs, we believe our EggPC technology may allow for the transfer of fewer embryos per IVF cycle and, as a result, lower the incidence of multiple births and the associated complications. 

Lowering the overall cost of the IVF process. If we reduce the number of IVF cycles required for a live birth and the incidence of multiple births, we believe our fertility treatment options may also lower the overall costs associated with the IVF process. 

Replenishing the ovary for women who make too few, or no, eggs. Our OvaPrime treatment is designed to replenish a woman's egg reserve by transferring a patient's EggPC cells from the protective ovarian lining back into the patient's own ovaries where they may mature into fertilizable eggs. 

Reducing the need for hormonal hyperstimulation. We are designing our OvaTure treatment to mature EggPC cells into fertilizable eggs in vitro, &#32;or outside the body. If successful, the OvaTure treatment could reduce, or possibly eliminate, the need for hormonal hyperstimulation for the maturation of multiple oocytes prior to egg retrieval in the IVF process. 

Developing new treatments for diseases. OvaXon SM &#32;is a joint venture with Intrexon Corporation, or Intrexon, which is focused on developing significant improvements in human and animal health using our EggPC cell technology and Intrexon's synthetic biology and high throughput platform for applications. 

Global Fertility Market 

In 2013, the European Society for Human Reproduction (ESHRE), the mission of which is to promote the understanding of reproductive biology and medicine, reported that the worldwide prevalence of infertility among women aged 20 to 44 was approximately 9%. There are 1.5 million IVF cycles performed each year globally, and the number of women seeking treatment for infertility is growing rapidly in regions like Japan, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Latin America (Figure 1). ESHRE estimates that 1 in 6 couples worldwide experience some form of infertility. Female infertility contributes to 45-75% of all cases. According to a 2014 report from Allied Market Research, the global IVF market in 2012 was valued at $9.3 billion, and projected to grow to $21.6 billion by 2020. 

IVF Treatment and Success 

IVF is one of the most common procedures in use today to address infertility. 

An IVF procedure (Figure 2) typically begins with hyperstimulation of the woman's ovaries by a combination of fertility hormones. Then one or more eggs are taken from the woman's ovarian follicles and fertilized in vitro &#32;with either standard insemination, or a technique called intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), in which a single sperm is injected by needle into the egg. If the egg is healthy and has enough energy, it will start to divide, and the resulting embryo can be transferred into the woman's uterus 3-5 days after ICSI. These steps typically occur over several months. 

Fertility decreases with age because of a decline in both egg health and embryo quality. A key factor for egg health and embryo quality is the energy level in the egg. Figure 3 demonstrates that IVF success declines with age if a woman is using her own egg. The IVF procedure also may be performed using eggs donated from another woman (donor egg). When a woman chooses to use a younger woman's donor egg, studies show that success rates are similar to a younger woman's. 

Despite relatively low success rates, risks and other shortcomings, the use of IVF treatments has become increasingly common, especially for women faced with declining fertility due to their age. 

It is estimated that the international markets account for 90% of global IVF. Examples of other countries in which a large number of IVF cycles are performed include Japan and Australia. In addition, countries like Russia, Turkey, UAE, Brazil and certain other Latin American countries are estimated to be growing at a rate of 30-40%. In many markets globally, IVF is paid for out-of-pocket, particularly in high growth areas outside the European Union, or the EU, and the United States. Many third party payors, including national health services or government funded insurance programs, as well as private payors, place significant restrictions on coverage and reimbursement for IVF and other assisted reproductive technology, or ART, procedures. These restrictions include limits on the types of procedures covered, limits on the number of procedures covered and overall annual or lifetime dollar limits on reimbursement for IVF and other ART procedures. Our preliminary market research indicates that this is primarily due to the fact that many women seeking IVF treatments are of advanced maternal age and are concerned that fertility and IVF success rates will continue to decline over time. As a result, women and couples will frequently pay out of pocket for fertility treatments, such as IVF, rather than avail themselves of other step-based approaches to fertility treatment, such as oral fertility drugs to stimulate ovulation or intrauterine insemination procedures ("IUI"), that may be required by insurance programs. 

As shown in the table below, according to a 2010 CDC report, IVF pregnancy success rates for women over age 35 remain relatively flat, regardless of the woman's age, when using donor eggs. 

The Role of Mitochondria in Egg Health 

Fertility decreases with age, and the energy levels in the egg are believed to play a major role in this decline (Figure 3). After fertilization, the early stage embryo requires energy for cell division. Inadequate energy results in a failure of the newly formed embryo to develop. We believe that the energy level in a woman's eggs may be supplemented, and the success of embryo development improved, by the injection of mitochondria from the woman's own EggPC cells into her egg at the time of fertilization. 

Animal Studies. &#32;Studies published in peer reviewed medical journals, including Human Cell &#32;(2004), Electronic Journal of Biology &#32;(2005), Reproduction Research &#32;(2006) and Reproductive Biomedicine (2011), provided evidence of the effects of mitochondria on egg health. In these studies, which involved a number of species, including bovine, porcine, rabbit and murine, third-party scientists demonstrated that the addition of mitochondria to eggs with mitochondrial deficiencies increased cellular energy levels, egg health and the likelihood of fertilization and healthy live births. 

Donor Mitochondria Studies. &#32;In humans, clinical case reports published in the peer-reviewed medical journals Molecular Human Reproduction &#32;(1998) and Human Reproduction &#32;(2001), researchers transferred cytoplasm from the eggs of younger women donors into the eggs of older women who failed multiple IVF cycles. The cytoplasm is the liquid portion of a human cell that surrounds the nucleus and contains the egg's mitochondria. Each of these reports showed increased rates of fertilization, embryo development, implantation and pregnancy for the older women whose eggs were transfused. In one of these published reports, approximately 30 women who had previously failed two to five IVF cycles, achieved 13 pregnancies and delivered 16 healthy offspring. Additional published reports showed similar success rates ranging from 25%-44% for women who had previously failed multiple cycles and had not achieved a pregnancy. 

These clinical case reports served as the basis for the scientific hypothesis that the addition of healthy donor mitochondria might be used to improve the quality of eggs with mitochondrial deficiencies. However, following publication of these initial clinical reports, many scientists and clinicians questioned the long-term safety of the use of third party donor mitochondria in humans because mitochondria contain DNA. Mitochondria produce energy in all cells of the body. Unlike nuclear DNA, contained in the nucleus, which is inherited from two different people, half from the biological mother and half from the biological father, mitochondrial DNA is inherited solely from the mother. As a result, while the process appeared to be safe with respect to the fertilized egg and the patient, scientists and clinicians questioned whether the presence of mitochondria, and therefore mitochondrial DNA, from two different women might adversely impact a child's health later in life. In response to these concerns, the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, stated that the use of cells in therapy involving the transfer of third party genetic materials, including mitochondrial DNA, requires submission of an Investigational New Drug application, or IND. 

Our Approach. The approach we are using with the AUGMENT treatment builds on these reports but uses a woman's own mitochondria from her own EggPC cells to improve her fertility instead of third-party donor mitochondria. While all cells contain mitochondria, we believe the mitochondria from cells involved in reproduction, known as germline cells, as opposed to other cells in the body, known as somatic cells, are the ideal source of mitochondria for transfer to improve egg health. This is because somatic cells are exposed to environmental toxins and cell waste products that may cause mutations or deletions in mitochondrial DNA that can be passed on during cell division. These mutations and deletions can decrease the quality of the mitochondria and the ability to produce energy. In contrast, the mitochondrial DNA from germline cells contain minimal 

mutations and deletions. Because the mitochondria within an egg are the template for all subsequent cell reproduction in the offspring, we believe that it is necessary to use high-quality mitochondria to improve egg health. 

The approach we are using with the AUGMENT treatment is to use germline mitochondria from the patient's own EggPC cells to improve the quality of the patient's eggs. By using mitochondria from the woman's own EggPC cells, instead of from a third party donor, the AUGMENT treatment does not involve the transfer of third-party genetic material. 

Publication of AUGMENT Treatment Experience in Peer-Reviewed Journal. &#32;&#32;In August 2015, the first published analysis comparing the AUGMENT treatment to standard IVF within the same woman within the same cycle was included in the peer-reviewed Journal of Fertilization: In Vitro- IVF-Worldwide Reproductive Medicine, Genetic &#38; Stem Cell Biology . The analysis demonstrated statistically significant higher rates of embryo selection and transfer with the AUGMENT treatment based on standard embryo quality measures, including preimplantation genetic diagnosis/screening, resulting in statistically significant higher rates of pregnancy. 

The Discovery of Egg Precursor Cells 

In 2004, one of our scientific founders, Jonathan Tilly, Ph.D. (who at that point in time was the co-founder and Director of the Vincent Center for Reproductive Biology at Harvard Medical School and the Massachusetts General Hospital, or MGH, and is currently the Chair of Northeastern Department of Biology), discovered the existence of EggPC cells within the ovaries of adult mice. Subsequent research by Dr. Tilly demonstrated that these EggPC cells also exist in human ovaries and have the potential to mature into eggs and, therefore, to replenish a woman's egg supply. This research demonstrated that these EggPC cells might provide a source of fresh cellular components, such as mitochondria, that could potentially be used to enhance the health of existing eggs. 

Dr. Tilly discovered the existence of mouse EggPC cells by staining the outer cell layer of the ovary using an antibody that binds specifically to a protein found on EggPC cells called mouse VASA homologue. Following publication of this discovery in Nature Medicine &#32;in 2004, Dr. Tilly performed additional research, beginning in 2005, which demonstrated the existence of human EggPC cells in adult human ovaries. In this research, Dr. Tilly replicated the results obtained with mouse tissue using human ovarian tissue. Dr. Tilly was able to isolate precursor cells in the ovaries of reproductive age women using an antibody that binds to the human VASA analogue protein, which is found on human EggPC cells. Dr. Tilly also conducted an experiment in which human EggPC cells were isolated in vitro &#32;and then grafted into female mouse hosts and matured in vivo &#32;into eggs that exhibited a genetic signature indicating the eggs could be fertilized. Dr. Tilly's research findings with respect to human EggPC cells were published in the March 2012 issue of Nature Medicine . These findings have been corroborated by multiple independent laboratories. 

In addition, we conducted additional preclinical proof-of-concept studies for the OvaPrime treatment that demonstrated the ability to mature an EggPC cell into a mature egg in the ovary ( in vivo ), and we achieved human preclinical proof-of-concept with the OvaTure treatment by demonstrating that human EggPC cells can be matured into eggs outside of the body. 

We hold an exclusive license from MGH to multiple issued patents as well as various patent applications directed to methods of identifying and isolating EggPC cells, compositions comprising EggPC cells and methods of using EggPC cells to treat infertility and related disorders. 

The AUGMENT Treatment 

Our first treatment, the AUGMENT treatment, has been introduced in our partner clinics outside of the United States, and we plan to expand the network of clinics and clinicians offering the AUGMENT treatment, focusing in Japan, Western Europe and Canada. The AUGMENT treatment is not available in the United States. An AUGMENT treatment cycle begins upon our receipt of the patient's ovarian tissue after biopsy, which is obtained through a biopsy performed by the patient's doctor prior to hormone stimulation. Our proprietary process identifies and isolates the patient&#8217;s own EggPC cells, and then the patient&#8217;s own mitochondria from these EggPC cells are further isolated. The patient&#8217;s own mitochondria are then injected into her egg at the time of intracytoplasmic sperm injection, or ICSI. We expect to receive payment before processing the patient's tissue and defer revenue until we deliver the mitochondria to the clinic, which is timed with the patient's standard IVF cycle and can stretch from 30 to 120 days or more. Within certain of our sales programs, revenue recognition may be further deferred. The early data presented by our partner clinics has been very encouraging. 

We have established our international headquarters in the United Kingdom to coordinate our international commercial efforts. We plan to focus our efforts on the regions of Japan, Western Europe and Canada. Within these regions we will target customers that combine elements of the following key criteria: 

&#8226; 

Key opinion leaders 

&#8226; 

High volume IVF clinics 

&#8226; 

High quality IVF labs 

&#8226; 

Out-of-pocket pay and high average cost per cycle 

&#8226; 

Potential for reimbursement by healthcare providers 

&#8226; 

Donor egg restrictions 

As part of the AUGMENT treatment, a woman's eggs may be revitalized by injecting mitochondria from her own EggPC cells into her egg during IVF. This has the potential to improve egg health. Improved egg health may offer the potential for enhanced IVF success rates. 

The AUGMENT treatment complements the existing standard of practice for an IVF cycle. Prior to hormone hyperstimulation, a small ovarian tissue biopsy is taken by the patient's doctor. Our proprietary process identifies and isolates the patient's own EggPC cells, and then the patient's own mitochondria from these EggPC cells are isolated. The patient's own mitochondria are then injected into her egg at the time of intracytoplasmic sperm injection, or ICSI. 

The development of ART has a long history of innovation based on techniques and tools developed around the world. In fact, all of the major innovations in fertility treatment have been developed in countries outside of the United States, including IVF and ICSI, and more recently, time-lapse imaging, oocyte vitrification and in vitro maturation of oocytes. We believe that this is a main reason why the IVF market is predominantly located outside of the United States and why 90% of the 1.5 million annual IVF cycles are performed outside of the United States. Given the market size, as well as the innovative history and acceptance of new fertility methods and technologies internationally, we have consistently maintained a strategy to make our fertility treatments available to patients worldwide. We launched the AUGMENT treatment through an access program by partnering with select international IVF clinics. 

Regulation of the AUGMENT Treatment 

We plan to continue to expand the introduction of the AUGMENT treatment outside of the United States. In those countries where we have introduced the AUGMENT treatment or plan to introduce the treatment, we believe that the AUGMENT treatment is not subject to the traditional regulatory requirements (e.g., lengthy pre-market review and approval of an application for marketing authorization) that apply to drugs, biologics, medicinal products and medical devices. However, applicable regulatory bodies may disagree with our view. If they do, we and our partner clinics may suffer significant delay or expense or may cease offering the treatment in such countries. 

The countries where we are offering the AUGMENT treatment or plan to offer the AUGMENT treatment do, in some cases, have regulations that govern IVF and other fertility treatments, which vary country by country. Those regulations may apply to the AUGMENT treatment. In some countries, there are specific fertility regulatory authorities, such as the United Kingdom&#8217;s Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA), which license IVF facilities and determine what procedures such establishments may perform. In other countries, the national health authority may delegate the review of a fertility treatment to an industry self-regulatory body, an institutional review board, or other body. For example, the recent approval of our partner clinic&#8217;s application to use the AUGMENT treatment in Japan was made by the Japan Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology (JSOG). Further, the study of the AUGMENT treatment that we are working on with the IVI Group, our partner clinic in Spain, was approved by La Comisi&#243;n Nacional de Reproducci&#243;n Humana Asistida (CNRHA). 

We, together with our partner clinics, plan to apply on a country by country basis for whatever licenses or approvals, if any, are required to offer the AUGMENT treatment. In some cases, there are no clear guidelines on what standards may apply to the AUGMENT treatment or what licenses or approvals may be required, and we therefore have engaged and will continue to engage in discussions with regulatory authorities in certain of the countries in which we have introduced or plan to introduce the AUGMENT treatment. If we or our partner clinics are unable to obtain any required licenses or approvals in a particular country, if the application process takes longer than expected, or if additional licenses or approvals are required to commercialize the treatment on a large scale, then our introduction of the AUGMENT treatment in such countries may be delayed, we may incur additional expenses, and we may determine not to provide the treatment in such countries. 

The United States does not have a fertility regulatory body separate and apart from the FDA. In September 2013, we received an "untitled" letter from the FDA advising us to file an IND application for the AUGMENT treatment. Following the receipt of the FDA letter, we chose to suspend the availability of the AUGMENT treatment in the United States. 

AUGMENT Treatment Steps 

We designed the AUGMENT treatment to use mitochondria from a woman's own EggPC cells in IVF procedures to improve the energy and health of the woman's eggs. The following is a summary of the process that we are using to prepare the patient's own mitochondria for injection into one of her own mature eggs during IVF: 

&#8226; 

Obtain Ovarian Tissue: Ovarian surface tissue is obtained by the IVF clinic prior to the AUGMENT treatment. 

&#8226; 

Identify and Isolate EggPC Cells: We receive the ovarian tissue and perform all AUGMENT related proprietary procedures needed to isolate the EggPC cells. Ovarian tissue is washed, digested with enzymes, and mechanically dissociated to form a solution containing single cells. EggPC cells will be separated from the other cells in the single cell solution by a process known as fluorescence activated cell sorting, or FACS. EggPC cells can then be processed for isolation of mitochondria (described below) or frozen and stored in vials until the day of egg fertilization in the IVF process. 

&#8226; 

Prepare Mitochondria from EggPC Cells: We perform all AUGMENT related proprietary procedures needed to isolate the mitochondria from EggPC cells. EggPC cells will be disrupted mechanically and mitochondria isolated by differential centrifugation. 

&#8226; 

Inject EggPC Cell Mitochondria into Egg: An embryologist at a partner clinic, trained by OvaScience, receives the preparation of mitochondria and injects it into the egg, in a single injection alongside the sperm, during the ICSI (intracytoplasmic injection) step of the IVF process. 

Each of the steps described above follows routine clinical laboratory processes and procedures, and none of these steps requires new methods, equipment or technologies to execute. Specifically, the process of isolating the EggPC cells is performed using commercially available separation techniques. However, we have developed a proprietary monoclonal antibody to identify these cells, as the commercially available antibodies have been shown to be far less than optimal. The proprietary antibody has enabled us to establish a reliable and consistent method to readily identify and isolate the EggPC cells. Because the EggPC technology serves as the basis for all of our fertility treatments, including those on the market and in development, our proprietary monoclonal antibody and proprietary process by which EggPC cells are identified and isolated, together with a number of issued and pending patents, provides a strong intellectual property foundation. 

We have established cGTP-compliant facilities and currently perform the steps in the process ourselves in our laboratories either within or contiguous to the IVF clinics in which the AUGMENT treatment is offered. 

The OvaPrime Treatment 

The OvaPrime treatment is a potential new fertility treatment designed to replenish a woman's ovary by increasing her egg reserve using her own EggPC cells. Approximately 25% of women who start an IVF cycle fail to produce a sufficient number of eggs (or the eggs are too immature). Similar to the AUGMENT treatment, the OvaPrime treatment may be integrated into the IVF cycle starting with a small tissue biopsy of the outer lining of the ovary, where the EggPC cells reside. Our proprietary process aims to isolate a patient's own EggPC cells, which would then be delivered into the patient's own ovaries, where we believe they can mature into fertilizable eggs during the IVF process. In December 2015, we commenced a non-commercial preceptorship training program with the OvaPrime treatment in an international region outside the United States. To date, only biopsies have been performed. We plan to decide whether to progress the OvaPrime program, based on data from the preceptorship training program, by the end of 2016. If we progress the OvaPrime program to be commercially available, we expect to offer the OvaPrime treatment to the partner clinics that also offer the AUGMENT treatment. 

Additional Fertility Options under Development 

We have an additional fertility treatment under development, the OvaTure treatment, based on the same EggPC technology as the AUGMENT and OvaPrime treatments. It is our goal to offer multiple options so physicians can help patients select the optimal treatment, which could include new solutions for age-related egg health issues, diminished ovarian reserve, premature ovarian failure, polycystic ovary syndrome, or other conditions affecting fertility. 

The OvaTure Treatment 

The OvaTure treatment is a potential next-generation fertility treatment that seeks to create mature fertilizable eggs in vitro &#32;from a woman's own EggPC cells without the need for hormone hyperstimulation. The OvaTure treatment may provide a new option for women with compromised eggs who are unable to make eggs or who may be unwilling or unable to undergo hormone hyperstimulation, such as women diagnosed with cancer. To accelerate development, in December 2013, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Intrexon Corporation to access their industrialized synthetic biology platform. The collaboration provides that Intrexon will deliver laboratory and animal data for the OvaTure treatment. We own exclusive human commercial rights for the OvaTure treatment in humans. In 2016, we will continue development of the OvaTure procedure, with a goal of further understanding and defining the clinical path forward. The aim is to characterize EggPC-derived mature eggs. We are seeking permission from regulatory authorities outside the United States for certain steps necessary to complete testing of EggPC derived eggs. 

Research and Development Spending 

During the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;we spent approximately $18.4 million , $21.8 million &#32;and $15.8 million , respectively, on our research and development activities. 

Manufacturing 

We have established cGTP-compliant facilities and currently perform the steps in the process ourselves in our laboratories either within or contiguous to the international IVF clinics in which the AUGMENT treatment is offered. 

In addition, we have contracted with a global third-party supplier to perform the identification and isolation of EggPC cells and the preparation of mitochondria steps in the AUGMENT process in case in the future we decide to do offsite manufacturing. Our supplier has significant experience in tissue and cell therapy manufacturing. In the future, we may use our existing global manufacturer, contract with in-country manufacturers or continue to manufacture on-site in clinics using our own equipment and our own employees. In the future, we may contract with an additional global supplier and may build our own facility to carry out these steps in the AUGMENT process and certain steps in our potential fertility treatments. In some regions outside of the United States, we may contract with third parties, through partnerships, out-licenses or other arrangements, to process and manufacture our potential fertility treatments. 

Marketing and Sales 

We are in the process of expanding our global sales and marketing team to meet anticipated market demand, and plan to build in-region sales and marketing teams in key regions as we continue to increase the availability of the AUGMENT treatment and support the introduction of OvaPrime if we determine to move forward with the program based on the data from our non-commercial preceptorship training program. During the second half of 2015, we offered discounted treatments under various pilot pricing programs. These programs are designed to broaden the customer base knowledge and hands on experience with AUGMENT treatment. We plan to continue offering similar pricing programs in the future. We expect to offer the OvaPrime treatment, when commercially available, to partner clinics that also offer the AUGMENT treatment, and therefore expect to leverage the same sales and marketing infrastructure for both treatments. All of our revenues to date have been derived from sales outside of the United States. 

UK Headquarters and Foreign Subsidiaries 

We have established international headquarters in the United Kingdom to coordinate our international commercial efforts. We have also established, or are in the process of establishing, subsidiaries in certain key regions where we will offer our fertility treatments. These subsidiaries are part of an international legal entity structure through which we plan to (and have, in some cases) license the ex-US commercial rights to the AUGMENT treatment, as well as the OvaPrime treatment, OvaTure treatment and any other potential future products or treatments. This arrangement would allow any potential value enhancement and future profits for the assets to be shared between us and the subsidiaries. 

Intellectual Property 

We believe we have a strong and growing intellectual property portfolio. We aggressively strive to protect the proprietary technology that we believe is important to our business, including seeking and maintaining patents intended to cover our treatments and compositions, their methods of use and processes for their manufacture, as well as any other inventions that are commercially important to the development of our business. We seek to obtain domestic and international patent protection, and endeavor to promptly file patent applications for new commercially valuable inventions. We also rely on trade secrets to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. 

Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for commercially important technology, inventions and know-how related to our business, defend and enforce our patents, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the valid and enforceable patents and proprietary rights of third parties. We will also rely on continuing technological innovation and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. 

Patents and Patent Applications 

We have exclusively licensed a portfolio of patent applications owned or co-owned by The General Hospital Corporation, the corporate entity of MGH, pursuant to an agreement that is summarized below. As of March 2, 2015, we held an exclusive license under this agreement to four issued U.S. patents owned by MGH, four pending U.S. non-provisional patent applications owned by MGH, three patents issued by patent and trademark offices outside of the United States which are owned by MGH, sixty applications pending with patent and trademark offices outside of the United States which are owned by MGH, two pending U.S. non-provisional application co-owned by MGH and The President and Fellows of Harvard College, or Harvard, and sixteen applications pending in patent and trademark offices outside of the United States which are co-owned by MGH and Harvard. 

One family of patents and applications that we have licensed from MGH is directed to compositions comprising, and methods of isolating, female germline stem cells, and various uses for such female germline stem cells, including methods for IVF, methods for egg production, methods to treat infertility and methods to restore ovarian function. This family includes two issued U.S. patents, both of which will expire in May 2025, and which include claims directed to the composition and processing methods for obtaining isolated non-embryonic stem cells that express the protein markers characteristic of female germline stem cells. We believe that these patents provide protection for therapeutic compositions comprising EggPC cells, which are referred to in the patents as female germline stem cells, as well as elements of the manufacturing process for obtaining such therapeutic compositions. 

A second family of patent applications that we have licensed from MGH is directed to methods and compositions for producing female germline cells from stem cells derived from either bone marrow or peripheral blood. This family includes two pending U.S. non-provisional applications and one Canadian application, which, if issued as patent(s), also would expire in May 2025. We believe that patents issuing from this family may provide protection for an alternative method of obtaining EggPC cells. 

A third family of patent applications that we have licensed from MGH is directed to methods and compositions for autologous germline mitochondrial energy transfer. This family includes two issued U.S. patents, one pending U.S. non-provisional patent application, one issued patent in each of Australia, Mongolia and Singapore, and an additional fifty-six counterpart applications that are pending with patent and trademark offices outside of the United States. The issued patents, and any patents claiming priority to the underlying provisional application, generally will expire in April 2032. We believe that these patents, and any patents issuing from this family, provide protection for the AUGMENT treatment and several important aspects thereof. 

A fourth family of patent applications that we have licensed from MGH and Harvard is directed to methods and compositions for enhancing the bioenergetic status in female germline cells. This family includes two pending U.S. non-provisional patent application, and sixteen counterpart applications that are pending with patent and trademark offices outside of the United States. Any patents claiming priority to the underlying provisional application would expire in April 2032. We believe that patents issuing from this family may provide protection for aspects of the AUGMENT procedure, as well as culture media that we may develop in the future. 

In addition to the patent portfolio that we have exclusively licensed from MGH, we have one issued U.S. patent and one pending U.S. non-provisional patent application, with all issued patents expiring in June 2026. We believe that patents issuing from this family may provide protection for an alternative method of producing healthy eggs. 

Trade Secrets 

In addition to patents, we expect to rely on trade secrets and know-how to develop and maintain our competitive positions. For example, significant aspects of the AUGMENT treatment are based on unpatented trade secrets and know-how. Trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and contractors. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data and trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems. While we have confidence in these individuals, organizations and systems, agreements or security measures may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our trade secrets and know-how may otherwise become known or may be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our consultants, contractors or collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 

Exclusive License Agreement with Massachusetts General Hospital 

In June 2011, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with MGH under which we acquired an exclusive, worldwide license to specified patent rights owned by MGH and a non-exclusive license under specified know-how disclosed to us under the agreement by MGH which relates to the licensed patent rights. In September 2011, we amended this agreement to include additional patent rights owned by Harvard for which MGH has the right to grant us a license and we have subsequently amended it to broaden our license field. Under the agreement, as amended, we acquired an exclusive, royalty-bearing, worldwide license under the licensed patent rights to make, use and sell products covered by the licensed patent rights or which employ or are based on the licensed know-how and to develop and perform services covered by the licensed patent rights or which employ or are based on the licensed know-how. The license under MGH-owned patent rights and know-how is for human female fertility, the treatment or prevention of inherited (including mitochondrial) diseases or defects in all animals, including humans, assisted and/or artificial reproductive technology in all non-human animals, and the artificial creation of food, research animals and/or animal products; and the license under the MGH and Harvard co-owned patent right is for ex-vivo &#32;human female fertility treatments. 

Under the agreement, as amended, we agreed to pay MGH upfront license fees and reimbursed patent related fees and costs incurred by MGH and Harvard totaling approximately $0.4 million in the aggregate. We also agreed to pay MGH annual license fees, annual maintenance fees, milestone payments, royalties as a percentage of net sales and a percentage of sublicense income that we receive. Annual license fees are creditable against royalties. Annual maintenance fees are due beginning in the third year of the agreement and are not creditable against royalties. Milestone payments of up to an aggregate of approximately $10.7 million are triggered upon the achievement of specified developmental and commercialization milestones and are not creditable against royalties. Additionally, we paid $0.5 million in connection with each of our March 2014 and January 2015 public offerings. The royalty rate is in the low single digits as a percentage of net sales. Net sales do not include amounts billed to patients by clinics and medical practices that use licensed products or perform licensed services for such patients, but do include the amounts paid to us by such clinics and medical practices. 

If we are required to pay royalties to a third party in consideration of a license or similar right in order to avoid potential infringement of third party patent rights, and the royalty payable to such third party is greater than one percent of net sales, then we may deduct up to 50% of the amounts paid to such third party that are in excess of one percent of net sales, subject to specified limitations, from the payments that we owe to MGH for such licensed product or licensed service; provided, however that the stacking provision does not apply to assisted and/or artificial reproductive technology in all non-human animals. 

We are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize licensed products and licensed services under the agreement. In particular, we are required to achieve specified development and commercialization milestones in certain countries by specified dates. 

MGH and Harvard retain the right to, and may grant licenses to other academic, government and non-profit institutions for the right to practice the licensed patent rights within the licensed fields for research and educational purposes only. 

We have the right to terminate the agreement for any reason upon at least 90 days' prior written notice. MGH has the right to terminate the agreement if we fail, subject to a specified cure period, to pay any amounts due and payable under the agreement to MGH, we otherwise materially breach the agreement and fail to cure such breach within a specified cure period, we fail to maintain insurance coverage as required under the agreement, we enter bankruptcy proceedings or make an assignment for the benefit of our creditors, or we or a sublicensee challenges the licensed patent rights in a legal or administrative proceeding. The agreement otherwise terminates upon the expiration or abandonment of all licensed patents and patent applications. 

Collaboration with Intrexon to Accelerate Development of OvaTure 

In December 2013, we entered into a collaboration agreement (the "OvaTure Collaboration") with Intrexon governing the use of Intrexon's synthetic biology technology platform for the accelerated development of our OvaTure platform. The OvaTure Collaboration provides that Intrexon will deliver laboratory and animal data to support OvaTure development. Upon the delivery of laboratory and animal data, we will incur an obligation to pay Intrexon a mid-single digit royalty on net sales of any OvaTure fertility treatments in the future, and the exact royalty will depend upon whether Intrexon completes the milestone by the targeted deadline of two years after technology transfer. 

As a technology access fee, we (1) issued Intrexon 273,224 shares of our common stock worth approximately $2.5 million on the date of issuance upon the execution of the OvaTure Collaboration in December 2013, and (2) paid Intrexon $2.5 million cash in December 2014. We also agreed to a commercial milestone payment three months after the first commercial sale of OvaTure. The shares issued to Intrexon are subject to "piggy-back" registration rights that entitle Intrexon, unless waived, to have the shares included in any new registration statement filed in connection with an underwritten public offering, subject to underwriter cutback. 

We may terminate the OvaTure Collaboration after ninety (90) days prior written notice, and either party may terminate after a material breach by the other party that is not cured within sixty (60) days. We may assign the OvaTure Collaboration in the event of a change of control transaction. In the event that we pursue the OvaTure program on its own after terminating the OvaTure Collaboration, the royalty will apply if Intrexon intellectual property is utilized. 

OvaXon Joint Venture with Intrexon 

In December 2013, we also entered into a joint venture with Intrexon to leverage Intrexon's synthetic biology technology platform and our technology relating to EggPC cells to pursue the development of potential fertility treatments within fields-of-use defined under the joint venture, which include prevention of genetic disease and animal health. The joint venture anticipates initially targeting the animal health market, which is estimated to grow to $19 billion by 2018 according to consensus estimates for animal divisions of Elanco, Merck, Sanofi, and Zoetis. 

We and Intrexon formed OvaXon, LLC ("OvaXon") to conduct the joint venture. Each party contributed $1.5 million to OvaXon and each has a 50% equity interest, with research and development costs and profits to be split accordingly. OvaXon is governed by a board of managers, which will have equal representation by OvaScience and Intrexon. Pursuant to an Intellectual Property License between OvaScience and OvaXon, we licensed our technology in the field of the joint venture to OvaXon, and OvaXon entered into a collaboration agreement with Intrexon to develop our technology in the field utilizing Intrexon's synthetic biology platform. 

We recorded our $1.5 million investment in OvaXon as an equity method investment in December 2013. We made additional contributions of $1.5 million in 2015. As of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , OvaXon has incurred expense in excess of the initial investment. The additional expense incurred is included within accrued expenses on our balance sheet, as we have committed to provide additional funding in the future. Each party contributed an additional $0.8 million in January 2016. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. There are a number of pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and research organizations actively engaged in research and development of potential fertility treatments. Some of these treatments, similar to our current and future fertility treatments, are designed to address the shortcomings of IVF. 

In particular, we are aware of a number of companies and laboratories that are currently developing potential fertility treatments intended to identify high quality embryos for use in IVF and a university study of the transfer of granulosa cell mitochondria into eggs. We are also aware of a university study of induced pluripotent stem cells, or iPS, showing that iPS cells can be generated from somatic cells and programmed to become differentiated cells, which can include germline cells such as oocytes. However, we believe it is unlikely this approach would have clinical applications because these are non-germline, pluripotent cells. Novocellus Ltd. is developing an embryo viability test, using culture media, to aid in the selection of embryos used in IVF. We believe that culture media is complementary to our fertility treatment options. FertiliTech and Auxogyn, Inc. are developing hardware and software that analyzes embryo development against cell division timing parameters to help identify the highest quality embryo within a group of embryos. If successfully developed, these products could improve outcomes and alleviate some of the other shortcomings of traditional IVF, thereby decreasing the need for our potential fertility treatments. Fertility Focus, along with strategic partner Norgenix, are developing a fertiloscope for the early diagnosis of, and immediate corrective surgery for, the physical causes of infertility. Molecular diagnostic companies like Reprogenetics are developing novel preimplantation genetic diagnosis and screening methods to detect chromosomal and genetic disorders of embryos prior to transfer back to the women. Testing embryos in this manner may increase the likelihood of pregnancy, reduce the chances of pregnancy loss, and improve the odds of delivery. 

At this time, we cannot evaluate how our potential fertility treatments, if successfully developed and commercialized, would compare technologically, clinically or commercially to any other potential products being developed or to be marketed by competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively. Our competitors may develop and commercialize new technologies before we do, allowing them to offer products, services or solutions that are superior to those that we may offer or that establish market positions before the time, if any, at which we are able to bring potential fertility treatments to the market. Many of our competitors, either alone or with their strategic partners, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of product candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in developing, commercializing and achieving widespread market acceptance. Our competitors' products may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than any treatment we may commercialize and may render our potential fertility treatments obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing any of our potential fertility treatments. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new treatments enter the market and advanced technologies become available. 

For the AUGMENT treatment and OvaPrime treatment, our ability to gain market acceptance will depend on, among other things, our ability to demonstrate improved IVF success rates, thereby reducing the number of cycles required to produce a live birth, and our ability to reduce multiple births. Our ability to gain market acceptance for the OvaTure treatment, if and when introduced, will depend on our ability to demonstrate increased pregnancy and live birth rates as compared to traditional IVF and other infertility treatments, reduced multiple births and a reduction in the need for hormonal hyperstimulation for egg retrieval. We anticipate that price also will be an important competitive factor for all our fertility treatment options. At this time, we cannot evaluate how our potential fertility treatments, if successfully developed and commercialized, would compare technologically, clinically or commercially to any other potential products being developed or to be marketed by competitors. 

Government Regulation 

Government authorities around the world regulate, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, quality, approval, distribution, labeling, packaging, storage, record keeping, sale, marketing, import, export and promotion of drugs, biologics and medical devices, as well as other types of medical products and procedures. Most countries also have rules relating to procurement and use of human tissues or cells, and rules relating to assisted human reproduction. Although the specific rules vary country by country, in general different levels of regulation are applicable depending on the nature of the treatment, the level of risk involved, and/or its intended uses. Some classes of products (e.g., treatments regulated as drugs or biologics in the United States, or treatments regulated as medicinal products in the EU) require extensive preclinical testing, clearance to conduct clinical trials, successful completion of clinical trials, and submission and approval of an application for marketing authorization before the therapy can be commercially marketed. Such products also are subject to significant post-marketing requirements. 

Many countries also specify various classes of therapies that are exempt from the above-mentioned pre-market review and approval requirements. In these jurisdictions, the development and marketing of such therapies generally does not require the conduct of clinical trials or pre-review and approval of a marketing application by the relevant regulatory authority. In addition, although many such therapies are still subject to post-marketing requirements, these requirements typically are substantially reduced as compared to the requirements for drugs, biologics, medicinal products or medical devices. 

We are focusing our commercialization efforts for the AUGMENT treatment in countries in which we believe it does not not require pre-review and approval of an application for marketing authorization by the relevant regulatory authorities. Therefore, we have initially elected to launch the AUGMENT treatment commercially in several countries outside of the United States. In each of these countries, we have done so based on our determination that the AUGMENT treatment meets the requirements of a class of products exempt from pre-market review and approval as a drug, biologic, medicinal product or medical device under applicable laws and regulations. As a result, we have not completed clinical trials of the AUGMENT treatment, nor have we submitted applications for marketing authorization, in those countries. Consistent with this strategy, we currently intend to expand the launch of the AUGMENT treatment into additional countries outside of the United States that we also believe do not require pre-market review and approval. We also plan to introduce the OvaPrime treatment following the current non-commercial preceptorship training program, in select clinics in countries outside of the United States based on the same determination. We are still developing the OvaTure treatment, and have not yet made a judgment on the proper clinical path for that treatment. 

There can be no assurance that regulatory authorities in countries where we have introduced, or will introduce, the AUGMENT treatment or the OvaPrime treatment will agree with our determinations that these fertility treatments are exempt from pre-market review and approval as a drug, biologic, medicinal product or medical device. If the regulatory authorities in a given country disagrees with our determination, then we likely will be required to cease commercial marketing of that fertility treatment in that country, and may not be able to resume commercial marketing without first demonstrating safety and efficacy through clinical trials, submitting an application for marketing authorization, and receiving approval from the relevant regulatory authorities. In these circumstances, we are likely to be significantly delayed in our ability to commercialize our fertility treatments in such country, or we may elect to cease our commercialization activities in that country altogether. From time to time, we engage in discussions regarding the AUGMENT treatment and our potential fertility treatments with regulatory authorities in certain of the countries in which we have launched or plan to introduce our fertility treatments. We expect to have ongoing dialogue with these regulatory authorities. 

With regard to the United States, we commenced a clinical study of the AUGMENT treatment in the United States in 2012. We did so without an IND on the basis of our determination that the AUGMENT treatment was exempt from pre-market review and approval in the United States and did not require an IND to conduct clinical testing. In 2013, however, we received an "untitled" letter from the FDA questioning our determination of exempt status and advising us to file an IND for the potential fertility treatment. We have since discontinued our clinical study and are focused on commercializing our fertility treatments outside of the United States. We may re-examine our strategy with the United States after we have gained more experience with our fertility treatments. 

European Union Requirements 

Regulation of Medicinal Products 

If the authorities in certain EU countries were to determine that any of our potential treatments are subject to regulation as medicinal products, including as advanced therapy medicinal products, they would be subject to extensive pre- and post-market regulation by regulatory authorities at both the EU and national levels. Advanced therapy medicinal products include tissue engineered products, which are cells or tissues that have undergone substantial manipulation and that are administered to human beings in order to regenerate, repair or replace a human tissue. 

Clinical Trials. Clinical trials of medicinal products in the EU must be conducted in accordance with EU and national regulations and the International Conference on Harmonization, or ICH, guidelines on Good Clinical Practices, or GCP. Prior to commencing a clinical trial, the sponsor must obtain a clinical trial authorization from the competent authority, and a positive opinion from an independent ethics committee. Currently, clinical trial authorization applications must be submitted to the competent authority in each EU member state in which the trial will be conducted. Under the new Regulation on Clinical Trials, which is expected to take effect in October 2018, there will be a centralized application procedure where one national authority takes the lead in reviewing the application and the other national authorities have only a limited involvement. Any substantial changes to the trial protocol or other information submitted with the clinical trial applications must be notified to or approved by the relevant competent authorities and ethics committees. 

During the development of a medicinal product, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, and national medicines regulators within the EU provide the opportunity for dialogue and guidance on the development program. At the EMA level, this is usually done in the form of scientific advice, which is given by the Scientific Advice Working Party of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP. A fee is incurred with each scientific advice procedure. Advice from the EMA is typically provided based on questions concerning, for example, quality (chemistry, manufacturing and controls testing), nonclinical testing and clinical studies, and pharmacovigilance plans and risk-management programs. Advice is not legally binding with regard to any future marketing authorization application of the product concerned. To date, we have not initiated any scientific advice procedures or other discussions with the EMA or any national regulatory authorities in the EU. 

Marketing Authorizations. After completion of the required clinical testing, we must obtain a marketing authorization before we may place a medicinal product on the market in the EU. There are various application procedures available, depending on the type of product involved. All application procedures require an application in the common technical document, or CTD, format, which includes the submission of detailed information about the manufacturing and quality of the product, and non-clinical and clinical trial information. There is an increasing trend in the EU towards greater transparency and, while the manufacturing or quality information is currently generally protected as confidential information, the EMA and national regulatory authorities are now liable to disclose much of the non-clinical and clinical information in marketing authorization dossiers, including the full clinical study reports, in response to freedom of information requests after the marketing authorization has been granted. Clinical study reports will also be posted on the EMA's website following the grant, denial or withdrawal of a marketing authorization application, subject to procedures for limited redactions and protection against unfair commercial use. 

The centralized procedure gives rise to marketing authorizations that are valid throughout the EU and, by extension (after national implementing decisions), in Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, which, together with the EU member states, comprise the European Economic Area, or EEA. Applicants file marketing authorization applications with the EMA, but the marketing authorization itself is granted by the European Commission. The centralized procedure is compulsory for medicinal products that (1) are derived from biotechnology processes, (2) contain a new active substance (approved after November 20, 2005) indicated for the treatment of certain diseases, (3) are orphan medicinal products or (4) are advanced therapy medicinal products, such as cell therapy medicines. For medicines that do not fall within these categories, an applicant may voluntarily submit an application for a centralized marketing authorization to the EMA, as long as the CHMP agrees that (i) the medicine concerned contains a new active substance (approved after November 20, 2005), (ii) the medicine is a significant therapeutic, scientific, or technical innovation, or (iii) if its authorization under the centralized procedure would be in the interest of public health. 

For those medicinal products for which the centralized procedure is not available, the applicant must submit marketing authorization applications to the national medicines regulators through one of three procedures: (1) a national procedure, which results in a marketing authorization in a single EU member state; (2) the decentralized procedure, in which applications are submitted simultaneously in two or more EU member states; and (3) the mutual recognition procedure, which must be used if the product has already been authorized in at least one other EU member state, and in which the EU member states are required to grant an authorization recognizing the existing authorization in the other EU member state, unless they identify a serious risk to public health. 

The EU medicines rules expressly permit the member states to adopt national legislation prohibiting or restricting the sale, supply or use of any medicinal product containing, consisting of or derived from a specific type of human or animal cell, such as embryonic stem cells. Thus, it is possible that the national laws in certain EU member states may prohibit or restrict us from commercializing our fertility treatments, even if they have been granted an EU marketing authorization. 

Data Exclusivity. Marketing authorization applications for generic medicinal products do not need to include the results of pre-clinical and clinical trials, but instead can refer to the data included in the marketing authorization of a reference product for which regulatory data exclusivity has expired. If a marketing authorization is granted for a medicinal product containing a new active substance, that product benefits from eight years of data exclusivity, during which generic marketing authorization applications referring to the data of that product may not be accepted by the regulatory authorities, and a further two years of 

market exclusivity, during which such generic products may not be placed on the market. The two-year period may be extended to three years if during the first eight years a new therapeutic indication with significant clinical benefit over existing therapies is approved. 

There is a special regime for biosimilars, or biological medicinal products that are similar to a reference medicinal product but that do not meet the definition of a generic medicinal product, for example, because of differences in raw materials or manufacturing processes. For such products, the results of appropriate pre-clinical or clinical trials must be provided, and guidelines from the EMA detail the type of quantity of supplementary data to be provided for different types of biological product. There are no such guidelines for complex biological products, such as gene or cell therapy medicinal products, and so it is unlikely that biosimilars of those products will currently be approved in the EU. However, guidance from the EMA states that they will be considered in the future in light of the scientific knowledge and regulatory experience gained at the time. 

Post-Approval Controls. The holder of a marketing authorization must establish and maintain a pharmacovigilance system and appoint an individual qualified person for pharmacovigilance, or QPPV, who is responsible for oversight of that system. Key obligations include expedited reporting of suspected serious adverse reactions and submission of periodic safety update reports, or PSURs. 

All new marketing authorization applications must include a risk management plan, or RMP, describing the risk management system that the company will put in place and documenting measures to prevent or minimize the risks associated with the product. The regulatory authorities may also impose specific obligations as a condition of the marketing authorization. Such risk-minimization measures or post-authorization obligations may include additional safety monitoring, more frequent submission of PSURs, or the conduct of additional clinical trials or post-authorization safety studies. Risk management plans and PSURs are routinely available to third parties requesting access, subject to limited redactions. 

All advertising and promotional activities for the product must be consistent with the approved summary of product characteristics, and therefore all off-label promotion is prohibited. Direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription medicines is also prohibited in the EU. Although general requirements for advertising and promotion of medicinal products are established under EU directives, the details are governed by regulations in each member state and can differ from one country to another. 

Medicinal products may only be manufactured in the EU, or imported into the EU from another country, by the holder of a manufacturing authorization from the competent national authority. The manufacturer or importer must have a qualified person, or QP, who is responsible for certifying that each batch of product has been manufactured in accordance with EU standards of good manufacturing practice, or GMP, before releasing the product for commercial distribution in the EU or for use in a clinical trial. Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by the competent authorities for compliance with GMP. 

Regulation of Medical Devices 

If European regulatory authorities were to determine that any of our potential treatments are subject to regulation as a medical device, the following requirements would apply. A medical device may be placed on the market within the EEA if it conforms to certain "essential requirements". These are general in nature and broad in scope. The most fundamental essential requirement, for example, is that a device must be designed and manufactured in such a way that it will not compromise the clinical condition or safety of patients, or the safety and health of users or other persons. Other essential requirements include that the device must achieve the performances intended by the manufacturer and be designed, manufactured and packaged in a suitable manner, and any undesirable side effect must constitute an acceptable risk when weighed against the performances intended. 

The manufacturer is obliged to demonstrate that the device conforms to the relevant essential requirements through a conformity assessment procedure. The nature of the assessment depends upon the classification of the device. The classification rules are mainly based on three criteria: the length of time the device is in contact with the body, the degree of invasiveness, and the extent to which the device affects the anatomy. Class I (low risk) devices are those that do not enter or interact with the body. Class IIa and IIb (medium risk) devices are invasive or implantable or interact with the body. Class III (high risk) devices are those that affect the vital organs. 

Conformity assessment procedures for all but the lowest risk classification of device involve a notified body. Notified bodies are entities licensed to provide independent certification of certain classes of medical device. Most notified bodies are private commercial entities, but some are state bodies and others are structured as private non-profit organizations. 

EU regulatory bodies are not involved in the pre-market approval of medical devices, with only very limited exceptions (such as medical devices that incorporate a medicinal product as an ancillary substance). The onus of ensuring a device is safe enough to be placed on the market is ultimately the responsibility of the manufacturer and the notified body. 

As part of the conformity assessment procedure, the manufacturer will need to conduct a clinical evaluation of the device. This clinical evaluation may consist of an analysis of the scientific literature relating to similar devices, new clinical investigations of the device, or a combination of the two. For class III devices, the conduct of clinical investigations is mandatory. Such studies must adhere to the Declaration of Helsinki, which requires appropriate ethics committee approval of the study. 

Once the appropriate conformity assessment procedure for a medical device has been completed, the manufacturer must draw up a written declaration of conformity and affix the CE mark to the device. The device can then be marketed throughout the EEA. 

Manufacturers must put in place a device vigilance system that allows them to review relevant post-marketing experience and take corrective actions where necessary. As part of that system, manufacturers must report to the competent regulatory authorities any adverse incident related to a medical device that leads or might lead, directly or indirectly, to the death of a patient, user or other person or to a serious deterioration in their state of health. They must also report any recalls or other field safety corrective actions. 

Human Cells and Tissues 

Human cells and tissues that are intended for human applications but that do not fall within the scope of rules governing medicinal products or medical devices are not subject to pre-market review and approval, nor do they require extensive preclinical and clinical testing. However, there are EU rules governing the donation, procurement, testing and storage of human cells and tissues intended for human application, whether or not they are advanced therapy medicinal products. These rules also cover the processing, preservation and distribution of human cell and tissues that are not advanced therapy medicinal products. Establishments that conduct such activities must be licensed and are subject to inspection by regulatory authorities. Such establishments must implement appropriate quality systems and maintain appropriate records to ensure that cells and tissues can be traced from the donor to the recipient and vice versa. There are also requirements to report serious adverse events and reactions linked to the quality and safety of cells and tissues. More detailed rules may exist at the national level. 

IVF Treatment 

While the procurement, processing and distribution of gametes and embryos for use in IVF and other assisted reproduction treatments falls within the scope of the EU rules governing human cells and tissues, there are no harmonized EU requirements for the performance of IVF and other medical treatments. Instead, the practice of medicine is regulated entirely at the national level in the individual member states. In some EU countries, there are specific regulatory authorities, such as the United Kingdom&#8217;s HFEA, which license IVF facilities and determine what procedures such establishments may perform. In other EU countries, the national health authority may review or delegate the review of a fertility treatment to an industry self-regulatory body, an institutional review board, or other body. For example, the study of the AUGMENT treatment that we are working on with the IVI Group, our partner clinic in Spain, was approved by La Comisi&#243;n Nacional de Reproducci&#243;n Humana Asistida, or CNRHA. 

We believe that neither the AUGMENT treatment nor, when introduced and available, the OvaPrime treatment are subject to regulation as a medicinal product or a medical device in the EU, and instead is subject to the less rigorous regulations that apply to use of human cells and tissues that are intended for human applications and to any national rules that govern IVF treatment. While we are proceeding with the introduction of the AUGMENT treatment into certain countries within the EU on this basis, there is a risk that European or national regulatory authorities may reach a different conclusion. 

United States Requirements 

Although we are not currently in discussions with the FDA, we may seek to introduce any of our current or potential fertility treatments into the United States in the future. The FDA regulates human cell, tissue, or cellular or tissue-based products ("HCT/Ps") according to a tiered, risk-based approach. Higher risk HCT/Ps are generally regulated as biological products under the Public Health Service Act, or PHSA, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implementing regulations. Section 351 of the PHSA prohibits the introduction of a biological product into interstate commerce without an FDA-approved application for marketing authorization under that section. For pioneer products, the typical application under section 351 of the PHSA is the biologics license application, or BLA. 

Biological products that are subject to section 351 of the PHSA are subject to significant pre and post-market regulation. Before such products may be marketed in the United States, the manufacturer must conduct extensive preclinical testing, submit an investigational new drug application ("IND") to FDA before clinical testing can begin, conduct extensive clinical testing, and submit and receive FDA approval of a BLA. After approval, these products are subject to significant requirements relating to, among other things, manufacturing, adverse event reporting, advertising and promotion, distribution, packaging, labeling, import/export, and recordkeeping. 

Lower risk HCT/Ps, however, are regulated solely under section 361 of the PHSA, which gives FDA authority to promulgate regulations to prevent the spread of communicable diseases. Such products are referred to as "361 HCT/Ps." The FDA will regulate an HCT/P as a 361 HCT/P if it meets all of the following criteria: 

(1) 

the HCT/P is minimally manipulated, 

(2) 

the HCT/P is intended for homologous use only, as reflected by the labeling, advertising, or other indications of the manufacturer's objective intent, 

(3) 

the manufacture of the HCT/P does not involve the combination of the cells or tissues with another article, with a few exceptions, and 

(4) 

either: 

&#8226; 

the HCT/P does not have a systemic effect and is not dependent upon the metabolic activity of living cells for its primary function, or 

&#8226; 

the HCT/P has a systemic effect or is dependent upon the metabolic activity of living cells for its primary function and 

(a) 

is for autologous use, 

(b) 

is for allogeneic use in a first or second degree blood relative, or 

(c) 

is for reproductive use. 

HCT/Ps that meet all of these requirements are deemed 361 HCT/Ps and are regulated exclusively under section 361 of the PHSA and the FDA's implementing regulations at 21 C.F.R. Part 1271. These regulations impose requirements for registration and listing, donor screening and testing, and good tissue practices, among other things. They do not, however, impose the IND requirements or the pre-market review and approval requirements described above for biologics regulated under section 351 of the PHSA. 

Other HCT/Ps are regulated neither as 351 biologics, nor 361 HCT/Ps. For example, certain HCT/Ps that are removed from a donor and returned to the same donor during a single surgical procedure are exempted from both the 351 biologics requirements and the 361 HCT/P requirements. Other procedures may involve human cellular or tissue based products but may be considered to fall into the category of "practice of medicine" and therefore are not regulated by FDA. 

It is not certain how FDA would regulate any of our current or potential fertility treatments were we to seek to introduce them into the United States. As discussed above, in 2012 we commenced a clinical study of the AUGMENT treatment in the United States, but subsequently received from the FDA an "untitled" letter questioning the status of the AUGMENT treatment as a 361 HCT/P, and advising us to file an IND for the potential fertility treatment, following which we suspended our commercialization efforts in the United States. We continue to believe that the AUGMENT treatment meets the criteria for regulation as a 361 HCT/P and plan to engage the agency in further discussions after we have gained more extensive experience with the AUGMENT treatment through use outside of the United States. There is no guarantee, however, that FDA will ultimately agree with our classification of the AUGMENT treatment or any of our potential fertility treatments. 

Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Regulations 

Both in and outside of the United States, our activities may be subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA or EMA. In the United States, this likely includes the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, such as the Office of Inspector General, and the U.S. Department of Justice and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the Department of Justice, as well as state and local governments, and ex-US equivalents. Our operations in the relevant jurisdictions must comply with all of these applicable requirements or we may be unable to conduct our business or may face civil or criminal sanctions. 

We are also subject to varying anti-corruption laws that exist both in the United States, where we are based, and the various countries in which we operate or otherwise offer our fertility treatments. For example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, or authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA are enforced primarily by the U.S. Department of Justice. The SEC is 

involved with enforcement of the books and records provisions of the FCPA. Failure to comply with the FCPA or similar laws in other countries where we operate could subject us to significant penalties that could have a material impact on our business. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

We believe that very few third party payors, either in the EU, the United States or other countries, including national health services and government funded insurance programs as well as private payors, will agree to cover and reimburse for the AUGMENT treatment, the OvaPrime treatment, the OvaTure treatment or other potential fertility treatments we may attempt to commercialize. Thus, it is likely that IVF clinics and physicians will be able to use the AUGMENT treatment, the OvaPrime treatment, the OvaTure treatment and our other potential fertility treatments only if the patient can afford and is willing to pay for our treatment out of pocket. The cost of the AUGMENT treatment, the OvaPrime treatment, the OvaTure treatment, and our other potential fertility treatments may be beyond the means of many patients. 

Third party payors include government health administrative authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a treatment or procedure may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the treatment or procedure. Even if third party payors were to provide some minimal level of coverage and reimbursement for the AUGMENT treatment, the OvaPrime treatment, the OvaTure treatment or our other potential fertility treatments, such third party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness, in addition to the safety and efficacy, of medical products and procedures. 

In the EU and elsewhere, governments influence the price of medical products and procedures through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part of consumers' medical costs. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which treatments or procedures may be marketed only after a reimbursement price has been agreed upon. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of our particular treatments or procedures to currently available therapies. Other countries allow medical companies to fix their own prices, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on healthcare costs has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new treatments and procedures. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 87 full-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Our Corporate Information 

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in April 2011 under the name Ovastem, Inc. and changed our name to OvaScience, Inc. in May 2011. Our principal executive offices are located at 9 Fourth Avenue, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451, and our telephone number is (617) 500-2802. Our website address is www.ovascience.com. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have included our website address in this Annual Report solely as an inactive textual reference. 

Available Information 

You may obtain free copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, on the Investors section of our website at www.ovascience.com or by contacting our Corporate Communications department at (617) 500-2802. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report and you should not consider information provided on our website to be part of this report. 

