 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Formation 

Cole Credit Property Trust IV, Inc. (the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; or &#8220;us&#8221;) is a Maryland corporation that was formed on July 27, 2010, our date of inception, which has elected to be taxed, and currently qualifies, as a real estate investment trust (&#8220;REIT&#8221;) for federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2012. We are the sole general partner of and own, directly or indirectly, 100% of the partnership interests in Cole Operating Partnership IV, LP, a Delaware limited partnership (&#8220;CCPT IV OP&#8221;). We are externally managed by Cole REIT Advisors IV, LLC (&#8220;CR IV Advisors&#8221;), an affiliate of the Company&#8217;s sponsor, Cole Capital &#174; , which is a trade name used to refer to a group of affiliated entities directly or indirectly controlled by VEREIT, Inc. (&#8220;VEREIT&#8221;), a widely-held public company whose shares of common stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: VER). VEREIT indirectly owns and/or controls our external advisor, CR IV Advisors, the dealer manager for our Offering (as defined below), Cole Capital Corporation (&#8220;CCC&#8221;), our property manager, CREI Advisors, LLC (&#8220;CREI Advisors&#8221;), and our sponsor, Cole Capital. 

Cole Capital has sponsored various real estate investment programs. CR IV Advisors, pursuant to an advisory agreement with us, is responsible for managing our affairs on a day-to-day basis and for identifying and making acquisitions and investments on our behalf. Pursuant to the advisory agreement, CR IV Advisors has fiduciary obligations to us and our stockholders. Our charter provides that our independent directors are responsible for reviewing the performance of CR IV Advisors and determining whether the compensation paid to CR IV Advisors and its affiliates is reasonable. The advisory agreement with CR IV Advisors has a term that is reconsidered for renewal on an annual basis by our board of directors. 

Pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-11 filed under the Securities Act (Registration No. 333-169533) and declared effective by the SEC on January 26, 2012, we commenced our initial public offering on a &#8220;best efforts&#8221; basis of up to a maximum of $2.975 billion &#32;in shares of common stock. On November 25, 2013 , we reallocated $400.0 million &#32;in shares from our distribution reinvestment plan (the &#8220;DRIP&#8221;) to the primary offering, and on February 18, 2014 , we reallocated an additional $23.0 million &#32;in shares from the DRIP to the primary offering. As a result of these reallocations, the initial public offering offered up to a maximum of approximately 292.3 million &#32;shares of our common stock at a price of $10.00 &#32;per share, and up to approximately 5.5 million &#32;additional shares pursuant to the DRIP under which our stockholders could have elected to have distributions reinvested in additional shares of common stock at a price of $9.50 &#32;per share (the &#8220;Offering&#8221;). 

We terminated the Offering on April 4, 2014. At the completion of the Offering, a total of approximately 297.4 million shares of common stock had been issued, including approximately 292.3 &#32;million shares of common stock sold to the public pursuant to the primary portion of the Offering and approximately 5.1 million &#32;shares of common stock sold pursuant to the DRIP. 

In addition, we registered 26.0 million shares of common stock under the DRIP pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 under the Securities Act (Registration No. 333-192958) (the &#8220;DRIP Offering&#8221; and collectively with the Offering, the &#8220;Offerings&#8221;), which was filed with the SEC on December 19, 2013 and automatically became effective with the SEC upon filing. We will continue to issue shares of common stock under the DRIP Offering. As of December 31, 2015 , we had issued approximately 317.9 million &#32;shares of our common stock in the Offerings for gross offering proceeds of $3.2 billion &#32;before organization and offering costs, selling commissions and dealer manager fees of $306.0 million . 

We invest primarily in income-producing necessity retail properties that are single-tenant or multi-tenant &#8220;power centers,&#8221; which are leased to national and regional creditworthy tenants under long-term net leases, and are strategically located throughout the United States and U.S. protectorates. We consider necessity retail properties to be properties leased to retail tenants that attract consumers for everyday needs, such as pharmacies, home improvement stores, national superstores, restaurants and regional retailers. Power centers are multi-tenant properties that are anchored by one or more large national, regional or local retailers. We expect that our retail properties typically will be subject to long-term triple-net or double-net leases, which means the tenant will be obligated to pay for most of the expenses of maintaining the property. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned 871 &#32;properties, comprising 25.2 million &#32;rentable square feet of commercial space located in 45 &#32;states. As of December 31, 2015 , the rentable space at these properties was 98.5% &#32;leased. In addition, through an unconsolidated joint venture arrangement, we had an interest in one &#32;property comprising 176,000 &#32;rentable square feet of commercial space as of December 31, 2015 . 

Investment Objectives and Policies 

Our primary investment objectives are: 

&#8226; 

to acquire quality commercial real estate properties, net leased under long-term leases to creditworthy tenants, which provide current operating cash flow; 

&#8226; 

to provide reasonably stable, current income for stockholders through the payment of cash distributions; and 

&#8226; 

to provide the opportunity to participate in capital appreciation in the value of our investments. 

Our charter requires that our independent directors review our investment policies, described below, at least annually to determine that our policies are in the best interests of our stockholders. Except to the extent that investment policies and limitations are included in our charter, our board of directors may revise our investment policies without the approval of our stockholders. Investment policies that are provided in our charter may only be amended by a vote of stockholders holding a majority of our outstanding shares, unless the amendments do not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of our stockholders. 

Acquisition and Investment Policies 

Types of Real Estate Investments 

We invest primarily in income-producing necessity retail properties that are single-tenant or multi-tenant &#8220;power centers,&#8221; which are leased to national and regional creditworthy tenants under long-term net leases, and are strategically located throughout the United States and U.S. protectorates. We consider necessity retail properties to be properties leased to retail tenants that attract consumers for everyday needs, such as pharmacies, home improvement stores, national superstores, restaurants and regional retailers. Power centers are multi-tenant properties that are anchored by one or more large national, regional or local retailers. 

For over three decades, our sponsor, Cole Capital, has developed and utilized this investment approach in acquiring and managing core commercial real estate assets primarily in the retail sector, but also in the office and industrial sectors as well. We believe that our sponsor&#8217;s experience in assembling real estate portfolios, which principally focus on national and regional creditworthy tenants subject to long-term leases, provides us with a competitive advantage. In addition, our sponsor has built a business of approximately 350 employees who are experienced in the various aspects of acquiring, financing and managing commercial real estate, and we believe that our access to these resources provides us with a competitive advantage. 

We have and may continue to invest in other income-producing properties, such as office and industrial properties, which may share certain core characteristics with our retail investments, such as a principal creditworthy tenant, a long-term net lease, and a strategic location. We believe investments in these types of office and industrial properties are consistent with our goal of providing investors with a stable stream of current income and an opportunity for capital appreciation. 

Many of our properties are, and we anticipate future properties will be, leased to tenants in the chain or franchise retail industry, including, but not limited to, convenience stores, drug stores and restaurant properties, as well as leased to large national retailers as stand alone properties or as part of so-called &#8220;power centers,&#8221; which are anchored by national, regional or local retailers. CR IV Advisors will monitor industry trends and identify properties on our behalf that serve to provide a favorable return balanced with risk. Our management primarily targets regional or national name brand retail businesses with established track records. We generally intend to hold each property for a period in excess of seven years. 

We believe that our general focus on the acquisition of a large number of single-tenant and multi-tenant necessity retail properties net leased to creditworthy tenants presents lower investment risks and greater stability than other sectors of today&#8217;s commercial real estate market. By acquiring a large number of single-tenant and multi-tenant retail properties, we believe that lower than expected results of operations from one or a few investments will not necessarily preclude our ability to realize our investment objective of cash flow from our overall portfolio. We believe this approach can result in less risk to investors than an investment approach that targets other asset classes. In addition, we believe that retail properties under long-term triple-net and double-net leases offer a distinct investment advantage since these properties generally require less management and operating capital, have less recurring tenant turnover and, with respect to single-tenant properties, often offer superior locations that are less dependent on the financial stability of adjoining tenants. In addition, since we acquire properties that are geographically diverse, we expect to minimize the potential adverse impact of economic slow downs or downturns in local markets. Our management believes that a portfolio consisting of both freestanding, single-tenant retail properties and multi-tenant retail properties anchored by large national, regional or local retailers will enhance our liquidity opportunities for investors by making the sale of individual properties, multiple properties or our investment portfolio as a whole attractive to institutional investors and by making a possible listing of our shares attractive to the public investment community. 

To the extent feasible, we seek to achieve a well-balanced portfolio diversified by geographic location, age and lease maturities of the various properties. We pursue properties leased to tenants representing a variety of retail industries to avoid concentration in any one industry. We also are diversified between national, regional and local brands. We generally target properties with lease terms in excess of ten years. We have acquired and may continue to acquire properties with shorter lease terms if the property is in an attractive location, is difficult to replace, or has other significant favorable attributes. We expect that these investments will provide long-term value by virtue of their size, location, quality and condition, and lease characteristics. 

There is no limitation on the number, size or type of properties that we may acquire, or on the percentage of net proceeds of the Offerings that may be invested in a single property. The number and mix of properties comprising our portfolio will depend upon real estate market conditions and other circumstances existing at the time we acquire properties. We will not forgo a high-quality investment because it does not precisely fit our expected portfolio composition. See &#8220;&#8212; Other Possible Investments&#8221; below for a description of other types of real estate and real estate-related investments we may make. 

We incur debt to acquire properties where CR IV Advisors determines that incurring such debt is in our best interests and in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, from time to time, we have acquired and may continue to acquire some properties without financing and later incur mortgage debt secured by one or more of such properties if favorable financing terms are available. We use the proceeds from these loans to acquire additional properties. See &#8220;&#8212; Borrowing Policies&#8221; below for a more detailed description of our borrowing intentions and limitations. 

Real Estate Underwriting Process 

In evaluating potential property acquisitions consistent with our investment objectives, CR IV Advisors applies a well-established underwriting process to determine the creditworthiness of potential tenants. Similarly, CR IV Advisors applies credit underwriting criteria to possible new tenants when we are re-leasing properties in our portfolio. Many of the tenants of our properties are, and we expect will continue to be, national or regional retail chains that are creditworthy entities having high net worth and operating income. CR IV Advisors&#8217; underwriting process includes analyzing the financial data and other available information about the tenant, such as income statements, balance sheets, net worth, cash flow, business plans, data provided by industry credit rating services, and/or other information CR IV Advisors may deem relevant. Generally, these tenants must have a proven track record in order to meet the credit tests applied by CR IV Advisors. In addition, we may obtain guarantees of leases by the corporate parent of the tenant, in which case CR IV Advisors will analyze the creditworthiness of the guarantor. In many instances, especially in sale-leaseback situations where we are acquiring a property from a company and simultaneously leasing it back to the company under a long-term lease, we will meet with the tenant&#8217;s senior management to discuss the company&#8217;s business plan and strategy. 

When using debt rating agencies, a tenant typically will be considered creditworthy when the tenant has an &#8220;investment grade&#8221; debt rating by Moody&#8217;s Investors Service (&#8220;Moody&#8217;s&#8221;) of Baa3 or better, credit rating by Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s Financial Services LLC (&#8220;Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s&#8221;) of BBB- or better, or its payments are guaranteed by a company with such rating. Changes in tenant credit ratings, coupled with future acquisition and disposition activity, may increase or decrease our concentration of creditworthy tenants in the future. 

Moody&#8217;s ratings are forward-looking opinions of future relative creditworthiness, which consider, but are not limited to, franchise value, financial statement analysis and management quality. The rating given to a debt obligation describes the level of risk associated with receiving full and timely payment of principal and interest on that specific debt obligation and how that risk compares with that of all other debt obligations. The rating, therefore, provides one measure of the ability of a company to generate cash in the future. 

A Moody&#8217;s debt rating of Baa3, which is the lowest investment grade rating given by Moody&#8217;s, is assigned to companies which, in Moody&#8217;s opinion, are subject to moderate credit risk and as such may possess certain speculative characteristics. A Moody&#8217;s debt rating of AAA, which is the highest investment grade rating given by Moody&#8217;s, is assigned to companies which, in Moody&#8217;s opinion, are of the highest quality and subject to the lowest level of credit risk. 

Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s assigns a credit rating to companies and to each issuance or class of debt issued by a rated company. A Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s credit rating of BBB-, which is the lowest investment grade rating given by Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s, is assigned to companies that, in Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s opinion, exhibit adequate protection parameters. However, adverse economic conditions or changing circumstances are more likely to lead to a weakened capacity of the company to meet its financial commitments. A Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s credit rating of AAA+, which is the highest investment grade rating given by Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s, is assigned to companies that, in Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s opinion, have extremely strong capacities to meet their financial commitments. 

While we will utilize ratings by Moody&#8217;s and Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s as one factor in determining whether a tenant is creditworthy, CR IV Advisors will also consider other factors in determining whether a tenant is creditworthy for the purpose of meeting our investment objectives. CR IV Advisors&#8217; underwriting process will also consider other information provided by third-party analytical services, such as Moody&#8217;s CreditEdge, along with CR IV Advisors&#8217; own analysis of the financial condition of the tenant and/or the guarantor, the operating history of the property with the tenant, the tenant&#8217;s market share and track record within the tenant&#8217;s industry segment, the general health and outlook of the tenant&#8217;s industry segment, the strength of the tenant&#8217;s management team and the terms and length of the lease at the time of the acquisition. 

Description of Leases 

We expect, in most instances, to continue to acquire tenant properties with existing double-net or triple-net leases. &#8220;Net&#8221; leases means leases that typically require tenants to pay all or a majority of the operating expenses, including real estate taxes, special assessments and sales and use taxes, utilities, maintenance, insurance and building repairs related to the property, in addition to the lease payments. Triple-net leases typically require the tenant to pay all costs associated with a property in addition to the base rent and percentage rent, if any, including capital expenditures for the roof and the building structure. Double-net leases typically hold the landlord responsible for the capital expenditures for the roof and structure, while the tenant is responsible for all lease payments and remaining operating expenses associated with the property. Double-net and triple-net leases help ensure the predictability and stability of our expenses, which we believe will result in greater predictability and stability of our cash distributions to stockholders. Not all of our leases will be net leases. In respect of multi-tenant properties, we expect to continue to have a variety of lease arrangements with the tenants of these properties. Since each lease is an individually negotiated contract between two or more parties, each lease will have different obligations of both the landlord and tenant. Many large national tenants have standard lease forms that generally do not vary from property to property. We will have limited ability to revise the terms of leases to those tenants. We have acquired and may continue to acquire properties subject to &#8220;gross&#8221; leases. &#8220;Gross&#8221; leases means leases that typically require the tenant to pay a flat rental amount and we would pay for all property charges regularly incurred as a result of our owning the property. When spaces in a property become vacant, existing leases expire, or we acquire properties under development or requiring substantial refurbishment or renovation, we anticipate entering into &#8220;net&#8221; leases. 

We anticipate that a majority of our future acquisitions will have lease terms of ten years or more. We have acquired and may continue to acquire properties under which the lease term has partially expired. We also may acquire properties with shorter lease terms if the property is in an attractive location, if the property is difficult to replace, or if the property has other significant favorable real estate attributes. Under most commercial leases, tenants are obligated to pay a predetermined annual base rent. Some of the leases also contain provisions that increase the amount of base rent payable at points during the lease term. We expect that many of our leases will contain periodic rent increases. Generally, the leases require each tenant to procure, at its own expense, commercial general liability insurance, as well as property insurance covering the building for the full replacement value and naming the ownership entity and the lender, if applicable, as the additional insured on the policy. Tenants will be required to provide proof of insurance by furnishing a certificate of insurance to CR IV Advisors on an annual basis. The insurance certificates will be tracked and reviewed for compliance by CR IV Advisors personnel responsible for property and risk management. As a precautionary measure, we may obtain, to the extent available, secondary liability insurance, as well as loss of rents insurance that covers one year of annual rent in the event of a rental loss. 

Some leases require that we procure insurance for both commercial general liability and property damage; however, generally the premiums are fully reimbursable from the tenant. In such instances, the policy will list us as the named insured and the tenant as the additional insured. 

In general, if a lease is assigned or subleased, the original tenant remains fully liable under the lease unless we release that original tenant from its obligations. 

We may enter into sale-leaseback transactions, pursuant to which we purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. While we intend to use our best efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction so that the lease will be characterized as a &#8220;true lease&#8221; and so that we are treated as the owner of the property for federal income tax purposes, the Internal Revenue Service could challenge this characterization. In the event that any sale-leaseback transaction is re-characterized as a financing transaction for federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed, and in certain circumstances, we could lose our REIT status. 

Real Estate Investment Decisions 

CR IV Advisors has substantial discretion with respect to the selection of our specific investments, subject to our investment and borrowing policies, and our policies are approved by our board of directors. In pursuing our investment objectives and making investment decisions on our behalf, CR IV Advisors evaluates the proposed terms of the investment against all aspects of the transaction, including the condition and financial performance of the asset, the terms of existing leases 

and the creditworthiness of the tenant, and property location and characteristics. Because the factors considered, including the specific weight we place on each factor, vary for each potential investment, we do not, and are not able to, assign a specific weight or level of importance to any particular factor. 

CR IV Advisors procures and reviews an independent valuation estimate on each and every proposed investment. In addition, CR IV Advisors, to the extent such information is available, considers the following: 

&#8226; 

tenant rolls and tenant creditworthiness; 

&#8226; 

a property condition report; 

&#8226; 

unit level store performance; 

&#8226; 

property location, visibility and access; 

&#8226; 

age of the property, physical condition and curb appeal; 

&#8226; 

neighboring property uses; 

&#8226; 

local market conditions including vacancy rates; 

&#8226; 

area demographics, including trade area population and average household income; 

&#8226; 

neighborhood growth patterns and economic conditions; 

&#8226; 

presence of nearby properties that may positively or negatively impact store sales at the subject property; and 

&#8226; 

lease terms, including length of lease term, scope of landlord responsibilities, presence and frequency of contractual rental increases, renewal option provisions, exclusive and permitted use provisions, co-tenancy requirements and termination options. 

CR IV Advisors also reviews the terms of each existing lease by considering various factors, including: 

&#8226; rent escalations; 

&#8226; remaining lease term; 

&#8226; renewal option terms; 

&#8226; tenant purchase options; 

&#8226; termination options; 

&#8226; scope of the landlord&#8217;s maintenance, repair and replacement requirements; 

&#8226; projected net cash flow yield; and 

&#8226; projected internal rates of return. 

Our board of directors has adopted a policy to prohibit acquisitions from affiliates of CR IV Advisors unless a majority of our directors (including a majority of our independent directors) not otherwise interested in the transaction determine that the transaction is fair and reasonable to us and certain other conditions are met. See the section captioned &#8220;&#8212; Acquisition of Properties from Affiliates of CR IV Advisors&#8221; below. 

Conditions to Closing Our Acquisitions &#32; 

Generally, we condition our obligation to close the purchase of any investment on the delivery and verification of certain documents from the seller or developer, including, where appropriate: 

&#8226; 

plans and specifications; 

&#8226; 

surveys; 

&#8226; 

evidence that title to the property can be freely sold or otherwise transferred to us, subject to such liens and encumbrances as are acceptable to CR IV Advisors; 

&#8226; 

financial statements covering recent operations of properties, if available; 

&#8226; 

title and liability insurance policies; and 

&#8226; 

certificates of the tenant attesting that the tenant believes that, among other things, the lease is valid and enforceable. 

In addition, we will take such steps as we deem necessary with respect to potential environmental matters. See the section captioned &#8220;Environmental Matters&#8221; below. 

We have and may continue to enter into purchase and sale arrangements with a seller or developer of a suitable property under development or construction. In such cases, we are obligated to purchase the property at the completion of construction, provided that the construction conforms to definitive plans, specifications, and costs approved by us in advance. In such cases, 

prior to our acquiring the property, we generally receive a certificate of an architect, engineer or other appropriate party, stating that the property complies with all plans and specifications. If renovation or remodeling is required prior to the purchase of a property, we expect to pay a negotiated maximum amount to the seller upon completion. 

In determining whether to purchase a particular property, we may obtain an option to purchase such property. The amount paid for an option, if any, normally is forfeited if the property is not purchased and credited against the purchase price if the property is purchased. 

In the purchasing, leasing and developing of properties, we are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate. Refer to Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8212; General Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Ownership Structure 

Our investments in real estate generally take the form of holding fee title or a long-term leasehold estate. We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, such interests either directly through our operating partnership or indirectly through limited liability companies, limited partnerships or other entities owned and/or controlled by us or our operating partnership. We have acquired and may continue to acquire properties by acquiring the entity that holds the desired properties. We also have acquired and may continue to acquire properties through investments in joint ventures, partnerships, co-tenancies or other co-ownership arrangements with third parties, including the developers of the properties or affiliates of CR IV Advisors. See the section captioned &#8220;&#8212; Joint Venture Investments&#8221; below. 

Joint Venture Investments 

We have entered, and may continue to enter into, joint ventures, partnerships, co-tenancies and other co-ownership arrangements with affiliated entities of CR IV Advisors, including other real estate programs sponsored by affiliates of CR IV Advisors, and other third parties for the acquisition, development or improvement of properties or the acquisition of other real estate-related investments. We may also enter into such arrangements with real estate developers, owners and other unaffiliated third parties for the purpose of developing, owning and operating real properties. In determining whether to invest in a particular joint venture, CR IV Advisors will evaluate the underlying real property or other real estate-related investment using the same criteria described above in &#8220;&#8212; Investment Decisions&#8221; for the selection of our real property investments. CR IV Advisors also will evaluate the joint venture or co-ownership partner and the proposed terms of the joint venture or a co-ownership arrangement. 

Our general policy is to invest in joint ventures only when we will have an option or contract to purchase, or a right of first refusal to purchase, the property held by the joint venture or the co-venturer&#8217;s interest in the joint venture if the co-venturer elects to sell such interest. In the event that the co-venturer elects to sell all or a portion of the interests held in any such joint venture, however, we may not have sufficient funds to exercise our right of first refusal to buy the other co-venturer&#8217;s interest in the joint venture. In the event that any joint venture with an affiliated entity holds interests in more than one asset, the interest in each such asset may be specially allocated between us and the joint venture partner based upon the respective proportion of funds deemed invested by each co-venturer in each such asset. 

CR IV Advisors&#8217; officers and key persons may have conflicts of interest in determining which program sponsored by Cole Capital should enter into any particular joint venture agreement. The co-venturer may have economic or business interests or goals that are or may become inconsistent with our business interests or goals. In addition, CR IV Advisors&#8217; officers and key persons may face a conflict in structuring the terms of the relationship between our interests and the interest of the affiliated co-venturer and in managing the joint venture. Since some or all of CR IV Advisors&#8217; officers and key persons will also advise the affiliated co-venturer, agreements and transactions between us and VEREIT or any other real estate programs sponsored by Cole Capital will not have the benefit of arm&#8217;s-length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers, which may result in the co-venturer receiving benefits greater than the benefits that we receive. In addition, we may assume liabilities related to the joint venture that exceed the percentage of our investment in the joint venture. 

We may enter into joint ventures with VEREIT, other real estate programs sponsored by Cole Capital, or with CR IV Advisors, one or more of our directors, or any of their respective affiliates, only if a majority of our directors (including a majority of our independent directors) not otherwise interested in the transaction approve the transaction as being fair and reasonable to us and on substantially the same terms and conditions as those received by unaffiliated joint venturers, and the cost of our investment must be supported by a current third-party appraisal of the asset. 

Development and Construction of Properties &#32; 

We have invested and may continue to invest in properties on which improvements are to be constructed or completed or which require substantial renovation or refurbishment. We expect that joint ventures would be the exclusive vehicle through which we would invest in build-to-suit properties. Our general policy is to structure them as follows: 

&#8226; 

we may enter into a joint venture with third parties who have an executed lease with the developer who has an executed lease in place with the future tenant whereby we will provide a portion of the equity or debt financing; 

&#8226; 

we would accrue a preferred return during construction on any equity investment; 

&#8226; 

the properties will be developed by third parties; and 

&#8226; 

consistent with our general policy regarding joint venture investments, we would have an option or contract to purchase, or a right of first refusal to purchase, the property or the co-investor&#8217;s interest. 

It is possible that joint venture partners may resist granting us a right of first refusal or may insist on a different methodology for unwinding the joint venture if one of the parties wishes to liquidate its interest. 

In the event that we elect to engage in development or construction projects, in order to help ensure performance by the builders of properties that are under construction, completion of such properties will be guaranteed at the contracted price by a completion guaranty, completion bond or performance bond. CR IV Advisors may rely upon the substantial net worth of the contractor or developer or a personal guarantee accompanied by financial statements showing a substantial net worth provided by an affiliate of the person entering into the construction or development contract as an alternative to a completion bond or performance bond. Development of real estate properties is subject to risks relating to a builder&#8217;s ability to control construction costs or to build in conformity with plans, specifications and timetables. Refer to Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8212; General Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We have and may continue to make periodic progress payments or other cash advances to developers and builders of our properties prior to completion of construction only upon receipt of an architect&#8217;s certification as to the percentage of the project then completed and as to the dollar amount of the construction then completed. We intend to use such additional controls on disbursements to builders and developers as we deem necessary or prudent. We have and may continue to directly employ one or more project managers, including CR IV Advisors or an affiliate of CR IV Advisors, to plan, supervise and implement the development of any unimproved properties that we may acquire. Such persons would be compensated directly by us or through an affiliate of CR IV Advisors and reimbursed by us. In either event, the compensation would reduce the amount of any construction fee, development fee or acquisition fee that we would otherwise pay to CR IV Advisors or its affiliate. 

In addition, we have and may continue to invest in unimproved properties, provided that we will not invest more than 10% of our total assets in unimproved properties or in mortgage loans secured by such properties. We will consider a property to be an unimproved property if it was not acquired for the purpose of producing rental or other operating cash flows, has no development or construction in process at the time of acquisition and no development or construction is planned to commence within one year of the acquisition. 

Other Possible Investments 

Although we have invested and expect to continue to invest primarily in real estate, our portfolio may also include other real estate-related investments, such as mortgage, mezzanine, bridge and other loans and securities related to real estate assets, frequently, but not necessarily always, in the corporate sector, to the extent such assets do not cause us to lose our REIT status or cause us to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the &#8220;Investment Company Act&#8221;). We may make adjustments to our target portfolio based on real estate market conditions, capital raised, financing secured and investment opportunities. Thus, to the extent that CR IV Advisors presents us with high quality investment opportunities that allow us to meet the REIT requirements under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#8220;Internal Revenue Code&#8221;) and do not cause us, our operating partnership or any other subsidiaries to meet the definition of an &#8220;investment company&#8221; under the Investment Company Act, our portfolio composition may vary from what we initially expect. Our board of directors has broad discretion to change our investment policies in order for us to achieve our investment objectives. 

Investing in and Originating Loans. The criteria that CR IV Advisors will use in making or investing in loans on our behalf are substantially the same as those involved in acquiring properties for our portfolio. We do not intend to make loans to other persons, to underwrite securities of other issuers or to engage in the purchase and sale of any types of investments other than those relating to real estate. However, unlike our property investments, which we expect to hold in excess of seven years, we expect that the average duration of loans will typically be one to five years. 

We do not expect to make or invest in loans that are not directly or indirectly secured by real estate. We will not make or invest in mortgage loans on any one property if the aggregate amount of all mortgage loans outstanding on the property, including our loan, would exceed an amount equal to 85% of the appraised value of the property, as determined by an independent third-party appraiser, unless we find substantial justification due to other underwriting criteria. We may find such justification in connection with the purchase of loans in cases in which we believe there is a high probability of our foreclosure upon the property in order to acquire the underlying assets and in which the cost of the loan investment does not exceed the fair market value of the underlying property. We will not invest in or make loans unless an appraisal has been obtained concerning the underlying property, except for those loans insured or guaranteed by a government or government agency. In cases in which a majority of our independent directors so determine, and in the event the transaction is with our sponsor, CR IV Advisors, any of our directors or their respective affiliates, the appraisal will be obtained from a certified independent appraiser in order to support its determination of fair market value. 

We may invest in first, second and third mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, bridge loans, wraparound mortgage loans, construction mortgage loans on real property and loans on leasehold interest mortgages. However, we will not make or invest in any loans that are subordinate to any mortgage or equity interest of CR IV Advisors or any of its or our affiliates. We also may invest in participations in mortgage loans. A mezzanine loan is a loan made in respect of certain real property but is secured by a lien on the ownership interests of the entity that, directly or indirectly, owns the real property. A bridge loan is short-term financing for an individual or business, until permanent or the next stage of financing can be obtained. Second mortgage and wraparound loans are secured by second or wraparound deeds of trust on real property that is already subject to prior mortgage indebtedness. A wraparound loan is one or more junior mortgage loans having a principal amount equal to the outstanding balance under the existing mortgage loan, plus the amount actually to be advanced under the wraparound mortgage loan. Under a wraparound loan, we would generally make principal and interest payments on behalf of the borrower to the holders of the prior mortgage loans. Third mortgage loans are secured by third deeds of trust on real property that is already subject to prior first and second mortgage indebtedness. Construction loans are loans made for either original development or renovation of property. Construction loans in which we would generally consider an investment would be secured by first deeds of trust on real property for terms of six months to two years. Loans on leasehold interests are secured by an assignment of the borrower&#8217;s leasehold interest in the particular real property. These loans are generally for terms of six months to 15 years. The leasehold interest loans are either amortized over a period that is shorter than the lease term or have a maturity date prior to the date the lease terminates. These loans would generally permit us to cure any default under the lease. Participations in mortgage loans are investments in partial interests of mortgages of the type described above that are made and administered by third-party mortgage lenders. 

In evaluating prospective loan investments, CR IV Advisors will consider factors such as the following: 

&#8226; the ratio of the investment amount to the underlying property&#8217;s value; 

&#8226; the property&#8217;s potential for capital appreciation; 

&#8226; expected levels of rental and occupancy rates; 

&#8226; the condition and use of the property; 

&#8226; current and projected cash flow of the property; 

&#8226; potential for rent increases; 

&#8226; the degree of liquidity of the investment; 

&#8226; the property&#8217;s income-producing capacity; 

&#8226; the quality, experience and creditworthiness of the borrower; 

&#8226; general economic conditions in the area where the property is located; 

&#8226; in the case of mezzanine loans, the ability to acquire the underlying real property; and 

&#8226; other factors that CR IV Advisors believes are relevant. 

In addition, we will seek to obtain a customary lender&#8217;s title insurance policy or commitment as to the priority of the mortgage or condition of the title. Because the factors considered, including the specific weight we place on each factor, will vary for each prospective loan investment, we do not, and are not able to, assign a specific weight or level of importance to any particular factor. 

We may originate loans from mortgage brokers or personal solicitations of suitable borrowers, or may purchase existing loans that were originated by other lenders. CR IV Advisors will evaluate all potential loan investments to determine if the security for the loan and the loan-to-value ratio meets our investment criteria and objectives. Most loans that we will consider for investment would provide for monthly payments of interest and some may also provide for principal amortization, although 

many loans of the nature that we will consider provide for payments of interest only and a payment of principal in full at the end of the loan term. We will not originate loans with negative amortization provisions. 

We do not have any policies directing the portion of our assets that may be invested in construction loans, mezzanine loans, bridge loans, loans secured by leasehold interests and second, third and wraparound mortgage loans. However, we recognize that these types of loans are more subject to risk than first deeds of trust or first priority mortgages on income-producing, fee-simple properties, and we expect to minimize the amount of these types of loans in our portfolio, to the extent that we make or invest in loans at all. CR IV Advisors will evaluate the fact that these types of loans are riskier in determining the rate of interest on the loans. We do not have any policy that limits the amount that we may invest in any single loan or the amount we may invest in loans to any one borrower. We are not limited as to the amount of gross offering proceeds that we may use to invest in or originate loans. 

Our loan investments may be subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities and subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions, including among other things, regulating credit granting activities, establishing maximum interest rates and finance charges, requiring disclosures to customers, governing secured transactions and setting collection, repossession and claims handling procedures and other trade practices. In addition, certain states have enacted legislation requiring the licensing of mortgage bankers or other lenders and these requirements may affect our ability to effectuate our proposed investments in loans. Commencement of operations in these or other jurisdictions may be dependent upon a finding of our financial responsibility, character and fitness. We may determine not to make loans in any jurisdiction in which the regulatory authority determines that we have not complied in all material respects with applicable requirements. 

Investment in Other Real Estate-Related Securities. To the extent permitted by Section V.D.2 of the Statement of Policy Regarding Real Estate Investment Trusts adopted by the North American Securities Administrators Association (the &#8220;NASAA REIT Guidelines&#8221;), and subject to the limitations set forth in our charter, we may invest in common and preferred real estate-related equity securities of both publicly traded and private real estate companies. Real estate-related equity securities are generally unsecured and also may be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. Our investments in real estate-related equity securities will involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the equity securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. 

We may also make investments in commercial mortgage backed securities (&#8220;CMBS&#8221;) to the extent permitted by the NASAA REIT Guidelines. CMBS are securities that evidence interests in, or are secured by, a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. CMBS are generally pass-through certificates that represent beneficial ownership interests in common law trusts whose assets consist of defined portfolios of one or more commercial mortgage loans. They are typically issued in multiple tranches whereby the more senior classes are entitled to priority distributions from the trust&#8217;s income. Losses and other shortfalls from expected amounts to be received on the mortgage pool are borne by the most subordinate classes, which receive payments only after the more senior classes have received all principal and/or interest to which they are entitled. CMBS are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. We may invest in investment grade and non-investment grade CMBS classes. Our board of directors has adopted a policy to limit any investments in non-investment grade CMBS to not more than 10% of our total assets. 

Borrowing Policies 

CR IV Advisors believes that utilizing borrowings to make investments is consistent with our investment objective of maximizing the return to investors. By operating on a leveraged basis, we have more funds available for investment in properties. This allows us to make more investments than would otherwise be possible, potentially resulting in a more diversified portfolio. 

At the same time, CR IV Advisors believes in utilizing leverage in a moderate fashion. While there is no limitation on the amount we may borrow against any single improved property, our charter limits our aggregate borrowings to 75% of the cost of our gross assets (or 300% of net assets) (before deducting depreciation or other non-cash reserves) unless excess borrowing is approved by a majority of the independent directors and disclosed to our stockholders in the next quarterly report along with the justification for such excess borrowing. Consistent with CR IV Advisors&#8217; approach toward the moderate use of leverage, our board of directors has adopted a policy to further limit our borrowings to 60% of the greater of cost (before deducting depreciation or other non-cash reserves) or fair market value of our gross assets, unless excess borrowing is approved by a majority of the independent directors and disclosed to our stockholders in the next quarterly report along with a justification for such excess borrowing. Our advisor has set a target leverage ratio of 40% to 50% of the greater of cost (before deducting depreciation or other non-cash reserves) or fair market value of our gross assets. As of December 31, 2015 , the debt leverage ratio of our consolidated real estate assets, which is the ratio of debt to total gross real estate assets net of gross intangible lease liabilities, was 44% . 

CR IV Advisors uses its best efforts to obtain financing on the most favorable terms available to us. CR IV Advisors has substantial discretion with respect to the financing we obtain, subject to our borrowing policies, which have been approved by our board of directors. Under certain limited circumstances, lenders may have recourse to assets not securing the repayment of the indebtedness. CR IV Advisors may elect to refinance properties during the term of a loan, but we expect this would occur only in limited circumstances, such as when a decline in interest rates makes it beneficial to prepay an existing mortgage, when an existing mortgage matures or if an attractive investment becomes available and the proceeds from the refinancing can be used to purchase such investment. The benefits of the refinancing may include increased cash flow resulting from reduced debt service requirements and an increase in property ownership if some refinancing proceeds are reinvested in real estate. 

Our ability to increase our diversification through borrowing may be adversely impacted if banks and other lending institutions reduce the amount of funds available for loans secured by real estate. When interest rates on mortgage loans are high or financing is otherwise unavailable on a timely basis, we have purchased, and may continue to purchase, properties for cash with the intention of obtaining a mortgage loan for a portion of the purchase price at a later time. To the extent that we do not obtain mortgage loans on our properties, our ability to acquire additional properties will be restricted and we may not be able to adequately diversify our portfolio. Refer to Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Associated with Debt Financing included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We may not borrow money from any of our directors, Cole Capital, CR IV Advisors or any of their affiliates unless such loan is approved by a majority of the directors (including a majority of the independent directors) not otherwise interested in the transaction as fair, competitive and commercially reasonable and no less favorable to us than a comparable loan between unaffiliated parties. 

Disposition Policies 

We intend to hold each property we acquire for an extended period, generally in excess of seven years. Holding periods for other real estate-related investments may vary. Regardless of intended holding periods, circumstances might arise that could cause us to determine to sell an asset before the end of the expected holding period if we believe the sale of the asset would be in the best interests of our stockholders. The determination of whether a particular asset should be sold or otherwise disposed of will be made after consideration of relevant factors, including prevailing and projected economic conditions, current tenant rolls and tenant creditworthiness, whether we could apply the proceeds from the sale of the asset to make other investments, whether disposition of the asset would increase cash flow, and whether the sale of the asset would be a prohibited transaction under the Internal Revenue Code or otherwise impact our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. The selling price of a property that is net leased will be determined in large part by the amount of rent payable under the lease. If a tenant has a repurchase option at a formula price, we may be limited in realizing any appreciation. In connection with our sales of properties, we may lend the purchaser all or a portion of the purchase price. In these instances, our taxable income may exceed the cash received in the sale. During the year ended &#32; December 31, 2015 , we sold one &#32;undeveloped land parcel for a gross sales price of $1.1 million , resulting in net cash proceeds of $1.0 million &#32;and a loss of $108,000 . 

Acquisition of Properties from Affiliates of CR IV Advisors 

We may acquire properties or interests in properties from, or in co-ownership arrangements with, entities affiliated with CR IV Advisors, including properties acquired from affiliates of CR IV Advisors engaged in construction and development of commercial real properties. We will not acquire any property from an affiliate of CR IV Advisors unless a majority of our directors (including a majority of our independent directors) not otherwise interested in the transaction determine that the transaction is fair and reasonable to us. The purchase price that we will pay for any property we acquire from affiliates of CR IV Advisors, including property developed by an affiliate of CR IV Advisors as well as property held by such an affiliate that has already been developed, will not exceed the current appraised value of the property. In addition, the price of the property we acquire from an affiliate of CR IV Advisors may not exceed the cost of the property to the affiliate, unless a majority of our directors (including a majority of our independent directors) determine that substantial justification for the excess exists and the excess is reasonable. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , we did not purchase any properties from affiliates of our advisor. 

Conflicts of Interest 

We are subject to various conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with CR IV Advisors and its affiliates, including conflicts related to the arrangements pursuant to which we will compensate CR IV Advisors and its affiliates. Certain conflict resolution procedures are set forth in our charter. 

Our officers and affiliates of CR IV Advisors will try to balance our interests with the interests of other real estate programs sponsored by Cole Capital to whom they owe duties. However, to the extent that these persons take actions that are 

more favorable to other entities than to us, these actions could have a negative impact on our financial performance and, consequently, on distributions to our stockholders and the value of their investments. 

Our independent directors have an obligation to act on our behalf and on behalf of our stockholders in all situations in which a conflict of interest may arise. 

We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with VEREIT, which also has investment objectives, targeted assets, and legal obligations similar to ours. 

Interests in Other Real Estate Programs and Other Concurrent Offerings 

Affiliates of CR IV Advisors act as an advisor to, and our chief financial officer and chief executive officer act as executive officers of, Cole Credit Property Trust V, Inc. (&#8220;CCPT V&#8221;), Cole Office &#38; Industrial REIT (CCIT II), Inc. (&#8220;CCIT II&#8221;) and Cole Real Estate Income Strategy (Daily NAV), Inc. (&#8220;Cole Income NAV Strategy&#8221;), all of which are public, non-traded REITs distributed and managed by affiliates of CR IV Advisors. In addition, all of these REITs primarily focus on the acquisition and management of commercial properties subject to long term net leases to creditworthy tenants. VEREIT and CCPT V, like us, focus primarily on the retail sector, while CCIT II focuses primarily on the office and industrial sectors and Cole Income NAV Strategy focuses primarily on commercial properties in the retail, office and industrial sectors. The investment strategy used by each REIT would permit them to purchase certain properties that also may be suitable for our portfolio. Former programs sponsored, distributed and managed by affiliates of CR IV Advisors were: Cole Corporate Income Trust, Inc. (&#8220;CCIT&#8221;), which merged with Select Income REIT, an unaffiliated publicly-listed REIT, on January 28, 2015; Cole Credit Property Trust, Inc. (&#8220;CCPT I&#8221;), which merged with VEREIT on May 19, 2014; and Cole Credit Property Trust II, Inc. (&#8220;CCPT II&#8221;), which merged with Spirit Realty Capital, Inc., an unaffiliated publicly-listed REIT, on July 17, 2013. 

CCIT II&#8217;s initial public offering of up to $2.975 billion in shares of common stock was declared effective by the SEC on September 17, 2013. Cole Income NAV Strategy&#8217;s offerings of up to $4.0 billion in shares of common stock of three classes were declared effective by the SEC on December 6, 2011 and August 26, 2013. CCPT V&#8217;s initial public offering of up to $2.975 billion in shares of common stock was declared effective by the SEC on March 17, 2014. 

VEREIT and any real estate program sponsored by Cole Capital, whether or not currently existing, could compete with us in the sale or operation of our assets. We will seek to achieve any operating efficiencies or similar savings that may result from affiliated management of competitive assets. However, to the extent such programs own or acquire property that is adjacent, or in close proximity, to a property we own, our property may compete with such other program&#8217;s property for tenants or purchasers. 

Although our board of directors has adopted a policy limiting the types of transactions that we may enter into with CR IV Advisors and its affiliates, including VEREIT and other real estate programs sponsored by Cole Capital, we may enter into certain such transactions, which are subject to inherent conflicts of interest. Similarly, joint ventures involving affiliates of CR IV Advisors also give rise to conflicts of interest. In addition, our board of directors may encounter conflicts of interest in enforcing our rights against any affiliate of CR IV Advisors in the event of a default by or disagreement with an affiliate or in invoking powers, rights or options pursuant to any agreement between us and CR IV Advisors, any of its affiliates, VEREIT or another real estate program sponsored by Cole Capital. 

Other Activities of CR IV Advisors and Its Affiliates 

We rely on CR IV Advisors for the day-to-day operation of our business pursuant to an advisory agreement. As a result of the interests of members of its management in other real estate programs sponsored by Cole Capital and the fact that they have also engaged and will continue to engage in other business activities, CR IV Advisors and its officers, key persons and respective affiliates have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between us and other real estate programs sponsored by Cole Capital and other activities in which they are involved. However, CR IV Advisors believes that it and its affiliates have sufficient personnel to discharge fully their responsibilities to all of the real estate programs sponsored by Cole Capital and other ventures in which they are involved. 

In addition, each of our executive officers also serves as an officer and/or director of CR IV Advisors, our property manager, and/or other affiliated entities. As a result, these individuals owe duties to these other entities, as applicable, which may conflict with the duties that they owe to us and our stockholders. 

Dealer Manager 

Because CCC, the dealer manager for the Offering, is an affiliate of CR IV Advisors, we did not have the benefit of an independent due diligence review and investigation of the type normally performed by an unaffiliated, independent underwriter in connection with the Offerings. 

Property Manager 

Our properties are, and we anticipate that substantially all properties we acquire in the future will be, managed and leased by our property manager, CREI Advisors, an affiliate of our advisor, pursuant to property management and leasing agreements with our subsidiaries that hold title to our properties. We expect CREI Advisors to also serve as property manager for properties owned by other real estate programs sponsored by Cole Capital, some of which may be in competition with our properties. 

Receipt of Fees and Other Compensation by CR IV Advisors and Its Affiliates 

We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, fees and expenses payable to CR IV Advisors and its affiliates in connection with the acquisition and management of our assets, including acquisition and advisory fees, acquisition expenses and operating expenses. 

A transaction involving the purchase or sale of properties, or the purchase or sale of any other real estate-related investment will likely result in the receipt of fees and other compensation by CR IV Advisors and its affiliates, including acquisition and advisory fees, disposition fees and the possibility of subordinated performance fees. Subject to oversight by our board of directors, CR IV Advisors will continue to have considerable discretion with respect to all decisions relating to the terms and timing of all transactions. Therefore, CR IV Advisors may have conflicts of interest concerning certain actions taken on our behalf, particularly due to the fact that acquisition fees will generally be based on the cost of the investment and payable to CR IV Advisors and its affiliates regardless of the quality of the properties acquired. The advisory fees are based on the estimated value of our investments regardless of the quality of the properties acquired or services provided to us. Basing acquisition fees and advisory fees on the estimated value of our investments may influence CR IV Advisors&#8217; decisions relating to property acquisitions. 

Employees 

We have no direct employees. The employees of CR IV Advisors and its affiliates provide services to us related to acquisition and disposition, property management, asset management, financing, accounting, investor relations and administration. The employees of CCC, the dealer manager for the Offering, provide wholesale brokerage services. 

We are dependent on CR IV Advisors and its affiliates for services that are essential to us, including the sale of shares of our common stock, asset acquisition decisions, property management and other general administrative responsibilities. In the event that these companies were unable to provide these services to us, we would be required to obtain such services from other sources. 

We reimburse CR IV Advisors and its affiliates for expenses incurred in connection with its provision of administrative, acquisition, property management, asset management, financing, accounting and investor relation services, including personnel costs, subject to certain limitations. During the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , $9.7 million , $7.3 million &#32;and $6.2 million , respectively, were recorded for reimbursement of services provided by CR IV Advisors and its affiliates in connection with the acquisition, management, and financing of our assets. In addition, during the years ended December 31, 2014 &#32;and 2013 , $7.3 million &#32;and $36.2 million , respectively, were recorded for the reimbursement of certain third-party and personnel costs allocated in connection with the issuance of shares pursuant to the Offering. No amounts were recorded for the reimbursement of certain third-party and personnel costs allocated in connection with the issuance of shares pursuant to the Offering during the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

Reportable Segment 

We operate on a consolidated basis in our commercial properties segment. See Note 2 &#8212; Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Competition 

As we purchase properties, we are in competition with other potential buyers for the same properties and may have to pay more to purchase the property than if there were no other potential acquirers or we may have to locate another property that meets our investment criteria. Regarding the leasing efforts of our owned properties, the leasing of real estate is highly competitive in the current market, and we may continue to experience competition for tenants from owners and managers of competing projects. As a result, we may have to provide free rent, incur charges for tenant improvements, or offer other inducements, or we might not be able to timely lease the space, all of which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. At the time we elect to dispose of our properties, we may also be in competition with sellers of similar properties to locate suitable purchasers for our properties. See the section captioned &#8220;&#8212; Conflicts of Interest&#8221; above. 

Property Concentrations 

As of December 31, 2015 , no single tenant accounted for greater than 10% of our 2015 &#32;gross annualized rental revenues. We had certain geographic concentrations in our property holdings. In particular, as of December 31, 2015 , 77 &#32;of our properties were located in California, which accounted for 11% &#32;of our 2015 &#32;gross annualized rental revenues. In addition, we have tenants in the discount store and pharmacy industries, which comprised 14% &#32;and 11% , respectively, of our 2015 &#32;gross annualized rental revenues. See Part I, Item 2. Properties of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the geographic concentration of our properties. 

Environmental Matters 

In connection with the ownership and operation of real estate, we may potentially be liable for costs and damages related to environmental matters. We may own certain properties that are subject to environmental remediation. Generally, the seller of the property, the tenant of the property and/or another third party has been identified as the responsible party for environmental remediation costs related to the respective property subject to environmental remediation. Additionally, in connection with the purchase of certain properties, the respective sellers and/or tenants may agree to indemnify us against future remediation costs. In addition, we also carry environmental liability insurance on our properties that provides limited coverage for remediation liability and/or pollution liability for third-party bodily injury and/or property damage claims for which the Company may be liable. 

We generally will not purchase any property unless and until we also obtain what is generally referred to as a &#8220;Phase I&#8221; environmental site assessment and are generally satisfied with the environmental status of the property. However, we may purchase a property without obtaining such assessment if our advisor determines the assessment is not necessary because there is an existing recent Phase I environmental site assessment. A Phase I environmental site assessment generally consists of a visual survey of the building and the property in an attempt to identify areas of potential environmental concerns, visually observing neighboring properties to assess surface conditions or activities that may have an adverse environmental impact on the property, interviewing the key site manager and/or property owner, contacting local governmental agency personnel and performing an environmental regulatory database search in an attempt to determine any known environmental concerns in, and in the immediate vicinity of, the property. A Phase I environmental site assessment does not generally include any sampling or testing of soil, ground water or building materials from the property and may not reveal all environmental hazards on a property. 

In the event the Phase I environmental site assessment uncovers potential environmental problems with a property, our advisor will determine whether we will pursue the investment opportunity and whether we will have a &#8220;Phase II&#8221; environmental site assessment performed. The factors we may consider in determining whether to conduct a Phase II environmental site assessment include, but are not limited to, (1) the types of operations conducted on the property and surrounding property, (2) the time, duration and materials used during such operations, (3) the waste handling practices of any tenants or property owners, (4) the potential for hazardous substances to be released into the environment, (5) any history of environmental law violations on the subject property and surrounding property, (6) any documented environmental releases, (7) any observations from the consultant that conducted the Phase I environmental site assessment, and (8) whether any party (i.e., surrounding property owners, prior owners or tenants) may be responsible for addressing the environmental conditions. We will determine whether to conduct a Phase II environmental site assessment on a case by case basis. 

We are not aware of any environmental matters which we believe are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 

Available Information 

We electronically file our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports with the SEC. We have also filed registration statements, amendments to our registration statements, and/or supplements to our prospectus in connection with our Offerings with the SEC. Copies of our filings with the SEC may be obtained from the SEC&#8217;s website, at http://www.sec.gov . Access to these filings is free of charge. 

