 Item 1. Business Sovran Self Storage, Inc. together with its direct and indirect subsidiaries and its consolidated joint ventures, to the extent appropriate in the applicable context, (the &#147;Company,&#148; &#147;We,&#148; &#147;Our,&#148; or &#147;Sovran&#148;) is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (&#147;REIT&#148;) that acquires, owns and manages self-storage properties. We refer to the self-storage properties in which we have an ownership interest, lease, and/or are managed by us as &#147;Properties.&#148; We began operations on June 26, 1995. We were formed to continue the business of our predecessor company, which had engaged in the self-storage business since 1985. At December 31, 2015, we had an ownership interest in and/or managed 542 self-storage properties in 25 states under the name Uncle Bob&#146;s Self Storage &#174; . Among our 542 self-storage properties are 39 properties that we manage for an unconsolidated joint venture (Sovran HHF Storage Holdings LLC) of which we are a 20% owner, 30 properties that we manage for an unconsolidated joint venture (Sovran HHF Storage Holdings II LLC) of which we are a 15% owner, 21 properties that we manage and have no ownership interest. We believe we are the fifth largest operator of self-storage properties in the United States based on square feet owned and managed. Our Properties conduct business under the user-friendly name Uncle Bob&#146;s Self Storage &#174; . 

At December 31, 2015, we own an indirect interest in 521 of the Properties through a limited partnership (the &#147;Partnership&#148;). Included in the 521 properties are the 69 facilities in our unconsolidated joint ventures. In total, we own a 99.5% economic interest in the Partnership and unaffiliated third parties own collectively a 0.5% limited partnership interest at December 31, 2015. We believe that this structure, commonly known as an umbrella partnership real estate investment trust (&#147;UPREIT&#148;), facilitates our ability to acquire properties by using units of the Partnership as currency. By utilizing interests in the Partnership as currency in facility acquisitions, we may partially defer the seller&#146;s income tax liability which in turn may allow us to obtain more favorable pricing. 

We were incorporated on April 19, 1995 under Maryland law. Our principal executive offices are located at 6467 Main Street, Williamsville, New York 14221, our telephone number is (716) 633-1850 and our website is www.unclebobs.com . 

We seek to enhance shareholder value through internal growth and acquisition of additional storage properties. Internal growth is achieved through aggressive property management: optimizing rental rates, increasing occupancy levels, controlling costs, maximizing collections, and strategically expanding and enhancing the Properties. Should economic conditions warrant, we may develop new properties. We believe that there continue to be opportunities for growth through acquisitions, and constantly seek to acquire self-storage properties that are susceptible to realization of increased economies of scale and improved performance through application of our expertise. 

&#160;

Industry Overview 

We believe that self-storage facilities offer inexpensive storage space to residential and commercial users. In addition to fully enclosed and secure storage space, many facilities also offer outside storage for automobiles, recreational vehicles and boats. Better facilities, such as those owned and/or managed by the Company, are usually fenced and well lighted with automated access systems, surveillance cameras, and have a full-time manager. Our customers rent space on a month-to-month basis and typically have access to their storage space up to 15 hours a day and in certain circumstances are provided with 24-hour access. Individual storage spaces are secured by the customer&#146;s lock, and the customer has sole control of access to the space. 

According to the 2016 Self-Storage Almanac, of the approximately 51,000 facilities in the United States (including both core and non-core storage businesses), approximately 14% are managed by the ten largest operators. The remainder of the industry is characterized by numerous small, local operators. The scarcity of capital available to small operators for acquisitions and expansions, internet marketing, and call centers, and the potential for savings through economies of scale are factors that are leading to consolidation in the industry. We believe that, as a result of this trend, significant growth opportunities exist for operators with proven management systems and sufficient capital resources to grow either through acquisitions or third party management platforms. 

Property Management 

We have 30 years of experience managing self storage facilities and the combined experience of our key personnel makes us one of the leaders in the industry. All of our stores operate under the user-friendly name of Uncle Bob&#146;s Self Storage &#174; , and we employ the following strategies with respect to our property management: 

Our People: 

We recognize the importance of quality people to the success of an organization. Accordingly, we hire and train to ensure that all associates can reach their full potential. Each strives to conduct themselves in accordance with our core values: Teamwork, Respect, Accountability, Integrity, and Innovation. In turn, we support them with state of the art training tools including an online learning management system, a company intranet and a network of certified training personnel. Every store team also has frequent, and sometimes daily, interaction with an Area Manager, a Regional Vice President, an Accounting Representative, and other support personnel. As such, our store associates are held to high standards for customer service, store appearance, financial performance, and overall operations. 

Training &#38; Development: 

Our employees benefit from a wide array of training and development opportunities. New store employees undergo a comprehensive, proprietary training program designed to drive sales and operational results while ensuring the delivery of quality customer service. To supplement their initial training, employees enjoy continuing edification, coaching, and performance feedback throughout their tenure. 

All learning and development activities are facilitated through our online training and development portal. This portal delivers and tracks hundreds of on-demand computer based training and compliance courses; it also administers tests, surveys, and the employee appraisal process. Sovran&#146;s training and development program encompasses the tools and support we deem essential to the success of our employees and business. 

Marketing and Advertising: 

We believe the avenues for attracting and capturing new customers have changed dramatically over the years. As such, we have implemented the following strategies to market our properties and increase profitability: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; We employ a Customer Care Center (call center) that services an average of 35,000 rental inquiries per month. Our Sales Representatives answer incoming sales calls for all of our stores, 361 days a year, 24 hours a day. The team undertakes continuous training and coaching in effective storage sales techniques, which we believe results in higher conversions of inquiries to rentals. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The digital age has changed consumer behavior&#151;the way people shop, their expectations, and the way we communicate with them. Our aggressive internet marketing and website provide customers with real-time pricing, online reservations, online payments, and support for mobile devices. We involve internal and external expertise to manage our internet presence and leverage a mix of mobile, desktop, and social media to attract and engage customers. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Since the need for storage is largely based on timing, the ultimate goal is to create as much positive brand recognition as possible. When the time comes for a customer to select a storage company, we want the Uncle Bob&#146;s brand to be on the top of their mind. We employ a variety of different strategies to create brand awareness; this includes our Uncle Bob&#146;s rental trucks, branded merchandise such as moving and packing supplies, and extensive regional marketing in the communities in which we operate. We strive to gain the most exposure as possible for the longest period of time. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Dri-guard humidity-controlled spaces are a premium storage feature intended to protect metal, electronics, furniture, fabrics and paper from moisture. We became the first self-storage operator to utilize this humidity protection technology and we believe it helps to differentiate us from other operators. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; We also have a fleet of rental trucks that serve as an added incentive to choose our storage facilities. The truck rental charge is waived for new move-in customers and we believe it provides a valuable service and added incentive to choose us. Further, the prominent display of our logo turns each truck into a moving billboard. Ancillary Income: 

We know that our 290,000 customers require more than just a storage space. Knowing this, we offer a wide range of other products and services that fulfill their needs while providing us with ancillary income. Whereas our Uncle Bob&#146;s trucks are available with no rental charge for new move-in customers, they are available for rent to non-customers and existing customers. We also rent moving dollies and blankets, and we carry a wide assortment of moving and packing supplies including boxes, tape, locks, and other essential items. For those customers who do not carry storage insurance, we make available renters insurance through a third party carrier, on which we earn an administrative fee. We also receive incidental income from billboards and cell towers. 

Information Systems: 

Each of our primary business functions is linked to our customized computer applications, many of which are proprietary. These systems provide for consistent, timely and accurate flow of information throughout our critical platforms: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Our proprietary operating software (&#147;ubOS&#148;) is installed at all locations and performs the functions necessary for field personnel to efficiently and effectively run a property. This includes customer account management, automatic imposition of late fees, move-in and move-out analysis, generation of essential legal notices, and marketing reports to aid in regional marketing efforts. Financial reports are automatically transmitted to our Corporate Offices overnight to allow for strict accounting oversight. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ubOS is linked with each of our primary sales channels (customer care center, internet, store) allowing for real-time access to space type and inventory, pricing, promotions, and other pertinent store information. This robust flow of information facilitates our commitment to capturing prospective customers from all channels. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ubOS provides our revenue management team with raw data on historical pricing, move-in and move-out activity, specials and occupancies, etc. This data is utilized in the various algorithms that form the foundation of our revenue management program. Changes to pricing and specials are &#147;pushed out&#148; to all sales channels instantaneously. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ubOS generates financial reports for each property that provide our accounting and audit departments with the necessary oversight of transactions; this allows us to maintain proper control of receipts. &#160;

Revenue Management: 

Our proprietary revenue management system is constantly evolving through the efforts of our revenue management team comprised of a group of analysts. We have the ability to change pricing instantaneously for any one unit type, at any single location, based on the occupancy, competition, and forecasted changes in demand. By analyzing current customer rent tenures, we can implement rental rate increases at optimal times to increase revenues. Advanced pricing analytics enables us to reduce the amount of concessions, attracting a more stable customer base and discouraging short-term price shoppers. This system continues to drive revenues throughout our portfolio. 

Property Maintenance: 

We take great pride in the appearance and structural integrity of our Properties. All of our Properties go through a thorough annual inspection performed by experienced Project Managers. Those inspections provide the basis for short and long term planned projects that are all performed under a standardized set of specifications. Routine maintenance such as landscaping, pest control, and snowplowing is contracted to local providers who have a clear understanding of our standards. Further, our software tracks repairs, monitors contractor performance and measures the useful life of assets. As with many other aspects of our Company, our size has allowed us to enjoy relatively low maintenance costs because we have the benefit of economies of scale in purchasing, travel, and overhead absorption. In addition, we continually look to green alternatives and implement energy saving alternatives as new technology becomes available. This includes the installation of solar panels, LED lighting, energy efficient air conditioning units, and cool roofs which are all environmentally friendly and have the potential to reduce energy consumption (thereby reducing costs) in the buildings in which they are installed.

Environmental and Other Regulations 

We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental regulations that apply generally to the ownership of real property. We have not received notice from any governmental authority or private party of any material environmental noncompliance, claim, or liability in connection with any of the Properties, and are not aware of any environmental condition with respect to any of the Properties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 

The Properties are also generally subject to the same types of local regulations governing other real property, including zoning ordinances. We believe that the Properties are in substantial compliance with all such regulations. 

Insurance 

Each of the Properties is covered by fire and property insurance (including comprehensive liability), and all-risk property insurance policies, which are provided by reputable companies and on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we maintain a policy insuring against environmental liabilities resulting from tenant storage on terms customary for the industry, and title insurance insuring fee title to the Company-owned Properties in an amount that we believe to be adequate. 

Federal Income Tax 

We operate, and intend to continue to operate, in such a manner as to continue to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the &#147;Code&#148;), but no assurance can be given that we will at all times so qualify. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed, with certain limited exceptions, on the taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders. We have elected to treat one of our subsidiaries as a taxable REIT subsidiary. In general, our taxable REIT subsidiary may perform additional services for customers and generally may engage in certain real estate or non-real estate related business. Our taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to corporate federal and state income taxes. See Item 7, &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;REIT Qualification and Distribution Requirements.&#148; 

&#160;

Competition 

The primary factors upon which competition in the self-storage industry is based are location, rental rates, suitability of the property&#146;s design to prospective customers&#146; needs, and the manner in which the property is operated and marketed. We believe we compete successfully on these bases. The extent of competition depends significantly on local market conditions. We seek to locate facilities in a manner in which we can increase market share while not adversely affecting any of our existing locations in that market. However, the number of self-storage facilities in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on the performance of any of the Properties. 

Several of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. These larger operators may, among other possible advantages, be capable of greater leverage and the payment of higher prices for acquisitions. 

Investment Policy 

While we emphasize equity real estate investments, we may, at our discretion, invest in mortgage and other real estate interests related to self-storage properties in a manner consistent with our qualification as a REIT. We may also retain a purchase money mortgage for a portion of the sale price in connection with the disposition of Properties from time to time. Should investment opportunities become available, we may look to acquire self-storage properties via a joint-venture partnership or similar entity. We may or may not elect to have a significant investment in such a venture, but would use such an opportunity to expand our portfolio of branded and managed properties. 

Subject to the percentage of ownership limitations and gross income tests necessary for REIT qualification, we also may invest in securities of entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers, including for the purpose of exercising control over such entities. 

Disposition Policy 

Any disposition decision of our Properties is based on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the (i) potential to continue to increase cash flow and value, (ii) sale price, (iii) strategic fit with the rest of our portfolio, (iv) potential for, or existence of, environmental or regulatory issues, (v) alternative uses of capital, and (vi) maintaining qualification as a REIT. 

During 2015, we sold three non-strategic storage facilities purchased during 2014 and 2015 in Missouri and South Carolina for net proceeds of approximately $4.6 million, resulting in a loss of approximately $0.5 million. During 2014, we sold two non-strategic storage facilities in Texas for net proceeds of approximately $11.0 million resulting in a gain of approximately $5.2 million. During 2013, we sold four non-strategic storage facilities in Florida, Ohio, and Virginia for net proceeds of approximately $11.7 million resulting in a gain of approximately $2.4 million. 

Distribution Policy 

We intend to pay regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However, future distributions by us will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on the actual cash available for distribution, our financial condition and capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must make annual distributions to shareholders of at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not include capital gains). Under certain circumstances, we may be required to make distributions in excess of cash available for distribution in order to meet the minimum requirements. 

&#160;

Financing Policy 

Our Board of Directors currently limits the amount of debt that may be incurred by us to less than 50% of the sum of the market value of our issued and outstanding Common and Preferred Stock plus our debt. We, however, may from time to time re-evaluate and modify our borrowing policy in light of then current economic conditions, relative costs of debt and equity capital, market values of properties, growth and acquisition opportunities and other factors. In addition to our Board of Directors&#146; debt limits, our most restrictive debt covenants limit our leverage. However, we believe cash flow from operations, access to the capital markets and access to our credit facility, as described below, are adequate to execute our current business plan and remain in compliance with our debt covenants. 

We have a $300 million revolving line of credit bearing interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin based on the Company&#146;s credit rating (at December 31, 2015 the margin was 1.30%). At December 31, 2015, there was $221 million available on the unsecured line of credit without considering the additional availability under the credit facility expansion feature. The revolving line of credit has a maturity date of December 2019. In January 2016, the Company exercised the expansion feature of its revolving line of credit and increased the credit limit from $300 million to $500 million. 

On March 3, 2015, the Company completed the public offering of 1,380,000 shares of its common stock at $90.40 per share. Net proceeds to the Company after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses were approximately $119.5 million. The Company used the net proceeds from the offering to repay a portion of the indebtedness outstanding on the Company&#146;s unsecured line of credit. 

On January 20, 2016, the Company agreed to issue and sell 2,300,000 shares of the Company&#146;s common stock, par value $.01 per share, plus up to an additional 345,000 shares of common stock pursuant to the underwriters&#146; option, at a price to the public of $105.75 per share. The underwriters&#146; exercised their option in full. The offering of 2,645,000 shares of the Company&#146;s common stock closed on January 25, 2016, resulting in net proceeds to the Company of approximately $269.7 million. 

During 2015, the Company also issued 949,911 shares of common stock under the Company&#146;s continuous equity offering program (&#147;Equity Program&#148;) at a weighted average issue price of $96.80 per share, generating net proceeds of $90.6 million. During 2014, we issued 924,403 shares under the Equity Program and 359,102 shares under our previous Equity Program for net proceeds of approximately $99.2 million. During 2013, we issued 1,667,819 shares under our previous Equity Program for net proceeds of approximately $107.8 million. As of December 31, 2015, the Company has $59.3 million availability for issuance of shares under the current Equity Program. 

To the extent that we desire to obtain additional capital to pay distributions, to provide working capital, to pay existing indebtedness or to finance acquisitions, expansions or development of new properties, we may utilize amounts available under the line of credit, common or preferred stock offerings, floating or fixed rate debt financing, retention of cash flow (subject to satisfying our distribution requirements under the REIT rules) or a combination of these methods. Additional debt financing may also be obtained through mortgages on our Properties, which may be recourse, non-recourse, or cross-collateralized and may contain cross-default provisions. We have not established any limit on the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any single Property or on our portfolio as a whole, although certain of our existing term loans contain limits on overall mortgage indebtedness. For additional information regarding borrowings, see Item 7, &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#148; and Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements filed herewith. 

&#160;

Employees 

We currently employ a total of 1,429 employees, including 542 property managers, 33 area managers, and 645 associate managers and part-time employees. At our headquarters, in addition to our six senior executive officers, we employ 203 people engaged in various support activities, including accounting, human resources, customer care, and management information systems. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be excellent. 

Available Information 

We file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission quarterly and annual reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K, respectively, current reports on Form 8-K, and proxy statements pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in addition to other information as required. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 (800) SEC-0330. We file this information with the SEC electronically, and the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our web site at http://www.unclebobs.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, our Codes of Ethics and Charters of our Governance Committee, Audit Committee, and Compensation Committee are available free of charge on our website at http://www.unclebobs.com . 

Also, copies of our annual report and Charters of our Governance Committee, Audit Committee, and Compensation Committee will be made available, free of charge, upon written request to Sovran Self Storage, Inc., Attn: Investor Relations, 6467 Main Street, Williamsville, NY 14221. 

&#160;

