 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

&#160;

Description of Business of Acquired Sales Corp.

Acquired Sales Corp. (hereinafter sometimes referred to as "Acquired Sales", the "Company", "AQSP", "Acquired", "we", "us", "our", etc.) was organized under the laws of the State of Nevada on January 2, 1986. In August 2001, we ceased all of our prior operations and remained dormant from then until May 27, 2004 when we began our current development stage activities. We commenced material operations in 2011 and 2012 with our acquisitions, and subsequent sales, of subsidiaries Cogility Software Corporation ("Cogility") and Defense &#38; Security Technology Group, Inc. ("DSTG"), respectively.

Industrial Services Industry

We do not have, and do not expect to have in the foreseeable future, any industrial services sector operations. However, on December 2, 2014, we announced the signing of a letter of intent to acquire an entity called PPV, Inc. ("PPV"), and its wholly-owned subsidiary Bravo Environmental, NW, Inc. ("Bravo"). On February 5, 2015, we also announced the signing of another letter of intent to acquire a related company, River Country Transport, Inc. ("RCT"). Both proposed acquisitions were subject to a number of conditions, including the completion of mutually acceptable due diligence. During the due diligence process, we evaluated information regarding the potential risks and benefits of acquiring PPV, Bravo and RCT. After discussions and negotiations with PPV, Bravo and RCT, we were unable to resolve certain concerns/issues to our satisfaction. As a result, on March 11, 2015, we terminated our letters of intent with PPV and RCT.

One-Seven, LLC

One-Seven, LLC ("One-Seven") is a business investment firm that hopes to make equity and/or debt investments in privately held and/or publicly traded companies from time to time. On October 9, 2015, our chief executive officer, Gerard M. Jacobs, loaned money to One-Seven. On November 4, 2015, we entered into an Agreement with One-Seven, its Managing Partner Douglas Stukel ("Stukel"), and Gerard M. Jacobs pursuant to which we loaned $50,000 interest-free to One-Seven. As of December 31, 2015, $25,000 of the loan had been repaid to us by One-Seven, and the balance of $25,000 was still held by us as a receivable from One-Seven. The loan was repaid in full as of January 5, 2016. In consideration of such $50,000 loan to One-Seven, One-Seven and Stukel agreed that if One-Seven is successful in securing additional funding, then Stukel and One-Seven are obligated to use good faith efforts to work with Gerard M. Jacobs and us, as a team and not as a partnership, joint venture or other entity, in order to explore and hopefully close transactions pursuant to which: (a) One-Seven may provide debt, convertible debt and/or equity to us, all on mutually acceptable terms and conditions; (b) One-Seven may provide debt, convertible debt and/or equity to business entities that may be wholly or partly purchased by, or merged into, the Company, all on mutually acceptable terms and conditions; and (c) Stukel may participate in the management of the Company and obtain a salary and a package of stock options and/or warrants to purchase shares of common stock of the Company, all on mutually acceptable terms and conditions.

There is no assurance that we will consummate any transactions involving One-Seven or Mr. Stukel.

Real Estate Ownership and Development Industry

We continue to have a strong interest in acquiring, and in some cases developing, real estate in the United States, especially real estate that is being used as, or that may be developable as, indoor or outdoor sports facilities, self-storage facilities, manufactured housing communities, RV parks, or apartments/hotels. However, as of the date of this filing, we have not acquired or developed any real property and may not be able to do so in the foreseeable future, if ever. (See ITEM 7. "Management's Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations &#8211; Acquisition of Real Estate in Rhode Island" for a more detailed discussion of our real estate dealings.

Medical Marijuana Industry

We are interested in the rapidly developing marijuana industry in the United States, and potentially in Canada, and from time to time we evaluate potential companies and opportunities involved in the medical marijuana industry. However, through the period ended December 31, 2015, except for dealings with the William Noyes Webster Foundation, Inc. (the "Foundation"), a non-profit Massachusetts corporation, and Jane W. Heatley ("Heatley"), the founder and a member of the board of directors of the Foundation, we have engaged in no business operations, own no assets, and have derived no revenue from the marijuana industry. (See ITEM 7. "Management's Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations -- The William Noyes Webster Foundation, Inc." for a more detailed discussion of our dealings with Heatley and the Foundation.)

There is no assurance that we will consummate any other transactions connected to the medical marijuana industry in the foreseeable future, if ever.

Other Industries

We do not intend to restrict our search for investment opportunities to any particular industry or geographical location and may, therefore, engage in essentially any business. We may consider acquiring companies involved in other industries. We can provide no assurance or guaranty whatsoever that any acquisitions of companies involved in other industries will be consummated on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all.

Acquisition Process

The structure of our participation in business opportunities and ventures will continue to be situational. We may structure future acquisitions as an asset purchase, merger, or an acquisition of securities. It is likely that the anticipated value of the business and/or assets that we acquire relative to the current value of our securities will result in the issuance of a relatively large number of shares and, as a result, substantial additional dilution to the percentage ownership of our current stockholders. Moreover, our present management and shareholders may not have control of a majority of our voting shares following a business acquisition or other reorganization transaction. It is possible that the shareholders of the acquired entity will gain control of our voting stock and our directors may resign and new directors may be appointed without any vote by the shareholders. Those directors are entitled to replace our officers without stockholder vote.

In regard to nearly all of our potential acquisitions, we are typically focused upon acquiring existing privately held businesses whose owners are willing to consider merging their businesses into our Company in order to establish a public trading market for their common stock, and whose management teams are willing to operate the acquired businesses as divisions or subsidiaries of our Company.

Closing such potential acquisitions will likely require to raise millions of dollars of capital, in order to pay the cash portion of the acquisition consideration and in some cases in order to make an injection of cash into the businesses being acquired. We can provide no assurance or guaranty whatsoever that we will be able to raise such millions of dollars of capital on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all. No party has committed to provide such capital to us.

Our chief executive officer will review material furnished to him by the proposed merger or acquisition candidates and will ultimately decide if a merger or acquisition is in our best interests and the interests of our shareholders. We intend to source business opportunities through our chief executive officer and directors and their contacts, and in some cases through finders. These contacts include professional advisors such as attorneys and accountants, securities broker dealers, venture capitalists, members of the financial community, other businesses and others who may present solicited and unsolicited proposals. Management believes that business opportunities and ventures may become available to it due to a number of factors, including, among others: (1) management's willingness to consider a wide variety of businesses; (2) management's historical experience building large public companies; (3) management's contacts and acquaintances; and (4) our flexibility with respect to the manner in which we may be able to structure, finance, merge with or acquire any business opportunity.

The analysis of new business opportunities will be undertaken by or under the supervision of our chief executive officer and directors. Inasmuch as we will have limited funds available to search for business opportunities and ventures, we will not be able to expend significant funds on a complete and exhaustive investigation of such business or opportunity. We will, however, investigate, to the extent believed reasonable by our management, such potential business opportunities or ventures by conducting a so-called "due diligence investigation".

In a due diligence investigation, we intend to obtain and review materials regarding the business opportunity. Typically, such materials will include information regarding a target business' products, services, contracts, management, ownership, and financial information. In addition, we intend to cause our chief executive officer or agents to meet personally with management and key personnel of target businesses, ask questions regarding our prospects, tour facilities, and conduct other reasonable investigation of the target business to the extent of our limited financial resources and management and technical expertise.

There is no guarantee that we can obtain or maintain the funding needed for our operations, including the funds necessary to search for and investigate acquisition candidates, and to close an acquisition including paying the substantial costs of legal, accounting and other relevant professional services.

As of March 16, 2016, we have cash on hand of approximately $17,648, which is less than the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured limit of $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank. In prior years, our payables have been greater than our cash on hand. Moreover, on July 14, 2014, Acquired Sales borrowed $300,000 from the Roberti Jacobs Family Trust (the "Trust"). The Trust is an affiliate of Gerard M. Jacobs, our chief executive officer. The trustee of the Trust is Joan B. Roberti, Mr. Jacobs' mother-in-law, and the beneficiaries of the Trust are Mr. Jacobs' children. The loan was repaid in full on August 5, 2014. We have inconsistent income generating ability and are therefore regularly reliant on raising money from loans or stock sales.

Offices

Our corporate headquarters are located at 31 N. Suffolk Lane, Lake Forest, Illinois 60045. We currently do not have a dedicated corporate office for our Company; however, in the past, our subsidiaries have maintained offices. There are no agreements or understandings with respect to any office facility subsequent to the completion of an acquisition. We may relocate our corporate headquarters in connection with a change in the management of our Company, or in connection with the completion of a merger or acquisition.

&#160;

Employees

Our chief executive officer, Gerard M. Jacobs runs our operations on a part-time basis and is compensated with equity; see Item 11 "Executive Compensation". Mr. Jacobs has not historically received cash compensation or salary deferral, but may receive cash salary in the future. We currently employ one part-time independent contractor, William C. Jacobs, who is the son of our chief executive officer, Gerard M. Jacobs, at the rate of $5,000 per month, plus expenses. We currently have no full-time employees.

In the future, we may engage full-time employees with full-time salaries appropriate to the nature and scope of our future business operations. We expect to continue to use attorneys, accountants and independent contractors as necessary.

Reports to Security Holders

Acquired Sales Corp. is subject to reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. These obligations include an annual report under cover of Form 10-K, with audited financial statements, unaudited quarterly reports, information statements and proxy statements with regard to annual shareholder meetings. The public may read and copy any materials Acquired Sales Corp. files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information of the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0030. The SEC maintains an Internet website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

&#160;

