 Item 1. Busines s 

Overview 

Investors Real Estate Trust (&#x201C;we,&#x201D; &#x201C;us,&#x201D; &#x201C;IRET&#x201D; or the &#x201C;Company&#x201D;) is a self-advised equity Real Estate Investment Trust, or REIT, organized under the laws of North Dakota. Since our formation in 1970, our business has consisted of owning and operating income-producing real estate properties. We are structured as an Umbrella Partnership Real Estate Investment Trust, or UPREIT, and we conduct our day-to-day business operations through our operating partnership, IRET Properties, a North Dakota Limited Partnership (&#x201C;IRET Properties&#x201D; or the &#x201C;Operating Partnership&#x201D;). Our investments mainly consist of multifamily and healthcare properties located primarily in the upper Midwest states of Minnesota and North Dakota. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2016, our real estate investments in these two states accounted for 73.2% of our total gross revenue. Our principal executive office is located in Minot, North Dakota. We also have corporate offices in Minneapolis and St. Cloud, Minnesota, and additional property management offices located in the states where we own properties. 

In January 2015, we announced our intention to sell substantially all of our office and retail properties. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, we classified as held for sale and discontinued operations 48 office properties, 17 retail properties and 1 healthcare property and reduced our number of reportable segments from five to three when our office and retail segments fell below the quantitative thresholds for reporting as reportable segments due to dispositions. During the last quarter of fiscal year 2016, we further reduced our number of reportable segments from three to two due to our industrial segment not meeting the quantitative thresholds. 

As of April 30, 2016, we held for investment 99 multifamily properties containing 12,950 apartment units and having a total real estate investment amount net of accumulated depreciation of $1.0 billion, and 47 commercial properties, consisting of healthcare, industrial, office and retail, containing approximately 2.9 million square feet of leasable space and having a total real estate investment amount net of accumulated depreciation of $333.8 million. As of April 30, 2016, we held for sale 1 multifamily property, 36 commercial properties and 3 parcels of land. On June 6, 2016, we announced our plan to move towards becoming a pure play multifamily REIT and our intention to sell our remaining commercial properties. 

Our multifamily leases are generally for a one-year term. Our commercial properties are typically leased to tenants under long-term lease arrangements. As of April 30, 2016, no individual tenant accounted for more than 10% of our total real estate rentals, although affiliated entities of Edgewood Vista together accounted for approximately 28.4% of our total commercial minimum rents for properties held for investment and for sale. 

Structure 

We were organized under the laws of North Dakota on July 31, 1970, and have operated as a REIT under Sections 856-858 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#x201C;Internal Revenue Code&#x201D;) since our formation. On February 1, 1997, we were restructured as an UPREIT, and have conducted our daily business operations primarily through IRET Properties. 

IRET Properties was organized under the laws of North Dakota pursuant to an Agreement of Limited Partnership dated January 31, 1997. IRET Properties is principally engaged in acquiring, owning, operating and leasing real estate. The sole general partner of IRET Properties is IRET, Inc., a North Dakota corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiary. All of our assets (except for qualified REIT subsidiaries) and liabilities were contributed to IRET Properties, through IRET, Inc., in exchange for the sole general partnership interest in IRET Properties. As of April 30, 2016, IRET, Inc. owned an 88.1% interest in IRET Properties. The remaining ownership of IRET Properties is held by individual limited partners. 

Investment Strategy and Policies 

Our business objective is to increase shareholder value by employing a disciplined investment strategy. This strategy is implemented by growing income-producing assets in desired geographical markets in real estate classes we believe will provide a consistent return on investment for our shareholders. 

2016 Annual Report 4 

We generally use available cash or short-term floating rate debt to acquire real estate. We then replace such cash or short-term floating rate debt with fixed-rate secured debt. In appropriate circumstances, we also may acquire one or more properties in exchange for our common shares of beneficial interest (&#x201C;common shares&#x201D;) or for limited partnership units of IRET Properties (&#x201C;limited partnership units&#x201D; or &#x201C;units&#x201D;), which are convertible, after the expiration of a minimum holding period of one year, into cash or, at our sole discretion, into our common shares on a one-to-one basis. 

Our investment strategy involves investing in multifamily properties and commercial properties that are leased to single or multiple tenants, usually for five years or longer, and are located throughout the upper Midwest. Our commercial properties consist primarily of healthcare. Since January 2015, we have concentrated on multifamily and healthcare property acquisitions, and are now exploring the potential sale of our remaining commercial properties to eventually become a pure play multifamily REIT. We operate mainly within the states of North Dakota and Minnesota, although we also have real estate in Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Wyoming. 

In order to implement our investment strategy we have certain investment policies. Our significant investment policies are as follows: 

Investments in the securities of, or interests in, entities primarily engaged in real estate activities and other securities. While we are permitted to invest in the securities of other entities engaged in the ownership and operation of real estate, as well as other securities, we currently have no plans to make any investments in other securities. 

Any policy, as it relates to investments in other securities, may be changed by a majority of the members of our Board of Trustees at any time without notice to or a vote of our shareholders. 

Investments in real estate or interests in real estate. We currently own multifamily properties and/or commercial properties in ten states. We may invest in real estate, or interests in real estate, located anywhere in the United States. However, we currently plan to focus our investments in those states in which we already have property, with specific concentration in Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota. Similarly, we may invest in any type of real estate or interest in real estate, although we plan to focus new investments in multifamily properties. 

It is not our policy to acquire assets primarily for capital gain through sale in the short term. Rather, it is our policy to acquire assets with an intention to hold such assets for at least a 10-year period. During the holding period, it is our policy to seek current income and capital appreciation through an increase in value of our real estate portfolio, as well as increased revenue as a result of higher rents. 

Any policy, as it relates to investments in real estate or interests in real estate may be changed by our Board of Trustees at any time without notice to, or a vote of, our shareholders. 

Investments in real estate mortgages. While not our primary business focus, from time to time we make loans to others that are secured by mortgages, liens or deeds of trust covering real estate. We have no restrictions on the type of property that may be used as collateral for a mortgage loan, except we may not invest in or make a mortgage loan without obtaining an appraisal concerning the value of the underlying property unless it is a loan insured or guaranteed by a government or a governmental agency. Unless otherwise approved by our Board of Trustees, it is our policy that we will not invest in mortgage loans on any one property if in the aggregate the total indebtedness on the property, including our mortgage, exceeds 85.0% of the property&#x2019;s appraised value. We can invest in junior mortgages without notice to, or the approval of, our shareholders. As of April 30, 2016 and 2015, we had no junior mortgages outstanding. We had no investments in real estate mortgages at April 30, 2016 and 2015. 

Our policies relating to mortgage loans, including second mortgages, may be changed by our Board of Trustees at any time, or from time to time, without notice to, or a vote of, our shareholders. 

2016 Annual Report 5 

Policies Regarding Other Activities 

Our current policies as they pertain to other activities are described as follows: 

Distributions to shareholders and holders of limited partnership units. One of the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code for a REIT is that it distribute 90% of its net taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. There is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. Our distributions meet these requirements. Our general policy has been to make cash distributions to our common shareholders and the holders of limited partnership units of approximately 65.0% to 90.0% of our funds from operations and to use the remaining funds for capital improvements or the purchase of additional properties. This policy may be changed at any time by our Board of Trustees without notice to, or approval of, our shareholders. Distributions to our common shareholders and unitholders in fiscal years 2016 and 2015 totaled approximately 68.4% and 81.3%, respectively, on a per share and unit basis of our funds from operations. 

Issuing senior securities. On April 26, 2004, we issued 1,150,000 shares of 8.25% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest (the &#x201C;Series A preferred shares&#x201D;), and on August 7, 2012, we issued 4,600,000 shares of 7.95% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest (the &#x201C;Series B preferred shares&#x201D;). Depending on future interest rates and market conditions, we may issue additional preferred shares or other senior securities which would have dividend and liquidation preference over our common shares. 

Borrowing money. We rely on borrowed funds in pursuing our investment objectives and goals. It has generally been our policy to borrow up to 65.0% to 75.0% of the appraised value of all new real estate acquired or developed. In the future, we expect this policy will reflect a more conservative approach of up to 50.0% to 65% of the appraised value of all new real estate acquired or developed. This policy concerning borrowed funds is vested solely with our Board of Trustees and can be changed by our Board of Trustees at any time, or from time to time, without notice to, or a vote of, our shareholders. Such policy is subject, however, to the limitation in our Fourth Restated Trustees&#x2019; Regulations (Bylaws) (&#x201C;Bylaws&#x201D;), which provides that unless approved by a majority of the independent members of our Board of Trustees and disclosed to our shareholders in our next quarterly report along with justification for such excess, we may not borrow in excess of 300.0% of our total Net Assets (as such term is used in our Bylaws, which usage is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (&#x201C;GAAP&#x201D;). &#x201C;Net Assets&#x201D; means our total assets at cost before deducting depreciation or other non-cash reserves, less total liabilities. Our Bylaws do not impose any limitation on the amount that we may borrow against any one particular property. As of April 30, 2016, our ratio of total indebtedness to total real estate investments was 63.6% while our ratio of total indebtedness as compared to our Net Assets (computed in accordance with our Bylaws) was 88.2%. 

Offering securities in exchange for property. Our organizational structure allows us to issue shares and to offer limited partnership units of IRET Properties in exchange for real estate. The limited partnership units are convertible into cash, or, at our option, common shares on a one-for-one basis after a minimum one-year holding period. All limited partnership units receive the same cash distributions as those paid on common shares. Limited partners are not entitled to vote on any matters affecting us until their limited partnership units are converted into common shares. 

Our Declaration of Trust, as amended (our &#x201C;Declaration of Trust&#x201D;), does not contain any restrictions on our ability to offer limited partnership units of IRET Properties in exchange for property. As a result, any decision to do so is vested solely in our Board of Trustees. This policy may be changed at any time, or from time to time, without notice to, or a vote of, our shareholders. For the three most recent fiscal years ended April 30, we have issued the following limited partnership units of IRET Properties in exchange for properties: 

(in thousands) 

2015 

Limited partnership units issued 

2,559 

361 

Value at issuance, net of issue costs 

$ 

18,226 

$ 

$ 

3,480 

Acquiring or repurchasing shares. As a REIT, it is our intention to invest only in real estate assets. Our Declaration of Trust does not prohibit the acquisition or repurchase of our common or preferred shares or other securities so long as such activity does not prohibit us from operating as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. Any policy regarding the acquisition or repurchase of shares or other securities is vested solely in our Board of Trustees and may be changed at any time, or from time to time, without notice to, or a vote of, our shareholders. 

2016 Annual Report 6 

During fiscal year 2016, our Board of Trustees authorized a share repurchase program of up to $50.0 million worth of our common shares, under which we repurchased 4.6 million of our outstanding common shares on the open market. We did not repurchase any of our preferred shares. 

Making loans to other persons. Our organizational structure allows us to make loans to other persons, subject to certain conditions and subject to our election to be taxed as a REIT. All loans must be secured by real property or limited partnership units of IRET Properties. We had no investments in real estate mortgages at April 30, 2016 and 2015. 

Investing in the securities of other issuers for the purpose of exercising control. We have not engaged in, and we are not currently engaging in, investment in the securities of other issuers for the purpose of exercising control. Our Declaration of Trust does not impose any limitation on our ability to invest in the securities of other issuers for the purpose of exercising control. Any decision to do so is vested solely in our Board of Trustees and may be changed at any time, or from time to time, without notice to, or a vote of, our shareholders. 

Information about Segments 

We currently operate in two reportable real estate segments: multifamily and healthcare. For further information on these segments and other related information, see Note 11 of our consolidated financial statements as well as Item 2 Properties and Item 7 Management&#x2019;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Employees 

As of April 30, 2016, we had 483 employees, of whom 432 were full-time and 54 were part-time. 58 of these employees were corporate staff located in our Minot, North Dakota and Minneapolis, Minnesota offices, and 428 were property management employees based either at our properties or in local property management offices. 

Environmental Matters and Government Regulation 

Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injuries and investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with any contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on a contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the current owner was responsible for, or even knew of, the presence of such substances. It is generally our policy to obtain from independent environmental consultants a &#x201C;Phase I&#x201D; environmental audit (which involves visual inspection but not soil or groundwater analysis) on all properties that we seek to acquire. We do not believe that any of our properties are subject to any material environmental contamination. However, no assurances can be given that: 

&#xB7; 

a prior owner, operator or occupant of the properties we own or the properties we intend to acquire did not create a material environmental condition not known to us, which might have been revealed by more in-depth study of the properties; and 

&#xB7; 

future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations) will not result in the imposition of environmental liability upon us. 

In addition to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, many other laws and governmental regulations are applicable to our properties, and changes in the laws and regulations, or in their interpretation by agencies and the courts, occur frequently. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the &#x201C;ADA&#x201D;), all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. In addition, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 (the &#x201C;FHAA&#x201D;) requires apartment communities first occupied after March 13, 1990, to be accessible to the handicapped. Non-compliance with the ADA or the FHAA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. We believe that those of our properties to which the ADA and/or FHAA apply are substantially in compliance with present ADA and FHAA requirements. 

2016 Annual Report 7 

Competition 

Investing in and operating real estate is a very competitive business. We compete with other owners and developers of multifamily and commercial properties to attract tenants to our properties. Ownership of competing properties is diversified among other REITs, financial institutions, individuals and public and private companies who are actively engaged in this business. Our multifamily properties compete directly with other rental apartments, as well as with condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent or purchase in the areas in which our properties are located. Our commercial properties compete with other commercial properties for tenants. Additionally, we compete with other real estate investors, including other REITs, pension and investment funds, partnerships and investment companies, to acquire properties. This competition affects our ability to acquire properties we want to add to our portfolio and the price we pay for acquisitions. We do not believe we have a dominant position in any of the geographic markets in which we operate, but some of our competitors may be dominant in selected markets. Many of our competitors have greater financial and management resources than we have. We believe, however, that the geographic diversity of our investments, the experience and abilities of our management, the quality of our assets and the financial strength of many of our commercial tenants affords us some competitive advantages that have in the past and will in the future allow us to operate our business successfully despite the competitive nature of our business. 

Corporate Governance 

Our Board of Trustees has adopted various policies and initiatives to strengthen our corporate governance and increase the transparency of financial reporting. Each of the committees of the Board of Trustees operates under written charters, and our independent trustees meet regularly in executive sessions at which only the independent trustees are present. The Board of Trustees has adopted a Code of Conduct applicable to trustees, officers and employees; adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers; and has established processes for shareholders and all interested parties for communication with the Board of Trustees. 

Additionally, our Audit Committee has established procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, including procedures for the confidential, anonymous submission by our employees of concerns regarding accounting or auditing matters. The Audit Committee also maintains a policy requiring Audit Committee approval of all audit and non-audit services provided to us by our independent registered public accounting firm. 

We will disclose any amendment to our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial officers on our website. In the event we waive compliance with the Code of Ethics or Code of Conduct by any of our trustees or officers, we will disclose such waiver in a Form 8-K filed within four business days. 

Website and Available Information 

Our internet address is www.iret.com. We make available, free of charge, through the &#x201C;SEC filings&#x201D; tab under the Investor Relations/Financial Reporting section of our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Current copies of our Code of Conduct; Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers; and Charters for the Audit, Compensation, Executive and Nominating and Governance Committees of our Board of Trustees are also available on our website under the &#x201C;Corporate Governance&#x201D; tab under the Investor Relations/Corporate Overview section of our website. Copies of these documents are also available to shareholders upon request addressed to the Secretary at Investors Real Estate Trust, P.O. Box 1988, Minot, North Dakota 58702-1988. Information on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

2016 Annual Report 8 

