 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Corporate History 

SunPower has been a leader in the solar industry for 30 years, originally incorporated in California in 1985 and reincorporated in Delaware during 2004 in connection with our initial public offering. In November 2011, our stockholders approved the reclassification of all outstanding former class A common stock and class B common stock into a single class of common stock listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "SPWR." In fiscal 2011, we became a majority owned subsidiary of Total Energies Nouvelles Activit&#233;s USA, formerly known as Total Gas &#38; Power USA, SAS &#32; ("Total"), a subsidiary of Total S.A . &#32;("Total S.A."). 

Company Overview 

We are a leading global energy company dedicated to changing the way our world is powered. We deliver complete solar solutions to residential, commercial, and power plant customers worldwide by offering: 

&#8226; 

Cutting-edge solar module technology and solar power systems that are designed to generate electricity over a system life typically exceeding 25 years; 

&#8226; 

Integrated Smart Energy software solutions that enable customers to effectively manage and optimize their CCOE measurement; 

&#8226; 

Installation, construction, and ongoing maintenance and monitoring services; and 

&#8226; 

Financing solutions that provide customers a variety of options for purchasing or leasing high efficiency solar products at competitive energy rates. 

Our global reach is enhanced by Total S.A.'s long-standing presence in many countries where significant solar installation goals are being established. 

Residential 

Residential Systems 

We offer a complete set of residential solutions that deliver value to homeowners and our dealer partners. We have developed the capability to deliver AC panels with factory-integrated microinverters. AC system architecture, as compared with DC systems, facilitates direct panel installation, eliminating the need to mount or assemble additional components on the roof or the side of a building, driving down systems costs, improving overall system reliability, and providing improved, cleaner design aesthetics. As part of our complete solution approach, we are developing a fully-integrated residential solar platform that will combine solar power production and energy management and will allow residential customers to quickly and easily complete their system installations. 

We offer the SunPower &#174; &#32;InvisiMount &#174; &#32;residential mounting system in our product portfolio. The InvisiMount &#174; &#32;system is designed specifically for use with our panels and reduces installation time through pre-assembled parts and integrated grounding. The InvisiMount system is well-suited for residential sloped roof applications and provides design flexibility and enhanced aesthetics by delivering a unique, "floating" appearance. 

We support our hardware development with investments in our proprietary set of advanced monitoring applications (the "SunPower Monitoring System") and our EnergyLink&#8482; customer portal, which enable customers to gain visibility into their solar system production and household energy consumption. This software is available for use on the web or through the SunPower mobile application on smartphones and tablets. In fiscal 2015, we issued six software upgrades to our EnergyLink customer portal offering and, as a result, have experienced increases in customer traffic, engagement, satisfaction, and referrals. 

Sales Channels, Residential Leasing Program and other Financing Options 

&#32;4 

We sell our residential solar energy solutions to end customers through a variety of means, including cash sales and long-term leases directly to end customers, sales to resellers, including the Company's third-party global dealer network, and sales of the Company's operations and maintenance (&#8220;O&#38;M&#8221;) services. 

We offer financing programs that are designed to offer customers a variety of options to obtain high efficiency solar products and systems, including loans arranged through our third-party lending partners, in some cases for no money down, or by leasing high efficiency solar systems at competitive energy rates. Our residential lease program, in partnership with third-party investors, provides U.S. customers SunPower systems under 20-year lease agreements that include system maintenance and warranty coverage, including warranties on system performance. SunPower residential lease customers have the option to purchase their leased solar systems upon the sale or transfer of their home. These financing options enhance our ability to provide individually-tailored solar solutions to a broad range of residential customers. 

&#32;We also have the ability to sell residential systems to 8point3 Energy Partners LP, a joint Yieldco vehicle in which we have a 40.7% ownership stake, through transactions in which we sell a portfolio of residential leases. For additional information on transactions with 8point3 Energy Partners LP, please see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8212;Note 3. 8point3 Energy Partners LP." 

Commercial 

Commercial Roof and Ground Mounted Systems 

As part of our complete solution product approach, we launched our Helix&#8482; commercial market product. The Helix system is a pre-engineered, modular solution that combines our industry-leading solar module technology with integrated plug-and-play power stations, cable management systems, and mounting hardware that is built to last and fast to install, enabling customers to scale their solar programs quickly with minimal business disruption. The Helix platform is standardized across rooftop, carport and ground installations and designed to lower system cost while improving performance. The Helix platform is also bundled with our Smart Energy software analytics, which provides our customers with detailed information about their energy consumption and production, enabling them to further reduce their energy costs. 

We also offer a variety of commercial solutions designed to address a wide range of site requirements for commercial rooftop, parking lot and open space applications, including a portfolio of solutions utilizing framed panels and a variety of internally or externally developed mounting methods for flat roof and high tilt roof applications. Our commercial flat rooftop systems are designed to be lightweight and interlock, enhancing wind resistance and providing for secure, rapid installations. 

We offer parking lot structures designed specifically for SunPower panels, balance of system components, and inverters and in fiscal 2015 expanded our capability to design and install innovative solar structures and systems for carport applications. These systems are typically custom design-build projects that utilize standard templates and design best practices to create a solution tailored to unique site conditions. SunPower's highest efficiency panels are especially well suited to stand-alone structures, such as those found in parking lot applications, because our systems require less steel and other materials per unit of power or energy produced as compared with our competitors. 

Sales Channels and Financing Options 

We sell our commercial solar energy solutions to commercial and public entity end customers through a variety of means, including direct sales of turn-key engineering, procurement and construction ("EPC") services, sales to the Company's third-party global dealer network and to 8point3 Energy Partners, and sales of the Company's O&#38;M services. We also offer some of our commercial customers alternatives to purchasing systems, such as selling energy to them under power purchase agreements ("PPAs"). 

Power Plants 

Power Plant Systems 

We offer the industry's first modular solar power block, the Oasis &#174; system, which combines SunPower solar panels and tracker technology into a scalable 1.5 MW solar power block, which streamlines the construction process while optimizing the use of available land by conforming to the contours of the production site. The power block kits are shipped pre-assembled to the job site for rapid field installation. The Oasis operating system is designed to support future grid interconnection requirements for large-scale solar power plants, such as voltage ride-through and power factor control. More than 1.5 GW of 

&#32;5 

the Oasis system is installed or under contract worldwide. The Oasis system was deployed at the 748 MW Solar Star Projects in California, formerly known as Antelope Valley Solar Projects, the world's largest solar power project to date. Our robotic solar power plant cleaning system technology has been deployed on many of the utility-scale solar power systems for which we provide O&#38;M services. The robots may be configured for use with a variety of solar panels and mounting types, including fixed-tilt arrays and single access trackers and significantly reduce water use and improve system performance. 

Our single axis tracking systems automatically pivot solar panels to track the sun's movement throughout the day. This tracking feature increases the amount of sunlight that is captured and converted into energy by up to 30% over flat or fixed-tilt systems, depending on geographic location and local climate conditions. A single motor and drive mechanism can control 10 to 20 rows, or more than 200 KW, of solar panels. This multi-row feature represents a cost advantage for our customers over dual axis tracking systems, as such systems require more motors, drives, land, and power to operate per KW of capacity. 

Our solar concentrator, LCPV, combines a horizontal single-axis tracker with rows of parabolic mirrors, reflecting light onto linear arrays of our high efficiency solar cells. The SunPower cell is uniquely suited for this application due to its extremely high efficiency under low levels of concentration. Similar to the Oasis system, the LCPV components come factory preassembled, enabling rapid installation using standard tools and requiring no specialized field expertise. 

Utility-Scale Solar Power System Construction and Development 

Our global project teams have established a scalable, fully integrated, vertical approach to constructing and developing utility-scale photovoltaic power plants in a sustainable way. Our industry experienced power plant development and project finance teams evaluate sites for solar developments; obtain land rights through purchase and lease options; conduct environmental and grid transmission studies; and obtain building, construction and grid-interconnection permits, licenses, and regulatory approvals. 

We enter into turnkey EPC agreements with customers under which we design, engineer, construct, commission, and deliver functioning rooftop- and ground-mounted solar power systems. This includes the development, execution, and sale of solar power plants, which generally include the sale or lease of related real estate. Under such development projects, the plants and project development rights, initially owned by us, are later sold to third parties. In the United States, commercial and electric utility customers typically choose to purchase solar electricity under a PPA with an investor or financing company that buys the system from us. In other areas, such as the Middle East, Africa, and South America, projects are typically purchased by an investor or financing company and operated as central-station solar power plants. 

Sales Channels and Financing 

Our power plant business refers to sales of our large-scale solar products and systems, including power plant project development and project sales, EPC services for power plant construction, power plant O&#38;M services and component sales for power plants developed by third parties, sometimes on a multi-year, firm commitment basis. Our utility-scale solar power systems are typically purchased by an investor or financing company and operated as central-station solar power plants. We also sell utility-scale solar power plants to 8point3 Energy Partners. 

We are able to utilize various means to finance our utility-scale power plant development and construction projects, which include arranging tax equity financing structures, utilizing non-recourse project debt facilities, and executing our HoldCo strategy in conjunction with project sales to 8point3 Energy Partners. 

Operations and Maintenance 

Our solar power systems are designed to generate electricity over a system life typically exceeding 25 years. We offer our customers various levels of post-installation O&#38;M services with the objective of optimizing our customers' electrical energy production over the life of the system. The terms and conditions of post-installation O&#38;M services may provide for remote monitoring of system production and performance, including providing performance reports, preventative maintenance, including solar module cleanings, corrective maintenance, and rapid-response outage restoration, including repair or replacement of all system components covered under warranty or major maintenance agreements. 

We incorporate leading information technology platforms to facilitate the management of our solar power systems operating worldwide. Real-time flow of data from our customers' sites is aggregated centrally where an engine applies advanced solar specific algorithms to detect and report potential performance issues. Our work management system routes any anomalies to the appropriate responders to help ensure timely resolution. Our performance model, PVSim, was developed over the last 20 years and has been audited by independent engineers. Solar panel performance coefficients are established through 

&#32;6 

independent third-party testing. The SunPower Monitoring System also provides customers real-time performance status of their solar power system, with access to historical or daily system performance data through our customer website (www.sunpowermonitor.com). The SunPower Monitoring System is available through applications on Apple&#174; and Android&#8482; devices. Some customers choose to install "digital signs" or kiosks to display system performance information from the lobby of their facility. We believe these displays enhance our brand and educate the public and prospective customers about solar power. 

We typically provide a system output performance warranty, separate from our standard solar panel product warranty, to customers that have subscribed to our post-installation O&#38;M services. The system output performance warranty expires upon termination of the post-installation O&#38;M services related to the system. In connection with system output performance warranties, we agree to pay liquidated damages in the event the system does not perform to the stated specifications, with certain exclusions. The warranty excludes system output shortfalls attributable to force majeure events, customer curtailment, irregular weather, and other similar factors. In the event that the system output falls below the warrantied performance level during the applicable warranty period, and provided that the shortfall is not caused by a factor that is excluded from the performance warranty, the warranty provides that SunPower will pay the customer an amount based on the value of the shortfall of energy produced relative to the applicable warrantied performance level. For leased systems, we provide a system output performance warranty with similar terms and conditions as that for non-leased systems. 

We calculate our expectation of system output performance based on a particular system&#8217;s design specifications, including the type of panels used, the type of inverters used, site irradiation measures derived from historical weather data, our historical experience as a manufacturer, EPC services provider, and project developer as well as other unique design considerations such as system shading. The warrantied system output performance level varies by system depending on the characteristics of the system and the negotiated agreement with the customer, and the level declines over time to account for the expected degradation of the system. Actual system output is typically measured annually for purposes of determining whether warrantied performance levels have been met. 

Our primary remedy for the system output performance warranty is our ongoing O&#38;M services which enable us to quickly identify and remediate potential issues before they have a significant impact on system performance. We also have remedies in the form of our standard product warranties and third-party original equipment manufacturer warranties that cover certain components, such as inverters, to prevent potential losses under our system output performance warranties or to minimize further losses. 

Technology 

We believe that we possess a technological advantage as the leading manufacturer of back-contact, back-junction cells that enables our panels to produce more electricity, last longer and resist degradation more effectively. We believe that our technology allows us to deliver: 

&#8226; 

superior performance, including the ability to generate up to 50% more power per unit area than conventional solar cells; 

&#8226; 

superior aesthetics, with our uniformly black surface design that eliminates highly visible reflective grid lines and metal interconnection ribbons; 

&#8226; 

superior reliability, as confirmed by multiple independent reports and internal reliability data; 

&#8226; 

superior energy production per rated watt of power, as confirmed by multiple independent reports; and 

&#8226; 

solar power systems that are designed to generate electricity over a system life typically exceeding 25 years. 

With industry-leading conversion efficiencies, we continuously improve our Maxeon &#174; &#32;solar cells and believe they perform better and are tested more extensively to deliver maximum return on investment when compared with the products of our competitors. 

Panels 

Solar panels are solar cells electrically connected together and encapsulated in a weatherproof panel. Solar cells are semiconductor devices that convert sunlight into direct current electricity. Our solar cells are designed without highly reflective metal contact grids or current collection ribbons on the front of the solar cell, which provides additional efficiency and allows our solar cells to be assembled into solar panels with a more uniform appearance. Our X-Series solar panels, made with our Maxeon Gen 3 solar cells, have demonstrated average panel efficiencies exceeding 22% in high-volume production. In fiscal 

&#32;7 

2015, one of our standard production modules set a world record for aperture area efficiency as tested by National Renewable Energy Laboratory ("NREL"). We believe our X-Series solar panels are the highest efficiency solar panels available for the mass market, and we continue to focus on increasing cell efficiency even as we produce solar cells with over 25% efficiency in a lab setting. Because our solar cells are more efficient relative to conventional solar cells, when our solar cells are assembled into panels, the assembly cost per watt is less because more power can be incorporated into a given size panel. Higher solar panel efficiency allows installers to mount a solar power system with more power within a given roof or site area and can reduce per watt installation costs. Our suite of SunPower solar panels provides customers a variety of features to fit their needs, including the SunPower &#174; &#32;Signature &#8482; &#32;Black design which allows the panels to blend seamlessly into the rooftop. We offer panels that can be used both with inverters that require transformers as well as with the highest performing transformer-less inverters to maximize output. Both our X-Series and E-Series panels have proven performance with low levels of degradation, as validated by third-party performance tests. Additionally, in fiscal 2015, we announced the development of a new line of solar panels under the Performance Series product name. The new products utilize a proprietary manufacturing process to assemble conventional silicon solar cells into panels with increased efficiency and reliability compared with conventional panels. Designed to target a new set of customers and global markets, we expect that the Performance Series panels will be available in all three of SunPower&#8217;s business segments starting in fiscal 2016. 

Balance of System Components 

"Balance of system components" are components of a solar power system other than the solar panels, and include mounting structures, charge controllers, grid interconnection equipment, and other devices, depending on the specific requirements of a particular system and project. We possess advanced module-level control electronics in our technology portfolio that enable longer series strings and significant balance of system components cost reductions in large arrays. 

Inverters 

Every solar power system needs an inverter to transform the direct current electricity collected from the solar panels into utility-grade AC power that is ready for use. We sell inverters manufactured by third parties, some of which are SunPower-branded. We also have integrated microinverter technology that converts DC generated by a single solar photovoltaic panel into AC directly on the panel. We are utilizing this technology to develop next generation microinverters for use with our high efficiency solar panels. Panels with these factory-integrated microinverters perform better in shaded applications compared to conventional string inverters and allow for optimization and monitoring at the solar panel level, enabling maximum energy production by the solar system. 

Warranties 

SunPower provides a 25-year standard solar panel product warranty for defects in materials and workmanship. The solar panel product warranty also warrants that the panel will provide 95% of the panel&#8217;s minimum peak power rating for the first five years, declining due to expected degradation by no more than 0.4% per year for the following 20 years, such that the power output at the end of year 25 will be at least 87% of the panel&#8217;s minimum peak power rating. Our warranty provides that we will repair or replace any defective solar panels during the warranty period. We also pass through long-term warranties from the original equipment manufacturers of certain system components to customers for periods ranging from five to 20 years. In addition, we generally warrant our workmanship on installed systems for periods ranging up to 25 years. 

Smart Energy 

We see &#8220;Smart Energy&#8221; as a way to harness our world&#8217;s energy potential by connecting the most powerful and reliable solar systems on the market with an increasingly vast array of actionable data that can help our customers make smarter decisions about their energy use. Our Smart Energy initiative is designed to add layers of intelligent control to homes, buildings and grids&#8212;all personalized through easy-to-use customer interfaces. In order to enhance the portfolio of Smart Energy solutions we offer, we continue to invest in integrated technology solutions to help customers manage and optimize their CCOE measurement. 

We have an investment in Tendril Networks, Inc. and have licensed its data-driven Energy Services Management Platform. We believe that this open, cloud-based software platform provides the infrastructure, analytics and understanding required to power the development of new Smart Energy applications that will deliver personalized energy services to our residential customers. 

We have also negotiated several agreements with residential and commercial energy storage providers to integrate storage technology into our residential and commercial solar solutions. By combining storage with energy management, we 

&#32;8 

lower our customers' cost of energy through improvements in self-consumption, rate arbitrage, demand management, and grid and market participation. We continue to work to make combined solar and storage solutions broadly commercially available. 

We are developing next generation microinverters for use with our high efficiency solar panels in order to enhance our portfolio of Smart Energy solutions. Panels with these factory-integrated microinverters can convert direct current generated by the solar panel into alternating current, enabling optimization and monitoring at the solar panel level to ensure maximum energy production by the solar system. 

Research and Development 

We engage in extensive research and development efforts to improve solar cell efficiency through enhancement of our existing products, development of new techniques, and reducing manufacturing cost and complexity. Our research and development group works closely with our manufacturing facilities, our equipment suppliers and our customers to improve our solar cell design and to lower solar cell, solar panel and system product manufacturing and assembly costs. In addition, we have dedicated employees who work closely with our current and potential suppliers of crystalline silicon, a key raw material used in the manufacture of our solar cells, to develop specifications that meet our standards and ensure the high quality we require, while at the same time controlling costs. Under our Research &#38; Collaboration Agreement with Total, our majority stockholder, we have established a joint committee to engage in long-term research and development projects with continued focus on maintaining and expanding our technology position in the crystalline silicon domain and ensuring our competitiveness. Please see "Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Research and Development." 

Supplier Relationships, Manufacturing, and Panel Assembly 

We purchase polysilicon, ingots, wafers, solar cells, balance of system components, and inverters from various manufacturers, including our joint venture, AUO SunPower Sdn. Bhd. ("AUOSP"), on both a contracted and a purchase order basis. We have contracted with some of our suppliers for multi-year supply agreements. Under such agreements, we have annual minimum purchase obligations and in certain cases prepayment obligations. We have certain purchase obligations under our material supply agreement with AUOSP, which is a supplier of our cells. This material supply contract has a remaining term of two years and does not contain prepayment obligations. Please see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Contractual Obligations" for further information regarding the amount of our purchase obligations in fiscal 2016 and beyond. Under other supply agreements, we are required to make prepayments to vendors over the terms of the arrangements. As of January 3, 2016 , advances to suppliers totaled $359.1 million . We may be unable to recover such prepayments if the credit conditions of these suppliers materially deteriorate. For further information regarding our future prepayment obligations, please see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8212;Note 10 . Commitments and Contingencies&#8212;Advances to Suppliers." We currently believe our supplier relationships and various short- and long-term contracts will afford us the volume of material and services required to meet our planned output. For more information about risks related to our supply chain, please see "Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Related to Our Supply Chain." 

We are working with our suppliers and partners along all steps of the value chain to reduce costs by improving manufacturing technologies and expanding economies of scale. Crystalline silicon is the principal commercial material for solar cells and is used in several forms, including single-crystalline, or monocrystalline silicon, multicrystalline, or polycrystalline silicon, ribbon and sheet silicon, and thin-layer silicon. Our solar cell value chain starts with high purity silicon called polysilicon. Polysilicon is created by refining quartz or sand. 

&#160; 

Polysilicon is melted and grown into crystalline ingots and sawed into wafers by business partners specializing in those processes. The wafers are processed into solar cells in our manufacturing facility located in the Philippines and by our joint venture, AUOSP, located in Malaysia. The solar cell manufacturing facility we own and operate in the Philippines has a total rated annual capacity of over 700 MW. AUOSP currently operates a solar cell manufacturing facility with a total rated annual capacity of over 800 MW. We also own a 222,000 square foot building in the Philippines that we are building out as an additional solar cell manufacturing facility with a planned annual capacity of 350 MW once fully operational, which is expected to occur in fiscal 2016; initial production launched during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. 

We use our solar cells to manufacture our solar panels at our solar panel assembly facilities located in the Philippines, Mexico and France. Our solar panel manufacturing facilities have a combined total rated annual capacity of close to 1.8 GW. Our solar panels are also assembled for us by third-party contract manufacturers in California and China. 

&#32;9 

We source the solar panels and balance of system components based on quality, performance, and cost considerations both internally and from third-party suppliers. We typically assemble proprietary components, while we purchase generally available components from third-party suppliers. The balance of system components, along with the EPC cost to construct the project, can comprise as much as two-thirds of the cost of a solar power system. Therefore, we focus on standardizing our products with the goal of driving down installation costs, such as with our SunPower &#174; &#32;Oasis &#174; &#32;system. 

Customers 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, in connection with a realignment of its internal organizational structure, the Company changed its segment reporting from its Americas, EMEA and APAC Segments to three end-customer segments: (i) Residential Segment, (ii) Commercial Segment and (iii) Power Plant Segment. See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8212;Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#8212;Note 1. The Company and Summary of its Accounting Policies" for additional information. The Residential and Commercial Segments combined are referred to as Distributed Generation. Our scope and scale allow us to deliver solar solutions across all segments, ranging from consumer homeowners to the largest commercial and governmental entities in the world. Our customers typically include investors, financial institutions, project developers, electric utilities, independent power producers, commercial and governmental entities, production home builders, residential owners and small commercial building owners. We leverage a combination of direct sales as well as a broad partner ecosystem to efficiently reach our global customer base. 

We work with development, construction, system integration, and financing companies to deliver our solar power products and solutions to wholesale sellers, retail sellers, and retail users of electricity. In the United States, commercial and electric utility customers typically choose to purchase solar electricity under a PPA with an investor or financing company that buys the system from us. End-user customers typically pay the investors and financing companies over an extended period of time based on energy they consume from the solar power systems, rather than paying for the full capital cost of purchasing the solar power systems. Our utility-scale solar power systems are typically purchased by an investor or financing company, such as 8point3 Energy Partners, and operated as central-station solar power plants. In addition, our third-party global dealer network and our new homes division have deployed thousands of SunPower rooftop solar power systems to residential customers. Please see "Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Revenue" for our significant customers. 

Competition 

The market for solar electric power technologies is competitive and continually evolving. We expect to face increased competition, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share. Our solar power products and systems compete with many competitors in the solar power market, including, but not limited to: 

&#8226; 

Residential and Commercial: Canadian Solar Inc., Hanwha Corporation, JA Solar Holdings Co., Kyocera Corporation, LG Corporation, Mitsubishi Corporation, NRG Energy, Inc., Panasonic Corporation, Recurrent Energy, Sharp Corporation, SolarCity Corporation, SolarWorld AG, SunEdison Inc., Sungevity, Inc., SunRun, Inc., Trina Solar Ltd., Vivint, Inc., and Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. Ltd. 

&#8226; 

Utility and Power Plant: Abengoa Solar S.A., Acciona Energia S.A., AES Solar Energy Ltd., Chevron Energy Solutions (a subsidiary of Chevron Corporation), EDF Energy plc, First Solar Inc., NextEra Energy, Inc., NRG Energy, Inc., Sempra Energy, Silverado Power LLC., Skyline Solar, Inc., Solargen Energy, Inc., Solaria Corporation, SunEdison, and Tenaska, Inc. 

We also face competition from resellers that have developed related offerings that compete with our product and service offerings, or have entered into strategic relationships with other existing solar power system providers. We compete for limited government funding for research and development contracts, customer tax rebates and other programs that promote the use of solar, and other renewable forms of energy with other renewable energy providers and customers. 

In addition, universities, research institutions, and other companies have brought to market alternative technologies, such as thin films, which compete with our technology in certain applications. Furthermore, the solar power market in general competes with conventional fossil fuels supplied by utilities and other sources of renewable energy such as wind, hydro, biomass, solar thermal, and emerging distributed generation technologies such as micro-turbines, sterling engines and fuel cells. 

In the large-scale on-grid solar power systems market, we face direct competition from a number of companies, including those that manufacture, distribute, or install solar power systems as well as construction companies that have expanded into the renewable sector. In addition, we will occasionally compete with distributed generation equipment suppliers. 

&#32;10 

We believe that the key competitive factors in the market for solar systems include: 

&#8226; 

total system price; 

&#8226; 

LCOE evaluation; 

&#8226; 

CCOE evaluation; 

&#8226; 

power efficiency and performance; 

&#8226; 

aesthetic appearance of solar panels and systems; 

&#8226; 

speed and ease of installation through modular solutions such as Oasis and Helix systems; 

&#8226; 

strength of distribution relationships; 

&#8226; 

availability of third-party financing and investments; 

&#8226; 

established sales channels to customers such as 8point3 Energy Partners; 

&#8226; 

timeliness of new product introductions; 

&#8226; 

bankability, strength, and reputation of our company; and 

&#8226; 

warranty protection, quality, and customer service. 

We believe that we can compete favorably with respect to each of these elements, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to larger companies with broader product lines, greater technical service and support capabilities, and financial resources. For more information on risks related to our competition, please see the risk factors set forth under the caption "Item 1A. Risk Factors" including "Risks Related to Our Sales Channels&#8212;The increase in the global supply of solar cells and panels, and increasing competition, may cause substantial downward pressure on the prices of such products and cause us to lose sales or market share, resulting in lower revenues, earnings, and cash flows." 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret, trademark, and contractual protections to establish and protect our proprietary rights. "SunPower" and the "SunPower" logo are our registered trademarks in countries throughout the world for use with solar cells, solar panels and mounting systems. We also hold registered trademarks for, among others, "Maxeon", "Oasis", "EnergyLink", "Helix", "InvisiMount", "Serengeti", "Smarter Solar", "Solar Showdown", "SunTile", "SunPower Electric", "SuPo Solar", "Tenesol", "Greenbotics", "PowerLight", "More Energy. For Life.", "The Planet's Most Powerful Solar", "The World's Standard for Solar", and "Use More Sun" in certain countries. We are seeking and will continue to seek registration of the "SunPower" trademark and other trademarks in additional countries as we believe is appropriate. As of January 3, 2016, we held registrations for 28 trademarks in the United States, and had 14 trademark registration applications pending. We also held 149 trademark registrations and had over 34 trademark applications pending in foreign jurisdictions. We typically require our business partners to enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements before we disclose any sensitive aspects of our solar cells, technology, or business plans. We typically enter into proprietary information agreements with employees, consultants, vendors, customers, and joint venture partners. 

We own multiple patents and patent applications that cover aspects of the technology in the solar cells, mounting products, and electrical and electronic systems that we currently manufacture and market. We continue to file for and receive new patent rights on a regular basis. The lifetime of a utility patent typically extends for 20 years from the date of filing with the relevant government authority. We assess appropriate opportunities for patent protection of those aspects of our technology, designs, methodologies, and processes that we believe provide significant competitive advantages to us, and for licensing opportunities of new technologies relevant to our business. As of January 3, 2016 , we held 324 patents in the United States, which will expire at various times through 2033, and had 370 U.S. patent applications pending. We also held 271 patents and had 690 patent applications pending in foreign jurisdictions. While patents are an important element of our intellectual property strategy, our business as a whole is not dependent on any one patent or any single pending patent application. We additionally rely on trade secret rights to protect our proprietary information and know-how. We employ proprietary processes and customized equipment in our manufacturing facilities. We therefore require employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements to protect them. 

&#32;11 

When appropriate, we enforce our intellectual property rights against other parties. For more information about risks related to our intellectual property, please see the risk factors set forth under the caption "Item 1A. Risk Factors" including "Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property&#8212;We depend on our intellectual property, and we may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and could result in the loss of significant rights," "Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property&#8212;We rely substantially upon trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights, and, if these rights are not sufficiently protected, our ability to compete and generate revenue could suffer," and "Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property&#8212;We may not obtain sufficient patent protection on the technology embodied in the solar products we currently manufacture and market, which could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses." 

Backlog 

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of our future business prospects. In the residential and commercial markets we often sell large volumes of solar panel, mounting systems, and other solar equipment to third parties, which are typically ordered by our third-party global dealer network and customers under standard purchase orders with relatively short delivery lead-times. We often require project financing for development and construction of our solar power plant projects, which require significant investments before the equity is later sold to investors. Our solar power system project backlog would therefore exclude sales contracts signed and completed in the same quarter and contracts still conditioned upon obtaining financing. Based on these reasons, we believe backlog at any particular date is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of our future revenue for any particular period of time. 

Regulations 

Public Policy Considerations 

Different policy mechanisms have been used by governments to accelerate the adoption of solar power. Examples of customer-focused financial mechanisms include capital cost rebates, performance-based incentives, feed-in tariffs, tax credits, and net metering. Some of these government mandates and economic incentives are scheduled to be reduced or to expire, or could be eliminated altogether. Capital cost rebates provide funds to customers based on the cost and size of a customer&#8217;s solar power system. Performance-based incentives provide funding to a customer based on the energy produced by their solar power system. Feed-in tariffs pay customers for solar power system generation based on energy produced, at a rate generally guaranteed for a period of time. Tax credits reduce a customer&#8217;s taxes at the time the taxes are due. Net metering allows customers to deliver to the electric grid any excess electricity produced by their on-site solar power systems, and to be credited for that excess electricity at or near the full retail price of electricity. 

In addition to the mechanisms described above, new market development mechanisms to encourage the use of renewable energy sources continue to emerge. For example, many states in the United States have adopted renewable portfolio standards which mandate that a certain portion of electricity delivered to customers come from eligible renewable energy resources. In certain developing countries, governments are establishing initiatives to expand access to electricity, including initiatives to support off-grid rural electrification using solar power. For more information about how we avail ourselves of the benefits of public policies and the risks related to public policies, please see the risk factors set forth under the caption "Item 1A. Risk Factors" including "Risks Related to Our Sales Channels&#8212;The reduction, modification or elimination of government incentives could cause our revenue to decline and harm our financial results," and "Risks Related to Our Sales Channels&#8212;Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory, and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products and services." 

Environmental Regulations 

We use, generate, and discharge toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development, manufacturing, and construction activities. We are subject to a variety of foreign, U.S. federal and state, and local governmental laws and regulations related to the purchase, storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials. We believe that we have all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business and expect to obtain all necessary environmental permits for future activities. We believe that we have properly handled our hazardous materials and wastes and have appropriately remediated any contamination at any of our premises. For more information about risks related to environmental regulations, please see the risk factors set forth under the caption "Item 1A. Risk Factors" including "Risks Related to Our Operations&#8212;Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines." 

&#32;12 

The Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 

Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), requires us to disclose whether Total S.A. or any of its affiliates (collectively, the &#8220;Total Group&#8221;) engaged during the 2015 calendar year in certain Iran-related activities. While the Total Group has not engaged in any activity that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to subparagraphs (A), (B) or (C) of Section 13(r)(1), affiliates of Total S.A. may be deemed to have engaged in certain transactions or dealings with the government of Iran that would require disclosure pursuant to Section 13(r)(1)(D), as discussed below. Unless otherwise noted, all foreign currency translations to U.S. dollars in this section are made using exchange rates as of January 3, 2016. 

Upstream 

The Total Group has no upstream activities in Iran and maintains a local office in Iran solely for non-operational functions. Some payments are yet to be reimbursed to the Total Group with respect to past expenditures and remuneration under buyback contracts entered into between 1997 and 1999 with the National Iranian Oil Company (&#8220;NIOC&#8221;) for the development of the South Pars 2&#38;3 and Dorood fields. With respect to these contracts, development operations were completed in 2010 and the Total Group is no longer involved in the operation of these fields. In 2015, Total E&#38;P Iran (100%), Elf Petroleum Iran (99.8%), Total Sirri (100%) and Total South Pars (99.8%) collectively made payments of approximately IRR 4 billion (approximately $0.1 million ) to (i) the Iranian administration for taxes and social security contributions concerning the personnel of the aforementioned local office and residual buyback contract-related obligations, and (ii) Iranian public entities for payments with respect to the maintenance of the aforementioned local office ( e.g. , utilities, telecommunications). Total S.A. expects similar payments to be made by these affiliates in 2016. Neither revenues nor profits were recognized from the aforementioned activities in 2015. 

In the context of the future suspension of part of the sanctions targeting Iran following the adoption of the JCPOA on July 14, 2015, there were contacts in 2015 between representatives of certain wholly-owned affiliates of Total S.A and representatives of the Iranian Government and NIOC within the framework of delegations organized by French authorities or during public international events. During the course of these contacts, such affiliates received in 2015 verbal information of a general nature concerning certain oil and gas fields and projects in Iran and no information not permitted by applicable international economic sanctions was provided to Iranian authorities for the development of Iranian hydrocarbons. Neither Total S.A. nor any of its affiliates recognized any revenue or profit from this activity in 2015, and, in compliance with the remaining applicable international economic sanctions, similar discussions are expected in the future. 

Total E&#38;P UK Limited (&#8220;TEP UK&#8221;), a wholly-owned affiliate of Total S.A., holds a 43.25% interest in a joint venture at the Bruce field in the United Kingdom with BP Exploration Operating Company Limited (37.5%, operator), BHP Billiton Petroleum Great Britain Ltd (16%) and Marubeni Oil &#38; Gas (North Sea) Limited (3.75%). This joint venture is party to an agreement (the &#8220;Bruce Rhum Agreement&#8221;) governing certain transportation, processing and operation services provided to a joint venture at the Rhum field in the UK that is co-owned by BP (50%, operator) and the Iranian Oil Company UK Ltd (&#8220;IOC&#8221;), a subsidiary of NIOC (50%) (together, the &#8220;Rhum Owners&#8221;). TEP UK owns and operates the Frigg UK Association pipeline and St Fergus Gas Terminal and is party to an agreement governing provision of transportation and processing services to the Rhum Owners (the &#8220;Rhum FUKA Agreement&#8221;) (the Bruce Rhum Agreement and the Rhum FUKA Agreement being referred to collectively as the &#8220;Rhum Agreements&#8221;). To Total S.A.&#8217;s knowledge, provision of all services under the Rhum Agreements was initially suspended in November 2010, when the Rhum field stopped production following the adoption of EU sanctions, other than critical safety-related services ( i.e. , monitoring and marine inspection of the Rhum facilities), which were permitted by EU sanctions regulations. On October 22, 2013, the UK government notified IOC of its decision to apply a temporary management scheme to IOC&#8217;s interest in the Rhum field within the meaning of UK Regulations 3 and 5 of the Hydrocarbons (Temporary Management Scheme) Regulations 2013 (the &#8220;Hydrocarbons Regulations&#8221;). Since that date all correspondence in respect of IOC&#8217;s interest in the Rhum Agreements has been with the UK government in its capacity as temporary manager of IOC&#8217;s interests and TEP UK has had no contact with IOC in 2015 regarding the Rhum Agreements. On December 6, 2013, the UK government authorized TEP UK, among others, under Article 43a of EU Regulation 267/2012, as amended by 1263/2012 and under Regulation 9 of the Hydrocarbons Regulations, to carry out activities in relation to the operation and production of the Rhum field. In addition, on September 4, 2013, the U.S. Treasury Department issued a license to BP authorizing BP and certain others to engage in various activities relating to the operation and production of the Rhum field. Following receipt of all necessary authorizations, the Rhum field resumed production on October 26, 2014 with IOC&#8217;s interest in the Rhum field and the Rhum Agreements subject to the UK government&#8217;s temporary management pursuant to the Hydrocarbons Regulations. Services have been provided by TEP UK under the Rhum Agreements since that date and TEP UK has received tariff income from BP and the UK government (in its capacity as temporary manager of IOC&#8217;s interest in the Rhum field) in accordance with the terms of the Rhum Agreements. In 2015, these activities generated for TEP UK gross revenue of 

&#32;13 

approximately &#163;4.6 million (approximately $6.8 million ) and net profit of approximately &#163;1.4 million (approximately $2.1 million ). On August 27, 2015, TEP UK signed a sale and purchase agreement to divest its entire interest in the Frigg UK Association pipeline and St Fergus Gas Terminal to NSMP Operations Limited (&#8220;NSMP&#8221;). TEP UK expects this transaction to complete on or around March 1, 2016. Upon completion of the divestment, TEP UK&#8217;s interest in the Rhum FUKA Agreement will be novated to NSMP whereupon TEP UK&#8217;s only interest in the Rhum FUKA Agreement will be in relation to the settlement of historical force majeure &#32;claims with the Rhum Owners relating to the period when the Rhum field was shut down. Subject to the foregoing, TEP UK intends to continue such activities so long as they continue to be permissible under UK and EU law and not be in breach of remaining applicable international economic sanctions. 

Downstream 

The Total Group does not own or operate any refineries or chemicals plants in Iran and did not purchase Iranian hydrocarbons when prohibited by applicable EU and U.S. economic and financial sanctions. Hutchinson, a wholly-owned affiliate of Total S.A., conducted, in conjunction with a delegation of international companies (F&#233;d&#233;ration des Industries des Equipements pour V&#233;hicules), two visits in Iran in 2015 to discuss business opportunities in the Iranian car industry sector with several companies, including some having direct or indirect ties to the government of Iran. Hutchinson recognized no revenue or profit from this activity in 2015 and expects to continue such discussions in the future. 

Until December 2012, at which time it sold its entire interest, the Total Group held a 50% interest in the lubricants retail company Beh Total (now named Beh Tam) along with Behran Oil (50%), a company controlled by entities with ties to the government of Iran. As part of the sale of the Total Group&#8217;s interest in Beh Tam, Total S.A. agreed to license the trademark &#8220;Total&#8221; to Beh Tam for an initial three-year period for the sale by Beh Tam of lubricants to domestic consumers in Iran. In 2014, Total E&#38;P Iran (&#8220;TEPI&#8221;), a wholly-owned affiliate of Total S.A., received, on behalf of Total S.A., royalty payments of approximately IRR 24 billion (nearly $1 million based on an average daily exchange rate of $1 = IRR 0.000039 during 2014, as published by Bloomberg) from Beh Tam for such license. These payments were based on Beh Tam&#8217;s sales of lubricants during the previous calendar year. In 2015, royalty payments were suspended due to an adjustment procedure concerning these payments brought by the Iranian tax authorities against TEPI, which TEPI expects will be settled in 2016. Therefore, TEPI expects royalty payments may resume in 2016. In addition, representatives of the Total Group and Beh Tam met several times in 2015 to discuss the local lubricants market and further discussions are expected to take place in the future. 

Total Liban, a Lebanese company wholly-owned by the Total Group, is a member of a consortium with five other companies for the purpose of providing services for fueling facilities at Beirut International Airport to the members of the consortium. The consortium members assume, for a rotating three-year term, ministerial and administrative responsibilities (including supervision of fuel services) in connection with the consortium. Until October 2015, Total Liban served in this capacity. During this period, another consortium member had a fuel supply contract with Iran Air (and was compensated for fuel sales to Iran Air). Total Liban did not receive, directly or indirectly, any profit or remuneration in connection with the fuel sold to Iran Air by this other consortium member. 

Total Marketing Middle East FZE (&#8220;TMME&#8221;), a wholly-owned affiliate of the Total Group, sold lubricants to Beh Tam in 2015. The sale in 2015 of approximately 299 tons of lubricants and special fluids generated gross revenue of approximately AED 2 million (approximately $0.5 million ) and net profit of approximately AED 1.7 million (approximately $0.5 million ). TMME expects to continue this activity in 2016. 

Total Marketing France (&#8220;TMF&#8221;), a French company wholly-owned by Total Marketing Services, itself a French company wholly-owned by Total S.A. and six Total Group employees, provided in 2015 fuel payment cards to the Iranian embassy in France for use in the Total Group&#8217;s service stations. In 2015, these activities generated gross revenue of approximately &#8364;25,000 (approximately $27,177 ) and net profit of approximately &#8364;1,000 (approximately $1,087 ). TMF expects to continue this activity in 2016. 

Total Belgium (&#8220;TB&#8221;), a Belgian company wholly-owned by the Total Group, provided in 2015 fuel payment cards to the Iranian embassy in Brussels for use in the Total Group&#8217;s service stations. In 2015, these activities generated gross revenue of approximately &#8364;23,100 (approximately $25,112 ) and net profit of approximately &#8364;1,600 (approximately $1,739 ). TB expects to continue this activity in 2016. 

&#32;14 

Proxifuel, a Belgian company wholly-owned by the Total Group, sold in 2015 heating oil to the Iranian embassy in Brussels. In 2015, these activities generated gross revenue of approximately &#8364;2,400 (approximately $2,609 ) and net profit of approximately &#8364;200 (approximately $217 ). Proxifuel expects to continue this activity in 2016. 

Caldeo, a French company wholly-owned by TMS, sold in 2015 domestic heating oil to the Iranian embassy in France, which generated gross revenue of nearly &#8364;3,500 (approximately $3,805 ) and net profit of approximately &#8364;700 (approximately $761 ). Caldeo expects to continue this activity in 2016. 

Total Namibia (PTY) Ltd (&#8220;TN&#8221;), a wholly-owned affiliate of Total South Africa (PTY) Ltd (of which the Total Group holds a 50.1% interest), sold petroleum products and services during 2015 to R&#246;ssing Uranium Limited, a company in which the Iranian Foreign Investment Co. holds an interest of 15.3%. In 2015, these activities generated gross revenue of approximately N$115 million (approximately $7.4 million ) and net profit of nearly N$5 million (approximately $0.3 million ). TN expects to continue this activity in 2016. 

Employees 

As of January 3, 2016 , we had approximately 8,309 &#32;full-time employees worldwide, of which 1,283 &#32;were located in the United States, 4,881 &#32;were located in the Philippines, and 2,145 &#32;were located in other countries. Of these employees, 6,071 &#32;were engaged in manufacturing, 793 &#32;in construction projects, 449 &#32;in research and development, 545 &#32;in sales and marketing, and 451 &#32;in general and administrative services. Although in certain countries we have works councils and statutory employee representation obligations, our employees are generally not represented by labor unions on an ongoing basis. We have never experienced a work stoppage, and we believe our relations with our employees are good. 

Geographic Information 

Information regarding financial data by segment and geographic area is available in Note 6 &#32;and Note 18 &#32;under "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8212;Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 

Seasonal Trends 

Our business is subject to industry-specific seasonal fluctuations including changes in weather patterns and economic incentives, among others. Sales have historically reflected these seasonal trends with the largest percentage of total revenues realized during the last two quarters of a fiscal year. The construction of solar power systems or installation of solar power components and related revenue may decline during cold winter months. In the United States, many customers make purchasing decisions towards the end of the year in order to take advantage of tax credits or for other budgetary reasons. In addition, revenues may fluctuate due to the timing of project sales, construction schedules, and revenue recognition of certain projects, such as those involving real estate, which may significantly impact the quarterly profile of the Company's results of operations. The Company may also retain certain development projects on its balance sheet for longer periods of time than in preceding periods in order to optimize the economic value received at the time of sale, which may further impact the period-over-period profile of the Company's results of operations. 

Available Information 

We make available our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") free of charge on our website at www.sunpower.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Copies of such material may be obtained, free of charge, upon written request submitted to our corporate headquarters: SunPower Corporation, Attn: Investor Relations, 77 Rio Robles, San Jose, California, 95134. Copies of materials we file with the SEC may also be accessed at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C., or at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . The public may obtain additional information on the operation of the SEC's Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

&#32;15 

