 Item 1. BUSINESS 

Business Overview 

Daktronics, Inc. (the &#8220;Company&#8221;, &#8220;Daktronics&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;our&#8221;, or &#8220;us&#8221;) is a world-leading supplier of electronic scoreboards, large electronic display systems, digital messaging solutions, software and services for sporting, commercial and transportation applications. We serve our customers by providing the highest quality standard display products as well as custom-designed and integrated systems. We offer a complete line of products, from small scoreboards and electronic displays to large multi-million dollar video display systems as well as related control, timing, and sound systems. We are recognized as a technical leader with the capabilities to design, market, manufacture, install and service complete integrated systems displaying real-time data, graphics, animation and video. 

We were founded in 1968 by Drs. Aelred Kurtenbach and Duane Sander, professors of electrical engineering at South Dakota State University in Brookings, South Dakota. The Company began with the design and manufacture of electronic voting systems for state legislatures. In 1971, Daktronics developed the patented Matside&#174; wrestling scoreboard, the first product in the Company's growing and evolving line. In 1994, Daktronics became a publicly traded company, offering shares under the symbol DAKT on the NASDAQ National Market system. Today, Daktronics has grown from a small company operating out of a garage to a world leader, offering the most complete product lineup in the display industry. 

We have organized our business into five segments: Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, Transportation, and International. These segments are based on the type of customer or geography and are the same as our business units. Financial information concerning these segments is set forth in this Form 10-K in "Part II, Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and " Note 2. Segment Reporting " of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

We make significant investments to complement and develop our existing innovative, high quality products. We employ engineering expertise with electrical, mechanical, and software design capabilities. In addition, we invest in quality and reliability capabilities, process development and testing capabilities, and sourcing processes. 

We strive to grow into new geographic markets by strategically adding resources and emerging markets. Three of our targeted acquisitions were in fiscal 2014, 2015, and 2016; these acquisitions support our long-term growth objectives which are to increase sales and profitability. For more information regarding these acquisitions, see " Note 4. Business Combinations " of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

Our annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to those reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) and are available at http://investor.daktronics.com. We post each of these documents on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after it is electronically filed with the SEC. These reports also may be found on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. Information contained on our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Report or filed with the SEC. 

Industry Background 

Over the years, our products have evolved significantly from scoreboards and matrix displays with related software applications to complex, integrated visual display systems which include full color video with text and graphics displays located on a local or remote network that are tied together through sophisticated control systems. In the mid-1990's, as light emitting diodes (&#8220;LEDs&#8221;) became available in red, blue and green colors with outdoor brightness, we pioneered the development of full color LED video displays capable of replicating trillions of colors, thereby producing large format video systems with excellent color, brightness, energy efficiency and lifetime. Due to our foundation of developing scoring and graphics display systems, we were able to add video capabilities so all of our customers' large format display needs could be met in a complete, integrated system. This has proven to be a key factor in Daktronics becoming a leader in large electronic displays. 

Description of Business 

We are engaged in a full range of activities: marketing and sales, engineering and product development, manufacturing, technical contracting, professional services and customer service and support. Each of those activities is described below: 

Marketing and Sales. Our sales force is comprised of direct sales staff and resellers located throughout the world supporting all customer types in both sales and service. We primarily use a direct sales force for large integrated display systems sales in professional sports, colleges and universities, and commercial spectacular projects. We use our direct sales force to sell third-party advertising and transportation applications. We utilize resellers outside North America for large integrated system sales where we do not have a direct sales presence. The majority of the products sold by resellers in North America are standard catalog products. We support our resellers through direct mail advertising, trade journal advertising, product and installation training, trade show exhibitions and accessibility to our regional sales or service teams. 

Engineering and Product Development. The large format electronic display industry is characterized by ongoing product innovations and developments in technology and complementary services. To remain competitive, we have a tradition of applying engineering resources throughout our business to anticipate and respond rapidly to the system needs in the marketplace. We employ engineers and technicians in the areas of mechanical and electrical design; applications engineering; software design; quality design; and customer and product support. We assign product managers to each product family to assist our sales staff in training and implementing product improvements which ensures each product is designed for maximum reliability and serviceability. We employ process engineers to assist in quality and reliability processing in our product design testing and manufacturing areas. 

Manufacturing. &#32;&#32;A majority of our products are manufactured in the United States, specifically in South Dakota and Minnesota. We also have manufacturing facilities in China, Belgium, and Ireland. For more details on our facilities, see "Item 2. Properties." 

Our manufacturing is somewhat aligned with our business segments and is co-located with product development to accelerate technology improvements and improve our cost structure. We perform component manufacturing, system manufacturing (metal fabrication, electronic assembly, sub-assembly and final assembly) and testing in-house for most of our products to control quality, improve response time and maximize cost-effectiveness. We make our products in focused factories and product cells. We generally align sales, marketing, engineering and manufacturing into a cohesive business unit with a focus on customers. Given the cyclical nature of some parts of our business, we also need to balance and maintain our ability to manufacture the same products across our plants so we can smooth out the customer demand of the various business units. A key strategy of ours is to increase standardization and commonality of parts and manufacturing processes across product lines through product platform strategies. 

Our manufacturing facilities have embraced lean manufacturing techniques throughout all areas. We have also placed significant emphasis on lean techniques in the non-manufacturing areas. Our goal is to eliminate waste and timely deliver products to a customer while maintaining minimal inventory and eliminating non-value added tasks. 

Technical Contracting. We serve as a technical contractor for larger display system installations requiring custom designs and innovative product solutions. The purchase of display systems typically involves competitive proposals. As part of our response to a proposal request, we may suggest additional products or features to assist the prospective customer in analyzing the optimal type of display system. We usually include site preparation and installation services related to the display system in our proposal. In these cases, we serve as a contractor and may retain subcontractors for electrical, steel and installation labor. We have developed relationships with many subcontractors throughout the United States and the world, which is an advantage for us in bidding and delivering on these projects. We are licensed in a number of jurisdictions as a general contractor. 

Professional Services. &#32;&#32;Our professional services are essential to continued market penetration and growth. Professional services include event support, content creation, product maintenance, marketing assistance, training on hardware and software, control room design, and continuing technical support for operators. 

Customer Service and Support. We offer limited warranties on our products, ranging from one to 10 years, against failure due to defective parts or workmanship. In addition, we offer service agreements of various scopes. To serve our customers we provide help-desk access, parts repair and replacement, display monitoring and on-site support. Our technical help desk has experienced technicians who are on-call 24 hours a day to support events and sites. Our field service personnel and third-party service partners are trained to provide on-site support. We use third-party service partners to allow us to respond to changes in volume of service during our seasonal peaks. 

Products and Technologies 

The two principal components of our systems are the display and the controller, which manages the operation of the display. We produce displays varying in complexity, size and resolution. The physical dimensions of a display depend on the size of the viewing area, the distance from the viewer to the display, and the amount and type of information to be displayed. The controller is comprised of computer hardware and software products designed to compile information provided by the operator and other integrated sources to display information, graphics or animation on the displays. We customize our products according to the design specifications of the customer and the conditions of the environment in which our products function. 

Our products are comprised of the following product families, all of which include control systems and software: 

&#8226; Video displays 

&#8226; Scoreboards and timing systems 

&#8226; Message displays 

&#8226; ITS (intelligent transportation systems) dynamic message signs 

&#8226; Space availability displays 

&#8226; Audio systems 

&#8226; Advertising displays 

&#8226; Digit and price displays 

&#8226; Digital messaging systems 

Each of these product families is described below: 

Video Displays. These displays are comprised of a large number of full-color pixels capable of showing various levels of video, graphics and animation plus controllers. These displays include red, green and blue LEDs arranged in various combinations to form pixels. The electronic circuitry which controls the pixels allows for variances in the relative brightness of each LED to provide a full color spectrum, thereby displaying video images in striking, vibrant colors. Variables in video displays include the spacing of the pixels (pixel pitch), the resolution of the displays (number of pixels), the brightness of the displays (nits), the number of discrete colors the display is able to produce (color depth), the viewing angles, and the LED mount technology (surface mount vs. through hole). 

Our LED ribbon board displays are ultra-slim, customizable displays that accommodate curved and 360&#176; installations. These displays are used for end zones, sidelines, encircling a stadium, outfields, concourses, stadium exterior or other linear applications. For new construction projects, our ProRail&#174; attachment system is combined with ribbon board technology to provide improved sight lines for fans. Digital ribbon boards generally serve as a revenue generation source for teams and facilities through advertising, as well as another location to display information such as scoring and statistics. 

Our mobile and modular display systems are transportable and are comprised of lightweight individual LED video panels less than a square meter in size and are assembled together to form a display in a customizable size. These displays are used for touring shows and the events market. 

Our display technology may be integrated with architectural mesh to deliver a dynamic communication medium that provides a semi-transparent viewing experience within a building. These displays can be mounted over a solid facade or in front of windows resulting in a finished solution that is free from visible cabling, and delivers a clean, semi-transparent view. These are less than one inch in depth and provide an elegant, refined structural appearance. 

Our line of Freeform LED displays are architectural lighting and display products. The ProPixel&#174; freeform products use mountable LED elements to transform ordinary structures into stunning visual landmarks. A flexible mounting platform allows designers to transform any structure into a full-motion video display. 

The control components for video displays in live event applications are our Show Control Software Suite, proprietary digital media players and video processors. These control components provide advanced capabilities for the display of live video and real time content on our displays. The Show Control Software Suite can operate entire networks of displays from a single, intuitive control interface. Features allow users to instantly deliver media clips, camera feeds, and streaming information to any display in a network. 

Scoreboards and Timing Systems. Our line of scoreboards and timing products include indoor and outdoor scoreboards for many different sports, digit displays, scoring and timing controllers, statistics software and other related products. Indoor and outdoor systems range in complexity from small scoreboards to larger systems incorporating scoring, timing, video, message centers, advertising panels and control software. 

We offer a variety of controllers complementing our scoreboards and displays. These controllers vary in complexity from the All Sport&#174; 100, a handheld controller for portable scoreboards, to the All Sport&#174; 5000, designed for more sophisticated scoring systems and allowing for more user-defined options. 

We also offer timing systems for sports events, primarily aquatics and track competitions. A component of these systems is our OmniSport&#174; 2000 timing console. The system has the capability to time and rank the competitors and to interface with event management software to facilitate the sporting event. Other timing system components include swimming touchpads, race start systems, and relay take-off platforms. 

As a key component of an integrated system, we market sports statistics and results software under the DakStats&#174; trademark. The software allows the entry and display of sports statistics and other information. It is one of the leading applications of its type in collegiate and high school sports. 

Message Displays. The key product lines in this group are the Galaxy&#174; and GalaxyPro&#174; and are generally controlled with our Venus&#174; 1500 display controller. 

Galaxy&#174; full-matrix displays, available in both indoor and outdoor models, are our leading product line for commercial applications. Galaxy&#174; displays are full color, monochrome, or tri-color, with varying pixel spacing depending on color, size and viewing distance. They are used primarily as message centers to convey information and advertising to consumers. 

&#160; 

GalaxyPro&#174; displays are full-matrix outdoor displays capable of displaying text, graphics and animation, as well as prerecorded video clips. The product was developed to meet the video needs of the commercial market, primarily large retail market applications such as auto dealerships and shopping centers. GalaxyPro&#174; displays have varying pixel spacing and are capable of producing 68 billion colors. 

The Venus&#174; 1500 display control software is used to control the creation of messages and graphic sequences for uploading to the Galaxy&#174; and GalaxyPro&#174; displays. This software is designed to be user friendly and applicable to all general advertising or message applications. We also provide software kits, allowing system integrators to write their own software using the Venus&#174; 1500 to communicate to the displays. 

ITS Dynamic Message Signs (DMS). &#32;&#32;DMS products include a wide range of LED displays for road management, mass transit and aviation applications. The Vanguard&#174; family of dynamic message displays is typically used to direct traffic and inform motorists. These displays are used over freeways, on arterial roads, near bridges, at toll booths and in other locations. We have also developed a control system for these displays to help transportation agencies manage large networks of displays. 

Space Availability Displays. &#32;&#32;This product line is our digit and directional displays, which are primarily marketed and sold for use in parking facilities. They include multi-line displays delivered in vertical cabinets or drop-in digit panels designed to be mounted in existing structures or signs. 

Audio Systems. Our audio systems include both standard and custom options. Standard audio systems are designed to meet the needs of a variety of outdoor sports venues based on the size and configuration of the facility. Custom indoor and outdoor systems are for larger venues and venues with unique seating configurations. Our sound systems are often integrated into an overall venue solution for scoring, timing, message display and/or video capability. 

Out-of-Home Advertising Displays. Our line of out-of-home advertising displays includes billboards and street furniture displays. 

Our line of static and digital billboards offers a unique display solution for the Out-of-Home (&#8220;OOH&#8221;) advertising industry. The products are used to display static images which change at regular intervals. These systems include many features unique to the outdoor advertising market, such as our patented mounting system, self-adjusting brightness, improved energy consumption, and enhanced network security. 

The Visiconn&#174; system is the software application for controlling content and playback loops for digital billboard applications. This system can transform any Internet-ready computer into a secure, global control center for multiple LED displays, flat panel monitors and other display technologies. 

Our line of street furniture engages people with advertising content at eye level as they walk through campuses, cityscapes, and outlet malls. This design enhances the message and complements surrounding architecture. These advertising light boxes are our most flexible solution for static, scrolling and digital OOH campaigns. 

Digit and Price Displays. This product line includes our DataTime&#174; and Fuelight&#8482; displays. The DataTime&#174; product line consists of outdoor time and temperature displays which use a remote sensor for temperature data. Fuelight&#8482; digit displays are specifically designed for the petroleum industry, offering high visibility and quick fuel price updates using the Fuelink&#8482; control software. 

Dynamic Messaging Systems &#8482; : Our dynamic messaging systems include indoor networked solutions for retailers, convenience stores and other businesses. These solutions allows customers to broadcast advertising campaigns and other information through the software, media players and visual hardware. 

&#160; 

Raw Materials 

Materials used in the production of our video display systems are sourced from around the world. We source some of our materials from a limited number of suppliers due to the proprietary nature of the materials. The loss of a key supplier or a defect in the supplied material could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. Our sourcing group works to implement strategies to mitigate these risks. Periodically, we enter into pricing agreements or purchasing contracts under which we agree to purchase a minimum amount of product in exchange for guaranteed price terms over the length of the contract, which generally does not exceed one year. 

Intellectual Property 

We own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis. Our policy is to protect our competitive position by filing U.S. and international patent applications to protect technology and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. This will allow us to pursue infringement claims against competitors for protection due to patent violations. We also rely on nondisclosure agreements with our employees and agents to protect our intellectual property. Despite these intellectual property protections, there can be no assurance a competitor will not copy the functions or features of our products. 

Seasonality 

Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of large project orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market. Large project orders can include a number of displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules according to the customer's needs. Net sales and gross profit percentages also have fluctuated due to other seasonal factors, including the impact of holidays, which primarily affects our third quarter. 

Our gross margins on large custom and large standard orders tend to fluctuate more than on small standard orders. Large product orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins. Although we follow the percentage of completion method of recognizing revenues for large custom orders, we nevertheless have experienced fluctuations in operating results and expect our future results of operations will be subject to similar fluctuations. 

Working Capital 

For information regarding working capital items, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8221; in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. 

Customers 

We have a large and diverse worldwide customer base, ranging from local main street business owners to the owners and operators of premier professional sports arenas. Our customers are important to us, and we strive to serve them over the long-term to earn their future business. The loss of one or more customers could have an adverse effect on us. While we are not economically dependent on any single customer, within our Commercial business unit digital billboard niche, two major customers account for more than 50 percent of sales. See " Note 2. Segment Reporting " of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for our primary markets and customers of each business unit. 

Backlog 

Our backlog consists of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders we expect to fill within the next 24 months. Orders are booked and included in backlog only upon receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits. As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be booked until all required contractual documents and deposits 

are received. In addition, order bookings can vary significantly on a quarterly basis as a result of the timing of large orders. Because order backlog may be subject to extended delivery schedules, orders may be canceled, and orders have varied estimated profitability, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income. Backlog can fluctuate due to large order booking timing and seasonality. Backlog is not a measure defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), and our methodology for determining backlog may vary from the methodology used by other companies in determining their backlog amounts. 

Government and Other Regulation 

In the United States and other countries, various laws, regulations and ordinances restrict the installation of outdoor signs and displays, particularly in the commercial market. These laws and regulations impose greater restrictions on electronic displays versus non-electronic displays due to alleged concerns over aesthetics or driver safety. These factors may prevent or inhibit us from selling products to some prospective customers. 

Our manufacturing facilities and products comply with industry specific requirements, including environmental rules and regulations and safety standards. These requirements include quality, manufacturing process controls, manufacturing documentation, supplier certification of raw materials, and various safety tests. Our products and production processes require the storage, use and disposal of a variety of hazardous chemicals under applicable laws. 

Our global supply chain and sales distribution channels subject us to various trade compliance regulations. These requirements include certification of country of origin, classification within the various tariff codes, and compliance with other specific product or country import/export regulations. 

We believe we are in material compliance with these requirements. 

Competition 

We encounter a wide variety of competitors that vary by product, geographic area, and business unit. Our competitors are both United States and foreign companies and range in size and product offerings. Some of our competitors compete in certain markets by providing lower-cost display systems, which are of a lesser quality with lower product performance or include less customer support. Other competitors use sponsorships as a means to win the business at a location. 

We believe that our ability to compete depends upon product quality and features, technical expertise, service breadth, and cost-effective solutions. 

Research and Development 

We believe our engineering and product development capability and experience are very important factors to continue to develop the most up-to-date digital displays and control system solutions desired by the market. 

Employees 

As of April 30, 2016 , we employed approximately 2,470 &#32;full-time employees and approximately 315 &#32;part-time and temporary employees. Of these employees, approximately 1,000 &#32;were in manufacturing, 560 &#32;were in sales and marketing, 575 &#32;were in customer service, 395 &#32;were in engineering and 255 &#32;were in general and administrative. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe employee relations are good. 

