 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Forward-Looking Statements 

The required information is set forth below, in Item 7, Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, see the section captioned "Forward-Looking Statements," which is incorporated herein by reference. 

General 

Webster Financial Corporation is a bank holding company and financial holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1986 and headquartered in Waterbury, Connecticut. References in this report to "Webster," the "Company," "we," "our," or "us" mean Webster Financial Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. At December 31, 2015 , Webster had assets of $24.7 billion , net loans and leases of $15.5 billion , deposits of $18.0 billion &#32;and shareholders' equity of $2.4 billion . At December 31, 2015 , Webster Financial Corporation's principal asset is all of the outstanding capital stock of Webster Bank, National Association (&#8220;Webster Bank&#8221;). 

At December 31, 2015 , Webster had 2,946 &#32;full-time equivalent employees. None of the employees were represented by a collective bargaining group. Management considers relations with its employees to be good. 

Webster Financial Corporation's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#8220;WBS.&#8221; Webster's internet address is www.websterbank.com &#32;and investor relations internet address is www.wbst.com . Webster makes available free of charge on its website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and amendments, if any, to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). These documents are also available free of charge on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . Information on Webster&#8217;s website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 

Description of Business 

Webster delivers financial services to individuals, families, and businesses primarily from New York to Massachusetts. Webster provides business and consumer banking, mortgage lending, financial planning, trust, and investment services through 163 &#32;banking offices, 316 &#32;ATMs, telephone banking, mobile banking, and its internet website ( www.websterbank.com). &#32;Webster also offers equipment financing, commercial real estate lending, and asset-based lending primarily across the Northeast. On a nationwide basis, through its HSA Bank division, Webster Bank offers and administers health savings accounts, and flexible spending, health reimbursement, and commuter benefit accounts. 

The core of our Company's value proposition is the service delivery model that comes to life through our brand promise, &#8220;Living Up to You,&#8221; which encapsulates how our bankers build meaningful relationships with our customers through a deeper understanding of their lives beyond the bank. This value proposition is delivered by our bankers who are knowledgeable, are deeply committed to the communities that we serve, know their markets well, and make decisions at the local level. We operate with a local market orientation as a community-focused, values-guided regional bank. Operating objectives include acquiring and developing high value customer relationships through sales specialists, universal bankers, marketing, and cross-sale efforts to fuel organic growth and expand contiguously. 

Segments 

Webster has four &#32;reportable segments: Commercial Banking, Community Banking, HSA Bank, and Private Banking, and has been operating under this structure for management reporting purposes since 2015 . A description of each of the Company&#8217;s segments is included in Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,&#8221; and Note 19: Segment Reporting &#32;in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report and also includes financial information for, and a description of, these reportable segments. 

Subsidiaries of Webster Financial Corporation 

Webster Financial Corporation's direct subsidiaries include Webster Bank, Webster Wealth Advisors, Inc., and Webster Licensing, LLC. The Company also owns all of the outstanding common stock of Webster Statutory Trust, an unconsolidated financial vehicle that has issued, and may in the future issue, trust preferred securities. 

Additionally, Webster Bank's direct subsidiaries include Webster Mortgage Investment Corporation ("WMIC"), Webster Business Credit Corporation (&#8220;WBCC&#8221;), and Webster Capital Finance, Inc. (&#8220;WCF&#8221;). Webster Bank is the primary source of community banking activity within the consolidated group. Residential mortgage origination activity is conducted through Webster Bank. WMIC is a passive investment subsidiary whose primary function is to provide servicing on qualified passive investments, such as residential real estate and commercial mortgage real estate loans acquired from Webster Bank. Various commercial lending products are provided through Webster Bank and its subsidiaries to clients primarily within our regional footprint from New York to Massachusetts. WBCC provides asset-based lending services. WCF provides equipment financing for end users of equipment. Webster Bank also has various other subsidiaries that are not significant to the consolidated group. 

Competition 

Webster is subject to strong competition from banks, thrifts, credit unions, consumer finance companies, investment companies, insurance companies, e-commerce and other internet-based companies. Certain of these competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems, and a wider array of commercial banking services than Webster. Competition could intensify in the future as a result of industry consolidation, the increasing availability of products and services from non-bank entities, greater technological developments in the industry, and continued bank regulatory reforms. 

Webster faces substantial competition for deposits and loans throughout its market areas. The primary factors in competing for deposits are interest rates, personalized services, the quality and range of financial services, convenience of office locations, automated services, and office hours. Competition for deposits comes from other commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, mutual funds, and other investment alternatives. The primary factors in competing for consumer and commercial loans are interest rates, loan origination fees, the quality and range of lending services, personalized service and ability to close within customers desired timeframe. Competition for origination of mortgage loans comes primarily from savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, mortgage brokers, other commercial banks, and insurance companies. Other factors which affect competition include the general and local economic conditions, current interest rate levels, and volatility in the mortgage markets. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Webster and its banking and non-banking subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation under federal and state laws. The regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks is intended to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, and the U.S. banking system as a whole. This system is not designed to protect equity investors in bank holding companies. 

Set forth below is a summary of the significant laws and regulations applicable to Webster and its banking and non-banking subsidiaries. The description that follows is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, and policies that are described. Such statutes, regulations, and policies are subject to ongoing review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. A change in any of the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Webster and its banking and non-banking subsidiaries could have a material effect on the results of the Company. 

Overview 

Webster Financial Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from Webster Bank and its other subsidiaries. As a registered bank holding company and a financial holding company it is subject to inspection, examination, and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("FRB"). and is regulated under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (&#8220;BHC Act&#8221;). Webster also is under the jurisdiction of the SEC and is subject to the disclosure and other regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as administered by the SEC. Webster is subject to the rules for listed companies of the New York Stock Exchange. 

Webster Bank is organized as a national banking association under the National Bank Act. Webster Bank is subject to the supervision of, and to regular examination by, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;) as its primary supervisory agency, as well as by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;) as its deposit insurer. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") supervises Webster for compliance with federal consumer financial protection laws. Webster also is subject to oversight by state attorneys general for compliance with state consumer protection laws. Webster Bank's deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable deposit insurance limits in accordance with FDIC laws and regulations. Webster's non-bank subsidiaries are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, including regulations of the FRB. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act") significantly changed the financial regulatory regime in the United States. Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. banks and financial services firms have been subject to enhanced regulation and oversight. Several provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rulemaking, guidance, and interpretation by the federal banking agencies. 

Bank Holding Company Regulation 

Webster Financial Corporation is a bank holding company as defined under the BHC Act. The BHC Act generally limits the business of bank holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks, and other activities that the FRB has determined to be so closely related to banking "as to be a proper incident thereto." Bank holding companies that have elected to become financial holding companies may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the FRB in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (ii) complementary to a financial activity, and that does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the FRB). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting, and making merchant banking investments. 

If a bank holding company seeks to engage in the broader range of activities permitted under the BHC Act for financial holding companies, (i) the holding company and all of its depository institution subsidiaries, must be &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; and &#8220;well managed,&#8221; as defined in FRB Regulation Y, and (ii) it must file a declaration with the FRB that it elects to be a &#8220;financial holding company.&#8221; 

In order for a financial holding company to commence any activity that is financial in nature, incidental thereto, or complementary to a financial activity, or to acquire a company engaged in any such activity permitted by the BHC Act, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have received a rating of at least &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; in its most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 ("CRA"). This is discussed in the &#8220;Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Laws&#8221; section. 

The BHC Act generally limits acquisitions by bank holding companies that are not qualified as financial holding companies to commercial banks and companies engaged in activities that the FRB has determined to be so closely related to banking &#8220;as to be a proper incident thereto.&#8221; Financial holding companies also are permitted to acquire control of non-depository institution companies engaged in activities that are financial in nature and in activities that are incidental and complementary to financial activities without prior FRB approval. However, the BHC Act, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, requires prior written approval from the FRB or prior written notice to the FRB before a financial holding company may acquire control of a company with consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. 

The BHC Act, the Bank Merger Act, and other federal and state statutes regulate acquisitions of commercial banks. The BHC Act requires the prior FRB approval for the direct or indirect acquisition of 5% or more of the voting shares of a commercial bank or its parent holding company. Under the Bank Merger Act, the prior approval of the OCC is required for a national bank to merge with another bank or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of another bank. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, the federal banking agencies will consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the combined banking organization, the applicant's performance record under the CRA, and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. For further information relating to the CRA, see the section titled &#8220;Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Laws.&#8221; 

Enhanced Prudential Standards 

Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act imposes enhanced prudential standards on larger banking organizations, with certain of these standards applicable to banking organizations over $10 billion, including Webster and Webster Bank. In October 2012, the FDIC, the OCC, and the FRB issued separate but similar rules requiring covered banks and bank holding companies with $10 billion to $50 billion in total consolidated assets to conduct an annual company-run stress test. The annual company-run stress test was conducted for Webster and Webster Bank. Webster announced the release of its company-run 2015 capital stress test results as required by the Dodd-Frank Act on June 16, 2015. 

In February 2014, the FRB issued a rule further implementing the enhanced prudential standards required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Although most of the standards only apply to bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets, as directed by the Dodd-Frank Act, the rule contains certain standards that apply to bank holding companies with more than $10 billion in assets, including a requirement to establish a risk committee of the Company's board of directors to manage enterprise-wide risk. Webster meets these requirements. 

Debit Card Interchange Fees 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires that any interchange transaction fee charged for a debit transaction be &#8220;reasonable&#8221; and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer for the transaction, with new regulations that establish such fee standards, eliminate exclusivity arrangements between issuers and networks for debit card transactions, and limit restrictions on merchant discounting for use of certain payment forms and minimum or maximum amount thresholds as a condition for acceptance of credit cards. In June 2011, the FRB approved a final debit card interchange rule pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that would cap an issuer's base fee at 21 cents per transaction and allow an additional amount equal to 5 basis points of the transaction's value. The FRB separately issued a final rule in July 2012 that also allows a fraud-prevention adjustment of 1 cent per transaction conditioned upon an issuer developing, implementing, and updating reasonably designed fraud-prevention policies and procedures. 

Identity Theft 

In April 2013, the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (together, the &#8220;Commissions&#8221;) jointly issued final rules and guidelines implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act which require certain regulated entities to establish programs to address risks of identity theft. First, the rules require financial institutions and creditors to develop and implement a written identity theft prevention program that is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with certain existing accounts or the opening of new accounts. The rules include guidelines to assist entities in the formulation and maintenance of programs that would satisfy the requirements of the rules. Second, the rules establish special requirements for any credit and debit card issuers that are subject to the Commissions&#8217; jurisdiction, to assess the validity of notifications of changes of address under certain circumstances. Webster implemented an ID Theft Prevention Program, approved by its Board of Directors on April 25, 2013, to address these requirements. 

Volcker Rule 

Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly known as the Volcker Rule, restricts the ability of banking entities, such as Webster, from: (i) engaging in &#8220;proprietary trading;&#8221; and (ii) investing in or sponsoring certain types of funds (&#8220;Covered Funds&#8221;), subject to certain limited exceptions. The implementing regulation defines Covered Funds to include certain investments such as collateralized loan obligation (&#8220;CLO&#8221;) and collateralized debt obligation securities. The regulation also provides an exemption for CLOs meeting certain requirements. CLO compliance with the Volcker Rule is generally required by July 21, 2017. 

Derivatives Reform 

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act imposes requirements related to over-the-counter derivatives. Key provisions of Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act are implemented by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (&#8220;CFTC&#8221;) with respect to previously unregulated derivatives, including interest rate swaps. Among other things, the CFTC&#8217;s rules apply to swap dealers, major swap participants and commercial entities that enter into OTC derivatives transactions to hedge or mitigate risk. Under rules and CFTC guidance, end users are subject to a wide range of requirements including capital, margining, clearing, documentation, reporting, eligibility and business conduct requirements. 

Dividends 

The principal source of Webster Financial Corporation's liquidity is dividends from Webster Bank. The prior approval of the OCC is required if the total of all dividends declared by a national bank in any calendar year would exceed the sum of the bank's net income for that year and its undistributed net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to surplus. Federal law also prohibits national banks from paying dividends that would be greater than the bank's undivided profits after deducting statutory bad debt in excess of the bank's allowance for loan and lease losses. At December 31, 2015 , there was $335.4 million &#32;of undistributed net income available for the payment of dividends by Webster Bank to Webster Financial Corporation. Webster Bank paid Webster Financial Corporation $110.0 million &#32;in dividends during the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

In addition, Webster Financial Corporation and Webster Bank are subject to other regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums. The appropriate federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine, under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank holding company or a bank, that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. The appropriate banking agency authorities have indicated that paying dividends that deplete a bank's capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice and that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. 

Federal Reserve System 

FRB regulations require depository institutions to maintain reserves against their transaction accounts, primarily interest-bearing and regular checking accounts. Webster Bank's required reserves can be in the form of vault cash and, if vault cash does not fully satisfy the required reserves, in the form of a balance maintained with the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. FRB regulations required for 2015 that reserves be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts except for transaction accounts which are exempt up to $14.5 million. Transaction accounts greater than $14.5 million up to and including $103.6 million have a reserve requirement of 3%. A 10% reserve ratio will be assessed on transaction accounts in excess of $103.6 million. The FRB generally makes annual adjustments to the tiered reserves. Webster Bank is in compliance with these reserve requirements. 

As a national bank and member of the Federal Reserve System, Webster Bank is required to hold capital stock of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. The required shares may be adjusted up or down based on changes to Webster Bank's common stock and paid-in surplus. Webster Bank was in compliance with these requirements, with a total investment in Federal Reserve Bank of Boston stock of $50.7 &#32; million at December 31, 2015. The FRB paid an annual dividend of 6% in 2015. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System 

The Federal Home Loan Bank System provides a central credit facility for member institutions. Webster Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (&#8220;FHLB&#8221;). The Bank is required to purchase and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB in an amount equal to 0.35% &#32;of the aggregate principal amount of its unpaid residential mortgage loans and similar obligations at the beginning of each year, up to a maximum of $25.0 million . The Bank is also required to hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB in amounts that vary from 3.0% &#32;to 4.5% &#32;of its advances, depending on the maturities of those advances. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank had approximately $2.7 billion &#32;in FHLB advances. Webster Bank was in compliance with these requirements, with a total investment in FHLB stock of $137.6 million &#32;at December 31, 2015 . On October 29, 2015 , the FHLB declared a quarterly cash dividend equal to an annual yield of 3.32% . 

Source of Strength Doctrine 

FRB policy requires bank holding companies to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. Section 616 of the Dodd-Frank Act codified the requirement that bank holding companies act as a source of financial strength. As a result, Webster Financial Corporation is expected to commit resources to support Webster Bank, including at times when Webster Financial Corporation may not be in a financial position to provide such resources. Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. The U.S. bankruptcy code provides that, in the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. 

In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of Webster Bank is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon Webster Financial Corporation. If the assessment is not paid within three months, the OCC could order a sale of the Webster Bank stock held by Webster Financial Corporation to cover any deficiency. 

Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action 

In July 2013, the FRB, the OCC, and the FDIC approved final rules (the &#8220;Capital Rules&#8221;) establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. The Capital Rules generally implement the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision&#8217;s (the &#8220;Basel Committee&#8221;) December 2010 final capital framework referred to as &#8220;Basel III&#8221; for strengthening international capital standards. The Capital Rules revise the definitions and the components of regulatory capital, as well as address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions&#8217; regulatory capital ratios. The Capital Rules also address asset risk weights and other matters affecting the denominator in banking institutions&#8217; regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing general risk-weighting approach with a more risk-sensitive approach. 

The Capital Rules: (i) introduce a new capital measure called &#8220;Common Equity Tier 1&#8221; (&#8220;CET1&#8221;) and related regulatory capital ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets; (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and &#8220;Additional Tier 1 capital&#8221; instruments meeting certain revised requirements; (iii) mandate that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital; and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions from and adjustments to capital as compared to existing regulations. Under the Capital Rules, for most banking organizations, including Webster, the most common form of Additional Tier 1 capital is non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, and the most common forms of Tier 2 capital are subordinated notes and a portion of the allocation for loan and lease losses, in each case, subject to the Capital Rules&#8217; specific requirements. 

Pursuant to the Capital Rules, the minimum capital ratios effective January 1, 2015 are as follows: 

&#8226; 

4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; 

6.0% Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; 

8.0% Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and 

&#8226; 

4.0% Tier 1 capital to adjusted quarterly average consolidated assets, as defined (called &#8220;leverage ratio&#8221;). 

The Rules also introduce a new &#8220;capital conservation buffer,&#8221; composed entirely of CET1, in addition to these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity, and other capital instrument repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. Thus, when fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the capital standards applicable to Webster will include an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1, effectively resulting in minimum ratios inclusive of the capital conservation buffer of: (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%; (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%; and (iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%. 

The Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that could not be realized through net operating loss carrybacks, and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1. The deductions and adjustments are being incrementally phased in between January 1, 2015 and January 1, 2018. 

In addition, under the current general risk-based capital rules, the effects of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss items included in shareholders&#8217; equity (for example, mark-to-market of securities held in the available-for-sale portfolio) under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles are reversed for the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios. Pursuant to the Capital Rules, the effects of certain of these items are not excluded; however, non-advanced approaches banking organizations, including the Company, may make a one-time permanent election to continue to exclude these items. The Company made the one-time permanent election to continue to exclude these items concurrently with the first filing of certain of Webster&#8217;s periodic regulatory reports in 2015. This election will not affect Webster's ability to meet all capital adequacy requirements to which it is subject. 

The Capital Rules also preclude certain hybrid securities, such as trust preferred securities, from inclusion in bank holding companies&#8217; Tier 1 capital, subject to phase-out in the case of bank holding companies, such as Webster Financial Corporation, that had $15 billion or more in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had $75 million of trust preferred securities included in the Tier 1 capital for regulatory reporting purposes pursuant to the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital adequacy guidelines. The Capital Rules require the Company to phase out trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital. Excluding trust preferred securities from the Tier 1 capital will not affect Webster&#8217;s ability to meet all capital adequacy requirements to which it is subject. 

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 began on January 1, 2015 and are being phased in over a 4-year period (beginning at 40% on January 1, 2015 and an additional 20% per year thereafter). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and increase by 0.625% on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019. 

With respect to Webster Bank, the Capital Rules revise the &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; (&#8220;PCA&#8221;) regulations adopted pursuant to Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (&#8220;FDIA&#8221;), by: (i) introducing a CET1 ratio requirement at each PCA category (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required CET1 ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status being 8% (as compared to the Basel I 6%); and (iii) eliminating the provision that provides that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3% leverage ratio and still be adequately capitalized. The Capital Rules do not change the total risk-based capital requirement for any PCA category. 

The Capital Rules prescribe a new standardized approach for risk weightings that expand the risk-weighting categories from the four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset classes. 

Management believes Webster is in compliance, and will continue to be in compliance, with the targeted capital ratios as such requirements are phased in. 

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders 

Under federal law, transactions between depository institutions and their affiliates are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (&#8220;FRA&#8221;) and its implementing Regulation W. In a bank holding company context, at a minimum, the parent holding company of a bank, and any companies which are controlled by such parent holding company, are affiliates of the bank. Generally, sections 23A and 23B of the FRA are intended to protect insured depository institutions from losses arising from transactions with non-insured affiliates by limiting the extent to which a bank or its subsidiaries may engage in covered transactions with any one affiliate and with all affiliates of the bank in the aggregate, and requiring that such transactions be on terms consistent with safe and sound banking practices. 

Further, Section 22(h) of the FRA and its implementing Regulation O restricts loans to directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders (&#8220;insiders&#8221;). Under Section 22(h), loans to insiders and their related interests may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such persons and affiliated entities, the institution's total capital and surplus. Loans to insiders above specified amounts must receive the prior approval of the board of directors. Further, under Section 22(h) of the FRA, loans to directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders must be made on terms substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons, except that such insiders may receive preferential loans made under a benefit or compensation program that is widely available to the bank's employees and does not give preference to the insider over the employees. Section 22(g) of the FRA places additional limitations on loans to executive officers. 

Consumer Protection and CFPB Supervision 

The Dodd-Frank Act centralizes responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating the CFPB, an independent agency charged with responsibility for implementing, enforcing, and examining compliance with federal consumer financial laws. The Company is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Procedures Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Practices Act, various state law counterparts, and the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, which is part of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act does not prevent states from adopting stricter consumer protection standards. State regulation of financial products and potential enforcement actions could also adversely affect the Company&#8217;s business, financial condition or operations. 

On January 10, 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule implementing the ability-to-repay and qualified mortgage ("QM") provisions of the Truth in Lending Act, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act (the &#8220;QM Rule&#8221;). The ability-to-repay provision requires creditors to make reasonable, good faith determinations that borrowers are able to repay their mortgages before extending the credit based on a number of factors and consideration of financial information about the borrower from reasonably reliable third-party documents. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and the QM Rule, loans meeting the definition of &#8220;qualified mortgage&#8221; are entitled to a presumption that the lender satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. The presumption is a conclusive presumption/safe harbor for prime loans meeting the QM requirements and a rebuttable presumption for higher-priced/subprime loans meeting the QM requirements. The definition of a &#8220;qualified mortgage&#8221; incorporates the statutory requirements, such as not allowing negative amortization or terms longer than 30 years. The QM Rule also adds an explicit maximum 43% debt-to-income ratio for borrowers if the loan is to meet the QM definition, though some mortgages that meet GSE, FHA, and VA underwriting guidelines may, for a period not to exceed seven years, meet the QM definition without being subject to the 43% debt-to-income limits. The QM Rule became effective on January 10, 2014. The CFPB is expected to continue to issue and amend rules implementing the consumer financial protection laws, which may impact Webster Bank's operations. 

Financial Privacy 

Federal law and certain state laws currently contain client privacy protection provisions. These provisions limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to affiliated companies and non-affiliated third parties. These rules require disclosure of privacy policies to clients and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to affiliates or non-affiliated third parties by means of &#8220;opt out&#8221; or &#8220;opt in&#8221; authorizations. Pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (&#8220;GLBA&#8221;) and certain state laws, companies are required to notify clients of security breaches resulting in unauthorized access to their personal information. In connection with the regulations governing the privacy of consumer financial information, the federal banking agencies have also adopted guidelines for establishing information security standards and programs to protect such information. 

Depositor Preference 

The FDIA provides that, in the event of the &#8220;liquidation or other resolution&#8221; of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution, including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors, and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver, will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including the parent bank holding company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Federal Deposit Insurance 

The FDIC uses a risk-based assessment system that imposes insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account a bank's capital level and supervisory rating. The risk matrix utilizes different risk categories distinguished by capital levels. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the base for insurance assessments is now consolidated average assets less average tangible equity. Assessment rates are calculated using formulas that take into account the risk of the institution being assessed. 

Webster Bank's FDIC deposit insurance assessment expense totaled $24.0 million , $22.7 million , and $21.1 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, &#32; 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. FDIC deposit insurance expense includes deposit insurance assessments and Financing Corporation (&#8220;FICO&#8221;) assessments related to outstanding FICO bonds. FICO is a mixed-ownership government corporation established by the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 whose sole purpose was to function as a financing vehicle for the now defunct Federal Savings &#38; Loan Insurance Corporation. 

The Dodd-Frank Act increased the FDIC&#8217;s deposit insurance limits to $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank, for each account ownership category. The Dodd-Frank Act also changed the deposit insurance assessment base and increased the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) to ensure the future strength of the DIF. Substantially all of the deposits of Webster Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the FDIC to raise the minimum reserve ratio of the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% by September 30, 2020. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act made banks with $10 billion or more in total assets responsible for this increase. In November 2015 the FDIC proposed regulations that would impose a surcharge of 4.5 cents per $100 on the assessment base, after making certain adjustments on depository institutions with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion. The proposed regulations have not yet been finalized. Under a separate rule adopted by the FDIC in 2011, regular assessment rates for all banks will decline when the DIF ratio reaches 1.15%, which the FDIC expects will occur in early 2016. If the regulations regarding the surcharge are adopted in the form initially proposed, the FDIC deposit insurance assessment premiums paid by Webster Bank, will increase, but the increase will be offset by the reduction in the regular assessment rate when the DIF reaches 1.15%. The FDIC also has authority to further increase deposit insurance assessments. 

Under the FDIA, the FDIC may terminate deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. Webster's management is not aware of any practice, condition, or violation that might lead to the termination of its deposit insurance. 

Incentive Compensation 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies and the SEC to establish joint regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities, including Webster and Webster Bank, with at least $1 billion in total consolidated assets that encourage inappropriate risks by providing an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder with excessive compensation, fees, or benefits that could lead to material financial loss to the entity. The federal banking agencies and the SEC proposed such regulations in 2011, but the regulations have not yet been finalized. If the regulations are adopted in the form initially proposed, they will restrict the manner in which executive compensation is structured. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation at their first annual meeting taking place six months after the date of enactment and at least every three years thereafter and on so-called &#8220;golden parachute&#8221; payments in connection with approvals of mergers and acquisitions. At its 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, Webster's shareholders voted on a non-binding, advisory basis to hold a non-binding, advisory vote on the compensation of named executive officers of Webster annually. As a result of the vote, the Board of Directors determined to hold the vote annually. 

Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Laws 

Webster Bank has a responsibility under the CRA, as implemented by OCC regulations to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution's discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. In connection with its examination, the OCC assesses Webster Bank's record of compliance with the CRA. In addition, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act prohibit discrimination in lending practices on the basis of characteristics specified in those statutes. Webster Bank's failure to comply with the provisions of the CRA could, at a minimum, result in regulatory restrictions on its activities and the activities of Webster. Webster Bank's failure to comply with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act could result in enforcement actions against it by the OCC, as well as other federal regulatory agencies, including the CFPB and the Department of Justice. Webster Bank's latest OCC CRA rating was &#8220;satisfactory.&#8221; 

USA PATRIOT Act &#32; 

Under Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act, all financial institutions are required to take certain measures to identify their customers, prevent money laundering, monitor customer transactions, and report suspicious activity to U.S. law enforcement agencies. Financial institutions also are required to respond to requests for information from federal banking regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies. Information sharing among financial institutions for the above purposes is encouraged by an exemption granted to complying financial institutions from the privacy provisions of the GLBA and other privacy laws. Financial institutions that hold correspondent accounts for foreign banks or provide private banking services to foreign individuals are required to take measures to avoid dealing with certain foreign individuals or entities, including foreign banks with profiles that raise money laundering concerns, and are prohibited from dealing with foreign &#8220;shell banks&#8221; and persons from jurisdictions of particular concern. The primary federal banking regulators and the Secretary of the Treasury have adopted regulations to implement several of these provisions. All financial institutions also are required to establish internal anti-money laundering programs. The effectiveness of a financial institution in combating money laundering activities is a factor to be considered in any application submitted by the financial institution under the Bank Merger Act. Webster has in place a Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act compliance program and engages in very few transactions of any kind with foreign financial institutions or foreign persons. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The United States government has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals, and others. These are typically known as the &#8220;OFAC&#8221; rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;). The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on &#8220;U.S. persons&#8221; engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off, or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Future Legislative Initiatives 

From time to time, various legislative and regulatory initiatives are introduced by Congress, state legislatures, and financial regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and/or depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. The Company cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted, and, if enacted, the effect that it or any implementing regulations would have on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. A change in statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to Webster or any of its subsidiaries could have a material effect on the business of the Company. 

Risk Management Framework 

Webster&#8217;s Enterprise Risk Management (&#8220;ERM") framework provides a structured approach for identifying, assessing and managing risks across the Company in a coordinated manner, including strategic and reputational risks, as well as, credit, market, liquidity, capital, and operational risks as discussed in detail below. 

The ERM framework enables the aggregation of risk across the enterprise and ensures the Company has the tools, programs and processes in place to support informed decision making, anticipate risks before they materialize and maintain Webster's risk profile consistent with its risk strategy and appetite. 

Key components of the ERM framework include a culture that promotes proactive risk management by all Webster bankers, a risk appetite framework, which is embedded in the corporate strategy and risk culture of the bank and consists of a risk appetite statement and board and business-level scorecards with defined risk tolerance limits, and robust risk governance with effective and credible challenge including three lines of defense to manage and oversee risk. Bankers in each line of business serve as the first line of defense and have responsibility for identifying, managing and owning the risks in their businesses. Risk and other corporate support functions (for example, Human Resources and Legal departments) serve as the second line of defense and are responsible for providing guidance, oversight and appropriate challenge to the first line of defense. Internal Audit and Credit Risk Review, both of which are independent of management, serve as the third line of defense and ensure that appropriate risk management controls, processes and systems are in place and functioning effectively. 

The Risk Committee of the Board of Directors (&#8220;Risk Committee&#8221;), comprised of independent directors, oversees all Webster's risk-related matters and provides input and guidance to the Board of Directors and the Executive team, as appropriate. Webster's ERM Committee (&#8220;ERMC&#8221;), which reports directly to the Risk Committee, is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer ("CRO") and is comprised of members of Webster's Executive Management Committee and Senior Risk Officers. 

The CRO is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Company's ERM framework and overseeing credit risk, operational risk, compliance risk, Bank Secrecy Act and loan workout/recovery programs. The Corporate Treasurer, who reports to the Chief Financial Officer ("CFO"), is responsible for overseeing market, liquidity, and capital risk management activities. 

Credit Risk 

Webster manages and controls credit risk in its loan and investment portfolios through established underwriting practices, adherence to standards, and utilization of various portfolio and transaction monitoring tools and processes. Credit policies and underwriting guidelines provide limits on exposure and establish various other standards as deemed necessary and prudent. Additional approval requirements and reporting are implemented to ensure proper risk identification, decision rationale, risk ratings, and disclosure of policy exceptions. 

Credit Risk Management ("CRM") policies and transaction approvals are managed under the supervision of the Chief Credit Officer (&#8220;CCO&#8221;) who reports to the CRO. The CCO and team of credit executives are independent of the loan production and Treasury areas. The credit risk function oversees the underwriting, approval and portfolio management process, establishes and ensures adherence to credit policies, and manages the collections and problem asset resolution activities. 

As part of CRM governance, Webster established a CRM Committee ("CRMC") that meets regularly to review key credit risk topics, issues, and policies. The CRMC reviews Webster's credit risk scorecard, which covers key risk indicators and limits established as part of the Company's risk appetite framework. The CRMC is chaired by the CCO and includes senior managers responsible for lending as well as senior managers from the CRM function. Important findings regarding credit quality and trends within the loan and investment portfolios are regularly reported by the CCO to the ERMC and Risk Committee. 

In addition to the CRM team, there is an independent Credit Risk Review function that assesses risk ratings and credit underwriting process for all areas of the organization that incur credit risk. The head of Credit Risk Review reports directly to the Risk Committee and administratively to the CRO. Credit Risk Review findings are reported to the CRMC, ERMC and Risk Committee. Corrective measures are monitored and tested to ensure risk issues are mitigated or resolved. 

Market Risk 

Market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates and prices, such as equity prices. The risk of loss is assessed from the perspective of adverse changes in fair values, cash flows, and future earnings. Due to the nature of its operations, Webster is primarily exposed to interest rate risk. Webster's interest rate sensitivity is monitored on an ongoing basis by its Asset and Liability Committee (&#8220;ALCO&#8221;). ALCO's primary goal is to manage interest rate risk to maximize earnings and net economic value in changing interest rate and business environments within risk appetite limits approved by the Board of Directors. ALCO is chaired by Webster's Corporate Treasurer and members include the CEO, CFO and CRO. ALCO activities and findings are regularly reported to the ERMC, Risk Committee and Board of Directors. 

Liquidity Risk 

Liquidity risk refers to the ability to meet a demand for funds by converting assets into cash or cash equivalents and by increasing liabilities at acceptable costs. Liquidity management of Webster Bank involves maintaining the ability to meet day-to-day and longer-term cash flow requirements of customers, whether they are depositors wishing to withdraw funds or borrowers requiring funds to meet their credit needs. Sources of funds include deposits, borrowings, or sales of assets such as unencumbered investment securities. 

Webster requires funds for dividends to shareholders, payment of debt obligations, repurchase of shares, potential acquisitions, and for general corporate purposes. Its sources of funds include dividends from Webster Bank, income from investment securities, the issuance of equity, and debt in the capital markets. 

Both Webster and Webster Bank maintain a level of liquidity necessary to achieve their business objectives under both normal and stressed conditions. Liquidity risk is monitored and managed by ALCO and reviewed regularly with the ERMC, Risk Committee and Board of Directors. 

Capital Risk 

Webster aims to maintain adequate capital in both normal and stressed environments to support its business objectives and risk appetite. ALCO monitors regulatory and tangible capital levels according to regulatory requirements and management operating ranges and recommends capital conservation, generation, and/or deployment strategies. ALCO also has responsibility for the annual capital plan, capital ratio range setting, contingency planning and stress testing, which are all reviewed and approved by the Risk Committee and Board of Directors at least annually. 

Operational Risk 

Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events, such as fraud, cyber-attacks, or natural disasters. The Operational Risk function is responsible for establishing processes and tools to identify, manage, and aggregate operational risk across the organization; providing guidance and advice on operational risk matters; and educating the organization on operational risks. Specific programs and functions have been implemented to manage the risks associated with legal and regulatory requirements, suppliers and other third-parties, information security, business disruption, fraud, analytical and forecasting models, and new products and services. 

Webster's Operational Risk Management Committee ("ORMC"), which consists of senior risk officers and senior managers responsible for operational risk management to periodically review the aforementioned programs, key operational risk trends, concerns, and mitigation best practices. The ORMC is chaired by the Director of Operating Risk Management, who is responsible for overseeing Webster's operational risk management framework. 

Internal Audit 

Internal Audit provides an independent and objective assessment of the design and execution of internal controls for all major business units and operations throughout Webster, including our management systems, risk governance, and policies and procedures. Internal Audit activities are designed to provide reasonable assurance that resources are safeguarded so that significant financial, managerial and operating information is complete, accurate and reliable, and that employee actions comply with our policies and applicable laws and regulations. 

Results of Internal Audit reviews are reported to management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Corrective measures are monitored to ensure risk issues are mitigated or resolved. The General Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee and administratively to the Chief Executive Officer. The appointment or replacement of the General Auditor is overseen by the Audit Committee. 

Additional information on risks and uncertainties and additional factors that could affect the Company's results of operations can be found in Item 1A and elsewhere within this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 and in other reports filed by Webster Financial Corporation with the SEC. 

