 Item 1 

Business 

Unless the context requires otherwise, references to the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;Penn Virginia,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Penn Virginia Corporation and its subsidiaries. 

Description of Business 

Penn Virginia Corporation is an independent oil and gas company engaged in the onshore exploration, development and production of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. Our current operations consist primarily of operating our producing wells in the Eagle Ford Shale field, or Eagle Ford, in South Texas. We also have less significant operations in Oklahoma, primarily in the Granite Wash. We were incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1882. Our common stock is publicly traded on the OTC Pink under the symbol &#8220;PVAH&#8221; subsequent to our delisting from the NYSE on January 12, 2016. Our common stock was previously traded on the NYSE under the symbol &#8220;PVA.&#8221; Our headquarters and corporate office is located in Radnor, Pennsylvania, and our operations are conducted primarily from our office in Houston, Texas. We also have an operations office near our Eagle Ford assets in South Texas. 

We operate in and report our financial results and disclosures as one segment, which is exploration, development and production of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. Each of our operating regions has similar economic characteristics and meets the criteria for aggregation as one reporting segment. 

We own a highly contiguous position of approximately 100,000 net acres in the core liquids-rich area or &#8220;volatile oil window&#8221; of the Eagle Ford, which we believe contains a substantial number of drilling locations and a more than 15-year drilling inventory. In 2015, we spent over $300 million, or substantially all, of our capital expenditures on our Eagle Ford operations and those operations accounted for 7.0 MMBOE, or 88 percent, of our 7.9 MMBOE total production. 

We produce predominantly crude oil and NGLs. In 2015, our total production was comprised of 80 percent crude oil and NGLs and 20 percent natural gas. Crude oil and NGLs accounted for 90 percent of our product revenues. We generally sell our crude oil, NGL and natural gas products using short-term floating price physical and spot market contracts. 

As of December 31, 2015, our proved reserves were approximately 44 MMBOE, of which 75 percent were proved developed reserves and 84 percent were oil and NGLs. We drilled and completed 61 gross (38.6 net) wells, all in Eagle Ford, in 2015. As of December 31, 2015, we had 432 gross (254.7 net) productive wells, approximately 86 percent of which we operate, and owned approximately 166,000 gross (120,000 net) acres of leasehold and royalty interests, approximately 54 percent of which were undeveloped. For a more detailed discussion of our production, reserves, drilling activities, wells and acreage, see Item 2, &#8220;Properties.&#8221; 

Since 2010, we have divested essentially all of our natural gas-focused assets located in East Texas, Mississippi, Appalachia and the Arkoma Basin. In 2014, we sold our natural gas gathering and gas lift infrastructure assets in South Texas as well as the rights to construct an oil gathering system in South Texas. We received aggregate proceeds of approximately $535 million from these transactions. These proceeds were invested primarily in our Eagle Ford operations. 

Industry Operating Environment and Outlook 

Crude oil prices remained significantly depressed in 2015 and face continued pressure due to domestic and global supply and demand factors. The downward price pressure intensified in late 2015 and early 2016, with crude oil prices dropping below $27 per barrel in February 2016. Natural gas prices faced similar downward pressure in 2015, dropping below $1.70 per MMBtu in December 2015. 

In response to these price declines, and given the uncertainty regarding the timing and magnitude of any price recovery, we have suspended our drilling activities. While we intend to resume drilling in 2016, there can be no assurance that we will have adequate capital to do so. 

We have also taken other actions set forth below in response to low commodity prices: 

&#8226; 

completed an amendment to our Revolver; 

&#8226; 

reduced our drilling and completion costs through (i) contract renegotiations, (ii) improved techniques and (iii) capitalizing on lower industry pricing for related products and services; 

&#8226; 

sold all of our assets in East Texas for net proceeds of approximately $73 million in August 2015 and sold certain non-core Eagle Ford properties for net proceeds of approximately $13 million in October 2015; 

&#8226; 

suspended payment of dividends on our convertible preferred stock; 

&#8226; 

reduced our employee headcount by approximately 40 percent from year-end 2014 levels through administrative and operations restructuring initiatives taken in May and October 2015 and February 2016; and 

&#8226; 

engaged Kirkland &#38; Ellis LLP, or K&#38;E, and Jefferies LLC, or Jefferies, to advise us with respect to various financing and debt restructuring options. 

For additional financial and other information, see Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in Item 8, &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.&#8221; 

Key Contractual Arrangements 

In the ordinary course of operating our business, we enter into a number of key contracts for services that are critical with respect to our ability to develop, produce and bring our production to market. The following is a summary of our most significant contractual arrangements. 

Oil gathering and transportation service contracts . We have entered into agreements to provide us gathering, intermediate pipeline transportation and supplemental trucking services for a substantial portion of our Eagle Ford crude oil and condensate production. The gathering agreement has a 25-year term and the intermediate transportation agreement has a 10-year term, which is expected to commence in the first half of 2016. 

Natural gas service contracts . We have entered into an agreement that provides gas lift, gathering, compression and transportation services for a substantial portion of our natural gas production in the South Texas region until 2039. We have also entered into contracts that provide firm transportation capacity rights for specified volumes of natural gas on various other pipeline systems for terms ranging from one to 15 years. These contracts require us to pay transportation demand charges regardless of the amount of pipeline capacity we use. We attempt to sell excess capacity to third parties at our discretion. 

Drilling and Completion. Historically, we have had agreements with several vendors to provide oil and gas well drilling and well completion services. Generally, these agreements have been on a month-to-month basis, but from time to time we have entered into agreements for longer terms, some of which may include early termination provisions that require us to pay penalties if we terminate the agreements prior to the end of their original terms. Given the current industry environment and our recent decision to temporarily suspend our drilling operations, we currently have only one drilling contract with respect to which we have given early termination notice. That contract will expire on March 20, 2016, and we could be obligated to pay up to approximately $1.2 million in early termination charges. 

Major Customers 

We sell a significant portion of our oil and gas production to a relatively small number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , approximately 64 percent of our consolidated product revenues were attributable to three customers: Phillips 66 Company; Sunoco Refining and Marketing, Inc.; and BP Products North America Inc. 

Seasonality 

Our sales volumes of oil and gas are dependent upon the number of producing wells and, therefore, are not seasonal by nature. We do not believe that the pricing of our oil and NGL production is subject to any meaningful seasonal effects. Historically, the pricing of natural gas is seasonal, typically with higher pricing in the winter months. 

Competition 

The oil and gas industry is very competitive, and we compete with a substantial number of other companies, many of which are large, well-established and have greater financial and operational resources than we do. Some of our competitors not only engage in the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves, but also carry on refining operations, electricity generation and the marketing of refined products. In addition, the oil and gas industry in general competes with other industries supplying energy and fuel to industrial, commercial and individual consumers. In the past, competition has been particularly intense in the acquisition of prospective oil and gas properties. Many of our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to commodity price volatility and overall industry cycles. 

Government Regulation and Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws that govern oil and gas operations, regulate the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment. Numerous governmental departments issue rules and regulations to implement and enforce such laws that are often difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial administrative, civil and even criminal penalties as well as the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting our activities for failure to comply. Some laws, rules and regulations relating to protection of the environment may, in certain circumstances, impose &#8220;strict liability&#8221; for environmental contamination, rendering a person liable for environmental and natural resource damages and cleanup costs without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. Other laws, rules and regulations may restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise exist or even prohibit exploration or production activities in sensitive areas. In addition, state laws often require some form of remedial action to prevent pollution from former operations, such as plugging of abandoned wells. As of December 31, 2015 , we have recorded asset retirement obligations of $2.6 million &#32;attributable to these activities. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its cost of doing business and consequently affects its profitability. These laws, rules and regulations affect our operations, as well as the oil and gas exploration and production industry in general. 

In addition, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, has designated energy extraction as one of six national enforcement initiatives, and has indicated that the agency will direct resources towards addressing incidences of noncompliance from natural gas extraction and production activities. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Nevertheless, changes in existing environmental laws or regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations, including any significant limitation on the use of hydraulic fracturing, could have the potential to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

The following is a summary of the significant environmental laws to which our business operations are subject. 

CERCLA . The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA, is also known as the &#8220;Superfund&#8221; law. CERCLA and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on parties that are considered to have contributed to the release of a &#8220;hazardous substance&#8221; into the environment. Such &#8220;responsible parties&#8221; may be subject to joint and several liability under CERCLA for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources. It is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. We currently own or lease properties that have been used for the exploration and production of oil and gas for a number of years. Many of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes was not under our control. These properties, and any wastes that may have been released on them, may be subject to CERCLA, and we could potentially be required to investigate and remediate such properties, including soil or groundwater contamination by prior owners or operators, or to perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. 

RCRA . The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and clean up of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA. While there is currently an exclusion from RCRA for drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration and production of oil or gas, it is possible that some of these wastes could be classified as hazardous waste in the future, and therefore be subject to RCRA. 

Oil Pollution Act . The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or the OPA, contains numerous restrictions relating to the prevention of and response to oil spills into waters of the United States. The term &#8220;waters of the United States&#8221; has been interpreted broadly to include inland water bodies, including wetlands and intermittent streams. The OPA subjects owners of facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and clean up costs, and certain other damages arising from a spill. 

Clean Water Act . The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, or the Clean Water Act, governs the discharge of certain pollutants into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters or wetlands without a permit issued by the EPA, the Army Corps of Engineers, or the Corps, or the state is prohibited. The Clean Water Act has been interpreted by these agencies to apply broadly. The EPA and the Corps released a rule to revise the definition of &#8220;waters of the United States&#8221; (&#8220;WOTUS&#8221;) for all Clean Water Act programs, which went into effect in August 2015. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit has stayed the WOTUS rule nationwide pending further action of the court. In response to this decision, the EPA and the Corps resumed nationwide use of the agencies&#8217; prior regulations defining the term &#8220;waters of the United States.&#8221; Those regulations will be implemented as they were prior to the effective date of the new WOTUS rule. The WOTUS rule could significantly expand federal control of land and water resources across the U.S., triggering substantial additional permitting and regulatory requirements. 

The Clean Water Act also requires the preparation and implementation of Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure Plans in connection with on-site storage of significant quantities of oil. The EPA has proposed new wastewater pretreatment standards that would prohibit onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities from sending wastewater to publicly-owned treatment works. This restriction of disposal options for hydraulic fracturing waste may result in increased costs 

Safe Drinking Water Act . The Safe Drinking Water Act, or the SDWA, and the Underground Injection Control Program promulgated under the SDWA, establish the requirements for salt water disposal well activities and prohibit the migration of fluid containing contaminants into underground sources of drinking water. We engage third parties to provide hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services to us in connection with the wells in which we act as operator. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and gas wells, particularly in unconventional plays like the Eagle Ford and Granite Wash formations. The Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, which has been repeatedly introduced by members of Congress during the past few years, would subject hydraulic fracturing operations to federal regulation under the SDWA and require the disclosure of chemicals used by us and others in the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Sponsors of these bills have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. Proposed legislation would require, among other things, the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings against producers and service providers. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting of hydraulic fracturing operations at the federal level, which could lead to operational delays, increased operating and compliance costs and additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult or commercially impracticable for us to perform hydraulic fracturing. Such costs and burdens could delay the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations, which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. Additionally, the EPA has commenced a comprehensive research study to investigate the potential adverse impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and ground water. The EPA released a draft report in June 2015, which stated that EPA had not found evidence of widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water resources from hydraulic fracturing operations. This report has not yet been finalized, and the EPA&#8217;s ultimate conclusions may be impacted by recent comments from the EPA&#8217;s Science Advisory Board regarding the sufficiency of the data underlying some of the EPA&#8217;s conclusions. 

Chemical Disclosures Related to Hydraulic Fracturing. &#32;Certain states in which we operate have adopted regulations requiring the disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. For instance, Oklahoma and Texas have implemented chemical disclosure requirements for hydraulic fracturing operations. In May 2014, the EPA issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking relating to the collection of information on various chemicals and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. In July 2015 the EPA&#8217;s Office of the Inspector General issued a report instructing the EPA to establish and publish an action plan with milestone dates outlining the steps necessary for determining whether to propose a rule by the end of January 2016. The EPA has indicated that it intends to publish a proposed rule in December 2016. We currently disclose all hydraulic fracturing additives we use on www.FracFocus.org, a website created by the Ground Water Protection Council and Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission. 

Additionally, in 2015, several environmental groups filed suit in the District of Columbia federal district court against the EPA seeking a response to plaintiffs&#8217; October 2012 petition to the EPA to bring the oil and gas industry within the scope of the Toxic Release Inventory, or TRI, reporting requirements under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, or the EPCRA. The TRI provisions of the EPCRA require covered facilities to report, on an annual basis, releases into the environment of specifically-listed chemicals. As a result, the EPA issued a response letter agreeing to create TRI requirements for natural gas processing plants, but declining to create TRI requirements for the other request areas, which included crude petroleum and natural gas, natural gas liquids, drilling oil and gas wells, oil and gas field exploration services, and oil and gas field services. 

Prohibitions and Other Regulatory Limitations on Hydraulic Fracturing. There have been a variety of regulatory initiatives at the state level to restrict oil and gas drilling operations in certain locations. In November 2014, voters in the City of Denton, Texas, approved a local ordinance banning fracking. In May 2015, this local ordinance was preempted by state legislation. 

In addition to chemical disclosure rules, some states have implemented permitting, well construction or water withdrawal regulations that may increase the costs of hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Texas and Pennsylvania have water withdrawal restrictions allowing suspension of withdrawal rights in times of shortages while other states require reporting on the amount of water used and its source. 

Increased regulation of and attention given by environmental interest groups, as well as state and federal regulatory authorities, to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and gas, including from the developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. These developments could also lead to litigation challenging proposed or operating wells. The adoption of federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing that are more stringent could cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells, as well as increased compliance costs and time, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We use hydraulic fracturing extensively and any increased federal, state, or local regulation of hydraulic fracturing could reduce the volumes of oil and gas that we can economically recover. 

Clean Air Act . Our operations are subject to the Clean Air Act, or the CAA, and comparable state and local requirements. In 1990, the U.S. Congress adopted amendments to the CAA containing provisions that have resulted in the gradual imposition of certain pollution control requirements with respect to air emissions from our operations. The EPA and states have developed, and continue to develop, regulations to implement these requirements. We may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next several years for air pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits and approvals addressing other air emission-related issues. Further, stricter requirements could negatively impact our production and operations. For example, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality and the Railroad Commission of Texas have been evaluating possible additional regulation of air emissions in response to concerns about allegedly high concentrations of benzene in the air near drilling sites and natural gas processing facilities. These initiatives could lead to more stringent air permitting, increased regulation and possible enforcement actions at the local, state and federal levels. 

In 2012 the EPA issued new rules subjecting certain oil and gas operations to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards, or NSPS, and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, or NESHAPS, programs. These rules restrict volatile organic compound emissions from three subcategories of fractured and refractured gas wells for which well completion operations are conducted. These regulations also establish specific requirements regarding emissions from production related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, pneumatic controllers, and storage vessels. In September 2015, the EPA proposed expanding the 2012 NSPS to create additional methane standards for new compressor stations, natural gas processing plants, and well sites. The proposed NSPS would limit natural gas emissions during well completions, impose new leak detection, and ongoing survey, repair, and recordkeeping requirements. 

The EPA has also released new draft control guidance for reducing volatile organic compound emissions from existing oil and gas sources in certain ozone non-attainment areas. The EPA acknowledged that some of its recommendations mirror the requirements found in the proposed NSPS for new sources and that, if adopted by states, these recommendations would apply to both new and existing sources of volatile organic compounds in ozone non-attainment areas. If the rules are adopted as proposed and the guidance remains unchanged, they would impose new compliance costs on our operations. 

In addition, in November 2015, the EPA also revised the existing National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ground level ozone to make the standard more stringent. Certain areas of the country previously in compliance with the various National Ambient Air Quality Standards, including areas where we operate, may be reclassified as non-attainment areas. The EPA has not yet designated which areas of the country are out of attainment with the new ground level ozone standard, and it will take the states several years to develop compliance plans for their non-attainment areas. If the areas where we operate are reclassified as non-attainment areas, such reclassifications may make it more difficult to construct new or modified sources of air pollution in those areas. A number of states have also filed or joined suits to challenge the EPA&#8217;s new standard in court. While we are not able to determine the extent to which this new standard will impact our business at this time, it does have the potential to have a material impact on our operations and cost structure. 

Collectively, these rules and proposed rules, as well as any future laws and their implementing regulations, may require a number of modifications to our operations. We may, for example, be required to install new equipment to control emissions from our well sites or compressors at initial startup or by the applicable compliance deadline. We may also be required to obtain pre-approval for the expansion or modification of existing facilities or the construction of new facilities. Compliance with such rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. We are currently researching the effect these new rules will have on our business, but generally expect them to add to the cost and expense of our operations. 

There have been recent claims asserted that individual wells and other facilities should be &#8220;aggregated&#8221; together and their collective emissions considered in determining whether major source permitting requirements apply under the CAA. Based on several recent court decisions striking down agency determinations and guidance, the EPA may only make these decisions based on physical proximity and is precluded from considering functional relationships between the facilities. In September 2015, the EPA proposed a rule with two options for defining a &#8220;source.&#8221; The EPA&#8217;s &#8220;preferred&#8221; option would codify the current approach whereby only sources that &#8220;are contiguous or are located within a short distance of one another&#8221;-a quarter mile-would be considered &#8220;adjacent&#8221; and thus a &#8220;single source.&#8221; The EPA&#8217;s second proposed option would allow sources located more than a quarter mile away if it they are &#8220;functionally interrelated&#8221; to the source, for example through a physical connection, such as a pipeline between equipment. If the EPA adopts the &#8220;functionally interrelated&#8221; test, it would introduce uncertainty into the permitting process and could require more lengthy and costly permitting processes and more expensive emission controls. 

Greenhouse Gas Emissions . Both in the United States and worldwide, there is increasing attention being paid to the issue of climate change and the contributing effect of greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions. On June 28, 2010, the EPA issued the &#8220;Final Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases&#8221; Rule, or the Reporting Rule, requiring all stationary sources that emit more than 25,000 tons of GHGs per year to collect and report to the EPA data regarding such emissions. The Reporting Rule establishes a new comprehensive scheme, which began in 2011, requiring operators of stationary sources emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent GHGs to inventory and report their GHG emissions occurring in the 

prior calendar year on a facility-by-facility basis. On November 9, 2010, the EPA issued final rules applying these regulations to the oil and gas source category, including oil and gas production, natural gas processing, transmission, distribution and storage facilities (Subpart W). In October 2015, the EPA released a final rule adding reporting of GHG emissions from gathering and boosting systems, completions and workovers of oil wells using hydraulic fracturing, and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines. In January 2016, the EPA proposed additional changes to the reporting requirements under the program. These rules do not require control of GHGs. However, the EPA has indicated that it will use data collected through the reporting rules to decide whether to promulgate future GHG limits. 

In addition, in 2009, the EPA issued a final rule known as the EPA&#8217;s Endangerment Finding, which found that current and projected concentrations of six key GHGs in the atmosphere threaten public health and the environment, as well as the welfare of current and future generations. Legal challenges to these findings have been asserted, and the U.S. Congress is considering legislation to delay or repeal the EPA&#8217;s actions, but we cannot predict the outcome of this litigation or these efforts. The EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. These rules were subject to judicial challenge, but on June 26, 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit rejected challenges to the tailoring rule and other EPA rules relating to the regulation of GHGs under the CAA. 

Starting July 1, 2011, the EPA required facilities that must already obtain New Source Review permits for other pollutants to include GHGs in their permits for new construction projects that emit at least 100,000 tons per year of GHGs and existing facilities that increase their emissions by at least 75,000 tons per year. On March 27, 2012, the EPA issued its proposed NSPS for carbon dioxide emissions standard from new and modified power plants and held public hearings on the rule in May 2012 and accepted written comments until June 25, 2012. In its June 2013 Climate Action Plan, the Obama Administration announced its intent to issue regulations under Section 111(b) and Section 111(d) of the CAA to set NSPS for both new and existing power plants by June 2015. The Climate Action Plan also directs federal agencies to develop a strategy for the reduction of methane emissions, including emissions from the oil and natural gas industry. 

In August 2015, the EPA issued its final Clean Power Plan rules establishing carbon pollution standards for power plants. The EPA expects each state to develop implementation plans for power plants in its state to meet the individual state targets established in the Clean Power Plan, and has also proposed a federal compliance plan to implement the Clean Power Plan in the event that approvable state plans are not submitted. Judicial challenges have been be filed, which seek a stay of the implementation of the rules. Electricity generated by natural gas often results in lower CO 2 &#32;emission rates than other forms of fossil fuels. Depending on the method of implementation selected by the states, and if implementation is not stayed pending resolution of the legal challenges, the Clean Power Plan could increase the demand for natural gas-generated electricity. &#32; 

The U.S. Supreme Court, in a decision issued on June 23, 2014, addressed whether the EPA&#8217;s regulation of GHG emissions from new motor vehicles properly triggered GHG permitting requirements for stationary sources under the Clean Air Act. Through its Prevention of Significant Deterioration (&#8220;PSD&#8221;) and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule, the EPA sought to require large industrial facilities, including coal-fired power plants, to obtain permits to emit, and to use best available control technology to curb, GHG emissions. The decision reversed, in part, and affirmed, in part, a 2012 D.C. Circuit decision that upheld the EPA&#8217;s GHG-related regulations. Specifically, the court held that the EPA exceeded its statutory authority when it interpreted the Clean Air Act to require Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V permitting for stationary sources based on their potential GHG emissions. However, the Court also held that the EPA&#8217;s determination that a source already subject to the PSD program due to its emission of conventional pollutants may be required to limit its GHG emissions by employing the &#8220;best available control technology&#8221; was permissible. 

In addition to regulatory programs aimed at reducing CO 2 &#32;emissions, the EPA has also proposed regulating the emission of methane, which is also considered to be a GHG, from the oil and gas sector through the NSPS program. As a result of this continued regulatory focus, future federal GHG regulations of the oil and gas industry remain a possibility. Also, many states and regions have adopted GHG initiatives and certain governmental bodies have or are considering the imposition of fees or taxes based on the emission of GHGs by certain facilities. While it is not possible to predict how any regulations to restrict GHG emissions may come into force, these and other legislative and regulatory proposals for restricting GHG emissions or otherwise addressing climate change could require us to incur additional operating costs or curtail oil and gas operations in certain areas and could also adversely affect demand for the oil and gas we sell. 

Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth&#8217;s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations. 

OSHA . We are subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA, and comparable state laws that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires maintenance of information about hazardous materials used or produced in operations, and the provision of such information to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. Other OSHA standards regulate specific worker safety aspects of our operations. 

Endangered Species Act . The Endangered Species Act restricts activities that may affect endangered species or their habitats. While some of our facilities are in areas that may be designated as a habitat for endangered species, we believe that we are in substantial compliance with the Endangered Species Act. Moreover, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service continues its six-year effort to make listing decisions and critical habitat designations where necessary for over 250 species before the end of the agency&#8217;s 2017 fiscal year, as required under a 2011 settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, and many hundreds of additional anticipated listing decisions have already been identified beyond those recognized in the 2011 settlement. The presence of any protected species or the final designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we operate could result in increased costs from species protection measures or could result in limitations, delays, or prohibitions on our exploration and production activities that could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and produce our reserves. 

Employees and Labor Relations 

We had a total of 112 employees as of December 31, 2015 . We consider our current employee relations to be favorable. We and our employees are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements. 

Available Information 

Our internet address is http://www.pennvirginia.com . We make available free of charge on or through our website our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Executive and Financial Officer Code of Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation and Benefits Committee Charter and Nominating and Governance Committee Charter, and we will provide copies of such documents to any shareholder who so requests. We also make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

