 Item 1. BUSINESS. Overview 

We are one of the fastest growing construction materials companies in the United States, with an 82% increase in revenue between the year ended December 31, 2011 and the year ended January 2, 2016, as compared to an average increase of approximately 38% in revenue reported by our competitors over the same period. Our materials include aggregates, which we supply across the country, with a focus on Texas, Kansas, Utah, Missouri and Kentucky, and cement, which we supply primarily in Missouri, Iowa and along the Mississippi River. Within our markets, we offer customers a single-source provider for construction materials and related downstream products through our vertical integration. In addition to supplying aggregates to customers, we use our materials internally to produce ready-mixed concrete and asphalt paving mix, which may be sold externally or used in our paving and related services businesses. Our vertical integration creates opportunities to increase aggregates volumes, optimize margin at each stage of production and provide customers with efficiency gains, convenience and reliability, which we believe gives us a competitive advantage. 

Since our first acquisition more than six years ago, we have rapidly become a major participant in the U.S. construction materials industry. We believe that, by volume, we are a top 10 aggregates supplier, a top 15 cement producer and a major producer of ready-mixed concrete and asphalt paving mix. Our revenue in 2015 was $1.4 billion with net income of $1.5 million. Our proven and probable aggregates reserves were 2.1 billion tons as of January 2, 2016. In the year ended January 2, 2016 we sold 32.3 million tons of aggregates, 1.7 million tons of cement, 3.4 million cubic yards of ready-mixed concrete and 4.4 million tons of asphalt paving mix across our more than 200 sites and plants. 

Our rapid growth achieved over the last six years has been due in large part to our acquisitions, which we funded with equity and debt financing. During this period, we witnessed a cyclical decline followed by a slow recovery in the private construction market and nominal growth in public infrastructure spending. However, the private construction market is beginning to rebound, which we believe signals the outset of a strong growth period in our industry and end markets. We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on this anticipated recovery to grow our business and reduce our leverage over time. As of January 2, 2016, our total indebtedness was approximately $1,296.8 million. 

The private construction market includes residential and nonresidential new construction and the repair and remodel market. According to the Portland Cement Association (&#147;PCA&#148;), the number of total housing starts in the United States, a leading indicator for our residential business, is expected to grow 38% from 2015 to 2019. In addition, the PCA projects that spending in private nonresidential construction will grow 12% over the same period. The private construction market represented 59% of our revenue in 2015. 

Public infrastructure, which includes spending by federal, state and local governments for roads, highways, bridges, airports and other public infrastructure projects, has been a relatively stable portion of government budgets providing consistent demand to our industry and is projected by the PCA to grow approximately 12% from 2014 to 2017. With the nation&#146;s infrastructure aging, we expect U.S. infrastructure spending to grow over the long term, and we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on any such increase. Despite this projected growth, we do not believe it will be consistent across the United States, but will instead be concentrated in certain regions. The public infrastructure market represented 41% of our revenue in 2015. 

In addition to the anticipated growth in our end markets, we expect higher volume and pricing in our core product categories. The PCA estimates that cement consumption will increase approximately 15% from 2014 to 2017, reflecting rising demand in the major end markets. At the same time, we believe that cement pricing will be driven higher by tightening production capacity in the United States, where the PCA projects consumption will exceed domestic cement capacity by 2017 driven by both increasing demand and by capacity constraints 

&#160;

arising from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency&#146;s (&#147;EPA&#148;) National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (&#147;NESHAP&#148;) regulation for Portland Cement Plants (&#147;PC-MACT&#148;), with which compliance was required in September 2015, notwithstanding certain extensions granted to individual cement plants to September 2016. 

Historically, we have sought to supplement organic growth potential with acquisitions, by strategically targeting attractive, new markets or expanding in existing markets. We consider population trends, employment rates, competitive landscape, private construction outlook, public funding and various other factors prior to entering a new market. In addition to analyzing macroeconomic data, we seek to establish, and believe that we have, a top three position in our local markets, which we believe supports sustainable organic growth and attractive returns. This positioning provides local economies of scale and synergies, which benefit our pricing, costs and profitability. 

Our acquisition strategy, to date, has helped us to achieve scale and rapid growth, and we believe that significant opportunities remain for growth through acquisitions. We estimate that approximately 65% of the U.S. construction materials market is privately owned. From this group, our senior management team maintains contact with over 300 private companies. These long-standing relationships, cultivated over decades, have been the primary source for our past acquisitions and, we believe, will be a key driver of our future growth. We believe the value proposition we offer to potential sellers has made us a buyer of choice and has enabled us to largely avoid competitive auctions and instead negotiate directly with sellers at attractive valuations. 

Our Business Segments 

In the fourth quarter of 2015, we reorganized the operations and management reporting structure of our cement business and East segment operations, resulting in a change to our reportable business segments. We now conduct our cement business separate from our regional segments. As a result, the cement business is a reportable business segment. In addition, we have combined the material-based businesses centered in Kansas and Missouri with the Kentucky-based operations, creating an expanded East segment and eliminating what was the Central region. These changes did not affect the West region. 

Information concerning our total revenue, profit, assets employed and certain additional information attributable to each reportable business segment for each year in the three-year period ended January 2, 2016, as included in &#147;Note 21: Segment Information&#148; of the &#147;Notes to Financial Statements&#148; of our 2015 consolidated financial statements, which are included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K and throughout this report have been recast to reflect the current segment structure. 

We operate in 21 U.S. states and in British Columbia, Canada and currently have assets in 19 U.S. states and in British Columbia, Canada through our three operating segments: West; East; and Cement. In addition to the cement business, we have platform businesses in the west and east segments that have their own management team that, in turn, reports to a segment president who is responsible for overseeing the operating businesses, developing growth opportunities, implementing best practices and integrating acquired businesses. Acquisitions are an important element of our strategy, as we seek to enhance value through increased scale and cost savings within local markets. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; West Segment: Our West segment includes operations in Texas, the Mountain states of Utah, Colorado, Idaho and Wyoming and in British Columbia, Canada. We supply aggregates, ready-mixed concrete, asphalt paving mix and paving and related services in the West segment. As of January 2, 2016, the West segment controlled approximately 0.7 billion tons of proven and probable aggregates reserves and $415.6 million of net property, plant and equipment and inventories (&#147;hard assets&#148;). During the year ended January 2, 2016, approximately 56% of our revenue and approximately 47% of our Adjusted EBITDA, excluding corporate charges, were generated in the West segment. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; East Segment: Our East segment serves markets extending across the Midwestern and Eastern United States, most notably in Kansas, Missouri, Kentucky, South Carolina, Nebraska and Iowa where we supply aggregates, ready-mixed concrete, asphalt paving mix and paving and related services. As of January 2, 2016, the East segment controlled approximately 0.9 billion tons of proven and probable aggregates reserves and $370.5 million of hard assets. During the year ended January 2, 2016, approximately 30% of our revenue and approximately 29% of our Adjusted EBITDA, excluding corporate charges, were generated in the East segment. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cement Segment: Our Cement segment consists of our Hannibal, Missouri and Davenport, Iowa cement plants and eight distribution terminals along the Mississippi River from Minnesota to Louisiana. The Hannibal, Missouri plant was commissioned in 2008 and is a highly efficient, technologically advanced, integrated manufacturing and distribution system strategically located 100 miles north of St. Louis along the Mississippi River. We utilize an on-site solid and liquid waste fuel processing facility, which can reduce the plant&#146;s fuel costs by up to 50% and is one of only 12 facilities in the United States with such capabilities. In July 2015, we acquired the cement plant in Davenport, Iowa and seven distribution terminals along the Mississippi River. The Davenport cement plant primarily serves markets in Missouri, Iowa and along the Mississippi River. Our production capacity approximately doubled with the acquisition of the Davenport Assets. As of January 2, 2016, the Cement segment controlled approximately 0.5 billion tons of proven and probable aggregates reserves, which serve its cement business, and $602.7 million of hard assets. During the year ended January 2, 2016, approximately 14% of our revenue and approximately 24% of our Adjusted EBITDA, excluding corporate charges, were generated in the Cement segment. Acquisition History 

The following table lists acquisitions we have completed since August 2009: 

&#160;

Company 

&#160; Date of Acquisition 

&#160; Segment 

Hamm, Inc. &#160; August 25, 2009 &#160; East Hinkle Contracting Company, LLC &#160; February 1, 2010 &#160; East Cornejo &#160; April 16, 2010 &#160; East Elmo Greer &#38; Sons, LLC &#160; April 20, 2010 &#160; East Continental Cement &#160; May 27, 2010 &#160; Cement Harshman Construction L.L.C. and Harshman Farms, Inc. &#160; June 15, 2010 &#160; East South Central Kentucky Limestone, LLC &#160; July 23, 2010 &#160; East Harper Contracting &#160; August 2, 2010 &#160; West Kilgore Pavement Maintenance, LLC and Kilgore Properties, LLC &#160; August 2, 2010 &#160; West Con-Agg of MO, L.L.C. &#160; September 15, 2010 &#160; East Altaview Concrete &#160; September 15, 2010 &#160; West EnerCrest Products, Inc. &#160; September 28, 2010 &#160; West RK Hall &#160; November 30, 2010 &#160; West Triple C Concrete, Inc. &#160; January 14, 2011 &#160; West Elam Construction, Inc. &#160; March 31, 2011 &#160; West Bourbon Limestone Company &#160; May 27, 2011 &#160; East Fischer Quarries, L.L.C. &#160; May 27, 2011 &#160; East B&#38;B &#160; June 8, 2011 &#160; West Grand Junction Concrete Pipe, Inc. &#160; June 10, 2011 &#160; West Industrial Asphalt &#160; August 2, 2011 &#160; West Ramming Paving &#160; October 28, 2011 &#160; West Norris Quarries, LLC &#160; February 29, 2012 &#160; East Kay &#38; Kay Contracting, LLC &#160; October 5, 2012 &#160; East Sandco Inc. &#160; November 30, 2012 &#160; West &#160;

Lafarge-Wichita &#160; April 1, 2013 &#160; East Westroc &#160; April 1, 2013 &#160; West Alleyton &#160; January 17, 2014 &#160; West Troy Vines &#160; March 31, 2014 &#160; West Buckhorn Materials &#160; June 9, 2014 &#160; East Canyon Redi-Mix &#160; July 29, 2014 &#160; West Mainland &#160; September 4, 2014 &#160; West Southwest Ready Mix &#160; September 19, 2014 &#160; West Colorado County S&#38;G &#160; September 30, 2014 &#160; West Concrete Supply &#160; October 3, 2014 &#160; East Lewis &#38; Lewis &#160; June 1, 2015 &#160; West Davenport Assets &#160; July 17, 2015 &#160; Cement LeGrand &#160; August 21, 2015 &#160; West Pelican &#160; December 11, 2015 &#160; West American Materials Company &#160; February 5, 2016 &#160; East Our End Markets 

Residential Construction . Residential construction includes single family houses and multi-family units such as apartments and condominiums. Demand for residential construction is influenced by employment prospects, new household formation and mortgage interest rates. In recent years, foreclosures have resulted in an oversupply of available houses, which had dampened the demand for new residential construction in many markets in the United States. However, employment prospects have improved, foreclosure rates have stabilized and demand has begun to grow, although the rate of growth is inconsistent across the United States. 

Nonresidential Construction. Nonresidential construction encompasses all privately financed construction other than residential structures. Demand for nonresidential construction is driven by population and economic growth. Population growth spurs demand for stores, shopping centers and restaurants. Economic growth creates demand for projects such as hotels, office buildings, warehouses and factories. The supply of nonresidential construction projects is affected by interest rates and the availability of credit to finance these projects. 

Public Infrastructure Construction. Public infrastructure construction includes spending by federal, state and local governments for highways, bridges, airports, schools, public buildings and other public infrastructure projects. Public infrastructure spending has historically been more stable than private sector construction. We believe that public infrastructure spending is less sensitive to interest rate changes and economic cycles and often is supported by multi-year federal and state legislation and programs. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from public infrastructure projects. As a result, the supply of federal and state funding for public infrastructure highway construction significantly affects our public infrastructure end-use business. 

In the past, public infrastructure sector funding was underpinned by a series of six-year federal highway authorization bills. Federal funds are allocated to the states, which are required to match a portion of the federal funds they receive. Federal highway spending uses funds predominantly from the Federal Highway Trust Fund, which derives its revenue from taxes on diesel fuel, gasoline and other user fees. The dependability of federal funding allows the state departments of transportation to plan for their long term highway construction and maintenance needs. The Fixing America&#146;s Surface Transportation Act (&#147;FAST Act&#148;) was signed into law on December 4, 2015 and authorizes $305 billion of funding between 2016 and 2020. It extends five years and provides funding for surface transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, transit systems, and the rail transportation network. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

Leading market positions . We believe each of our operating companies has a top three market share position in its local market area achieved through their respective, extensive operating histories, averaging over 35 years. We believe we are a top 10 supplier of aggregates, a top 15 producer of cement and a major producer of 

&#160;

ready-mixed concrete and asphalt paving mix in the United States by volume. We focus on acquiring companies that have leading local market positions in aggregates, which we seek to enhance by building scale with other local aggregates and downstream products and services. The construction materials industry is highly local in nature due to transportation costs from the high weight-to-value ratio of the products. Given this dynamic, we believe achieving local market scale provides a competitive advantage that drives growth and profitability for our business. We believe that our ability to prudently acquire, improve and rapidly integrate multiple businesses has enabled, and will continue to enable, us to become market leaders. 

Operations positioned to benefit from attractive industry fundamentals . We believe the construction materials industry has attractive fundamentals, characterized by high barriers to entry and a stable competitive environment in the majority of markets. Barriers to entry are created by scarcity of raw material resources, limited efficient distribution range, asset intensity of equipment, land required for quarry operations and a time-consuming and complex regulatory and permitting process. According to the April 2014 U.S. Geological Survey, aggregates pricing in the United States had increased in 65 of the previous 70 years, with growth accelerating since 2002 as continuing resource scarcity in the industry has led companies to focus increasingly on improved pricing strategies. 

One significant factor that allows for pricing growth in periods of volume declines is that aggregates and asphalt paving mix have significant exposure to public road construction, which has demonstrated growth over the past 30 years, even during times of broader economic weakness. The majority of public road construction spending is funded at the state level through the states&#146; respective departments of transportation. The five key states in which we operate (Texas, Kansas, Utah, Missouri and Kentucky) have funds with certain constitutional protections for revenue sources dedicated for transportation projects. These dedicated, earmarked funding sources limit the negative effect current state deficits may have on public spending. As a result, we believe our business&#146; profitability is significantly more stable than most other building product subsectors. 

Vertically-integrated business model . We generate revenue across a spectrum of related products and services. We internally supply approximately 26% of the aggregates used in the ready-mixed concrete and asphalt paving mixes that we produce and the asphalt paving mix that our paving crews lay. Our vertically-integrated business model enables us to operate as a single source provider of materials and paving and related services, creating cost, convenience and reliability advantages for our customers, while at the same time creating significant cross-marketing opportunities among our interrelated businesses. We believe this creates opportunities to increase aggregates volumes, optimize margin at each stage of production, foster more stable demand for aggregates through a captive demand outlet, create a competitive advantage through the efficiency gains, convenience and reliability provided to customers and enhance our acquisition strategy by allowing a greater range of target companies. 

Attractive diversity, scale and product portfolio . We operate across 21 U.S. states and British Columbia, Canada in 33 metropolitan statistical areas. Between the year ended December 31, 2011 and the year ended January 2, 2016, we grew our revenue by 82% and brought substantial additional scale and geographic diversity to our operations. A combination of increased scale and vertical integration enabled us to improve profitability with Adjusted EBITDA margins increasing 651 basis points from the year ended December 28, 2013, to the year ended January 2, 2016. In the year ended January 2, 2016, 29% of gross margin was derived from aggregates, 19% from the Cement segment, 37% from products and the remaining 15% from services. We have approximately 2.1 billion tons of proven and probable aggregates reserves serving our aggregates and cement business. We estimate that the useful life of our proven and probable reserves serving our aggregates and cement businesses are approximately 70 years and 170 years, respectively, based on the average production rates in 2015 and 2014. 

Our dry process cement plant in Hannibal, Missouri was commissioned in 2008 and our Davenport, Iowa plant was commissioned in 1981. These large capacity cement plants have technologically advanced manufacturing capabilities. According to PCA forecasts, consumption of cement in the United States is expected 

&#160;

to exceed production capacity by the year 2017, creating opportunities for existing cement plants. Our plants are strategically located on the Mississippi River and, consequently, in 2015, approximately 58% and 26% of cement sold from the Hannibal and Davenport plants, respectively, was shipped by barge, which is generally more cost-effective than truck transport. 

Proven ability to incorporate new acquisitions and grow businesses . Since July 2009, we have acquired 38 companies, successfully integrating the businesses into three segments through the implementation of operational improvements, industry-proven information technology systems, a comprehensive safety program and best in class management programs. A typical acquisition generally involves retaining the local management team of the acquired business, maintaining operational decisions at the local level and providing strategic insights and leadership directed by Tom Hill, our President and Chief Executive Officer, a 30-year industry veteran. These acquisitions have helped us achieve significant revenue growth, from $0.4 billion in 2010 to $1.4 billion in 2015. 

Experienced and proven leadership driving organic growth and acquisition strategy. Our management team, led by Mr. Hill, has a proven track record of creating value. In addition to Mr. Hill, our management team, including corporate and segment operations managers, corporate development, finance executives and other heavy side industry operators, has extensive experience in the industry. Our management team has a track record of executing and successfully integrating acquisitions in the sector. Mr. Hill and his team successfully executed a similar consolidation strategy at another company in the industry, where Mr. Hill led the integration of 173 acquisitions worth, in the aggregate, approximately $6.3 billion, taking the business from less than $0.3 billion to $7.4 billion in sales from 1992 to 2008. 

Our Business Strategy 

Capitalize on expected recovery in U.S. economy and construction markets . The residential and nonresidential markets are starting to show positive growth signs in varying degrees across our markets. The PCA forecasts total housing starts to accelerate to 1.53 million in the United States by 2019. The American Institute of Architects&#146; Consensus Construction Forecast projects nonresidential construction to grow 8.2% in 2016. We believe that we have sufficient exposure to the residential and nonresidential end markets to benefit from a potential recovery in all of our markets. In 2015, approximately 78% of our revenue was derived from Texas, Kansas, Utah, Missouri and Kentucky. Across these states, Department of Transportation (&#147;DOT&#148;) budgets grew a combined 9.8% from 2014 to 2015. Given the nation&#146;s aging infrastructure and considering longstanding historical spending trends, we expect U.S. infrastructure investment to grow over time. We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on any such increase in investment. 

Expand local positions in the most attractive markets through targeted capital investments and bolt-on acquisitions . We plan to expand our business through organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions in each of our local markets. Our acquisition strategy involves acquiring platforms that serve as the foundation for continued incremental and complementary growth via locally situated bolt-on acquisitions to these platforms. We believe that increased local market scale will drive profitable growth. Our existing platform of operations is expected to enable us to grow significantly as we expand in our existing markets. In pursuing our growth strategy, we believe that our balance sheet and liquidity position will enable us to acquire most of the bolt-on acquisitions and platforms that we seek to purchase, but we may also pursue larger acquisition transactions that may require us to raise additional equity capital and indebtedness. Consistent with this strategy, we regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities, including ones that would be significant to us. We cannot predict the timing of any contemplated transactions. 

Drive profitable growth through strategic acquisitions . Our goal is to become a top-five U.S. construction materials company through the successful execution of our acquisition strategy and implementation of best practices to drive organic growth. Based on aggregates sales, in volumes, we believe that we are currently a top-ten player, which we achieved within five years of our first acquisition. We believe that the relative fragmentation of our 

&#160;

industry creates an environment in which we can continue to acquire companies at attractive valuations and increase scale and diversity over time through strategic acquisitions in markets adjacent to our existing markets within the states where we currently operate, as well as into additional states as market and competitive conditions support further growth. 

Enhance margins and free cash flow generation through implementation of operational improvements . Our management team includes individuals with decades of experience in our industry and proven success in integrating acquired businesses and organically growing operations. This experience represents a significant source of value to us that has driven Adjusted EBITDA margins up 651 basis points from the year ended December 28, 2013 to the year ended January 2, 2016. These margin improvements are accomplished through proven profit optimization plans, leveraging information technology and financial systems to control costs, managing working capital, achieving scale-driven purchasing synergies and fixed overhead control and reduction. Our segment presidents, supported by our central operations, risk management and finance and information technology teams, drive the implementation of detailed and thorough profit optimization plans for each acquisition post close, which typically includes, among other things, implementation of a systematic pricing strategy and an equipment utilization analysis that assesses repair and maintenance spending, the health of each piece of equipment and a utilization review to ensure we are maximizing productivity and selling any pieces of equipment that are not needed in the business. 

Leverage vertically-integrated and strategically located operations for growth . We believe that our vertical integration of construction materials, products and services is a significant competitive advantage that we will leverage to grow share in our existing markets and enter into new markets. A significant portion of materials used to produce our products and provide services to our customers is internally supplied, which enables us to operate as a single source provider of materials, products and paving and related services, creating cost, convenience and reliability advantages for our customers and enabling us to capture additional value throughout the supply chain, while at the same time creating significant cross-marketing opportunities among our interrelated businesses. 

Our Industry 

The U.S. construction materials industry is composed of four primary sectors: aggregates; cement; ready-mixed concrete; and asphalt paving mix. Each of these materials is widely used in most forms of construction activity. Participants in these sectors typically range from small, privately-held companies focused on a single material, product or market to multinational corporations that offer a wide array of construction materials and services. Competition is constrained in part by the distance materials can be transported efficiently, resulting in predominantly local or regional operations. Due to the lack of product differentiation, competition for all of our products is predominantly based on price and, to a lesser extent, quality of products and service. As a result, the prices we charge our customers are not likely to be materially different from the prices charged by other producers in the same markets. Accordingly, our profitability is generally dependent on the level of demand for our products and our ability to control operating costs. 

Transportation infrastructure projects, driven by both federal and state funding programs, represent a significant share of the U.S. construction materials market. Federal funds are allocated to the states, which are required to match a portion of the federal funds they receive. Federal highway spending uses funds predominantly from the Federal Highway Trust Fund, which derives its revenue from taxes on diesel fuel, gasoline and other user fees. The dependability of federal funding allows the state departments of transportation to plan for their long term highway construction and maintenance needs. Funding for the existing federal transportation funding program extends through 2020. With the nation&#146;s infrastructure aging, we expect U.S. infrastructure spending to grow over the long term, and we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on any such increase. 

In addition to federal funding, highway construction and maintenance funding is also available through state, county and local agencies. Our five largest states by revenue (Texas, Kansas, Utah, Missouri and Kentucky, 

&#160;

which represented approximately 33%, 16%, 11%, 10% and 8%, respectively, of our total revenue in 2015) each have funds whose revenue sources are constitutionally protected and may only be spent on transportation projects: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Texas Department of Transportation&#146;s budget from 2014 to 2016 is $25.3 billion. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Kansas has a 10 year $8.2 billion highway bill that was passed in May 2010. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Utah&#146;s transportation investment fund had $3.0 billion committed through 2018. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Missouri has an estimated $0.7 billion in annual construction funding committed to essential road and bridge programs through 2017. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Kentucky&#146;s biennial highway construction plan has funding of $3.6 billion from July 2014 to June 2016. Within many of our markets, state and local governments have taken actions to maintain or grow highway funding during a time of uncertainty with respect to federal funding. For example: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; On November 4, 2014, voters in Texas passed a proposition that is estimated to provide up to $1.7 billion of incremental funding annually to the Texas Department of Transportation. The funds must be used for construction, maintenance, rehabilitation and acquiring right-of-way for public roads. On November 3, 2015, voters in Texas passed an additional proposition that dedicates up to $2.5 billion of the state&#146;s sales and use tax revenue to the state&#146;s highway fund beginning in 2018, and 35% of any excess revenue over $5 billion generated from the motor vehicles sales tax beginning in 2020 &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Increases in heavy truck registration fees, dedicated sales tax revenue and bond issuances have enabled Kansas to maintain stability in public infrastructure spending. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; We believe that public infrastructure spending in Kentucky, which comprises the majority of our revenue in the state, will remain consistent in the upcoming years. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; We expect primarily maintenance-related public demand in Utah and Missouri, both of which have recently completed large spending programs. Demand for our products is observed to have low elasticity in relation to prices. We believe this is partially explained by the absence of competitive replacement products and relatively low contribution of our products to total construction costs. We do not believe that increases in our products&#146; prices are likely to affect the decision to undertake a construction project since these costs usually represent a small portion of total construction costs. 

Aggregates 

Aggregates are key material components used in the production of cement, ready-mixed concrete and asphalt paving mixes for the residential, nonresidential and public infrastructure markets and are also widely used for various applications and products, such as road and building foundations, railroad ballast, erosion control, filtration, roofing granules and in solutions for snow and ice control. Generally extracted from the earth using surface or underground mining methods, aggregates are produced from natural deposits of various materials such as limestone, sand and gravel, granite and trap rock. Once extracted, processed and graded, aggregates are supplied directly to their end use or incorporated for further processing into construction materials and products, such as cement, ready-mixed concrete and asphalt paving mix. 

According to the August 2015 U.S. Geological Survey, approximately 1.4 billion tons of crushed stone with a value of approximately $12.9 billion was produced in the United States in 2014, in line with the 1.3 billion tons produced in 2013. Sand and gravel production was approximately 988.8 million tons in 2014 valued at approximately $7.3 billion, up from 934 million tons produced in 2013. The U.S. aggregate industry is highly 

&#160;

fragmented relative to other building product markets, with numerous participants operating in localized markets and the top ten players controlling approximately 30% of the national market in 2013. In January 2015, the U.S. Geological Survey reported that a total of 1,550 companies operating 4,000 quarries and 91 underground mines produced or sold crushed stone in 2014 in the United States. 

Transportation costs are a major variable in determining aggregate pricing and marketing radius. The cost of transporting aggregate products from the plant to the market often equates to or exceeds the sale price of the product at the plant. As a result of the high transportation costs and the large quantities of bulk material that have to be shipped, finished products are typically marketed locally. High transportation costs are responsible for the wide dispersion of production sites. Where possible, construction material producers maintain operations adjacent to highly populated areas to reduce transportation costs and enhance margins. However, more recently, rising land values combined with local environmental concerns have been forcing production sites to move further away from the end-use locations. 

We believe that the long-term growth of the market for aggregates is predominantly driven by growth in population, employment and households, which in turn affects demand for nonresidential construction, including stores, shopping centers and restaurants and increases transportation infrastructure spending. In recent years, the recession and subsequent slow recovery in the United States has led to a decrease in overall private and public infrastructure construction activity. While short-term demand for aggregates fluctuates with economic cycles, the declines have historically been followed by strong recovery, with each peak establishing a new historical high. 

A significant portion of annual demand for aggregates is derived from large public infrastructure and highway construction projects. According to the Montana Contractors&#146; Association, approximately 38,000 tons of aggregate are required to construct a one mile stretch of a typical four-lane interstate highway. Highways located in markets with significant seasonal temperature variances are particularly vulnerable to freeze-thaw conditions that exert excessive stress on pavement and lead to more rapid surface degradation. Surface maintenance repairs, as well as general highway construction, occur in the warmer months, resulting in a majority of aggregates production and sales in the period from April through November in most states. 

Cement 

Portland cement, an industry term for the common cement in general use around the world, is made from a combination of limestone, shale, clay, silica and iron ore. It is a fundamental building material consumed in several stages throughout the construction cycle of residential, nonresidential and public infrastructure projects. It is a binding agent that, when mixed with sand or aggregates and water, produces either ready-mixed concrete or mortar and is an important component of other essential construction materials. Cement is sold either in bulk or in bags as branded products, depending on its final user. Few construction projects can take place without utilizing cement somewhere in the design, making it a key ingredient used in the construction industry. The majority of all cement shipments are sent to ready-mixed concrete operators. The remaining shipments are directed to manufacturers of concrete related products such as block and precast. Nearly two-thirds of U.S. consumption occurs between May and November, coinciding with end-market construction activity. 

The principal raw materials in cement are a blend of approximately 80% limestone and approximately 5% shale, with the remaining raw materials being clay and iron ore. Generally, the limestone and shale are mined from quarries located on site with the production plant. These core ingredients are blended and crushed into a fine grind and then preheated and ultimately introduced into a kiln heated to about 3,000&#176;F. Under this extreme heat, a chemical transformation occurs uniting the elements to form a new substance with new physical and chemical characteristics. This new substance is called clinker and it is formed into pieces about the size of marbles. The clinker is then cooled and later ground into a fine powder that then is classified as Portland cement. 

Cement production in the United States is distributed among 107 production facilities located across 36 states and is a capital-intensive business with variable costs dominated by raw materials and energy required 

&#160;

to fuel the kiln. Building new plants is challenging given the extensive permitting requirements and capital investment requirements. We estimate new plant construction costs in the United States to be approximately $250-300 per ton, not including costs for property or securing raw materials and the required distribution network. Assuming construction costs of $275 per ton, a 1.25 million ton facility, comparable to our Hannibal, Missouri cement plant&#146;s potential annual capacity, would cost approximately $343.8 million to construct. Establishing a distribution network, such as the seven terminals included in the Davenport Assets, adds significant cost to a cement plant investment. 

As reported by the PCA in the 2015 United States Cement Industry Annual Yearbook, consumption is down significantly from the industry peak of approximately 140.9 million tons in 2005 to approximately 97.8 million tons in 2014 because of a decline in U.S. construction activity. U.S. cement consumption has at times outpaced domestic production capacity with the shortfall being supplied with imports, primarily from China, Canada, Greece, Mexico and South Korea. The PCA reports that cement imports have declined since their peak of approximately 39.6 million tons in 2006 to approximately 9.3 million tons in 2014, in a manner indicative of the industry&#146;s general response to the demand downturn. In addition to the reduction in imports, according to the PCA, U.S. excess capacity increased from 5% in 2006 to approximately 25% in 2014. However, the PCA estimates that demand will exceed supply by 2017. 

On December 20, 2012, the EPA signed the PC-MACT, with which compliance was required in September 2015, notwithstanding certain extensions granted to individual cement plants to September 2016. The Hannibal and Davenport cement plants utilize alternative fuels, hazardous and non-hazardous at Hannibal and non-hazardous at Davenport, as well as coal, natural gas and petroleum coke and, as a result, are subject to the Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (&#147;HWC-MACT&#148;) and Commercial/Industrial Solid Waste Incinerators (&#147;CISWI&#148;) standards, respectively, rather than PC-MACT standards. The costs to comply with the existing HWC-MACT and CISWI standards are not expected to be material. 

Ready-Mixed Concrete 

Ready-mixed concrete is one of the most versatile and widely used materials in construction today. Its flexible recipe characteristics allow for an end product that can assume almost any color, shape, texture and strength to meet the many requirements of end users that range from bridges, foundations, skyscrapers, pavements, dams, houses, parking garages, water treatment facilities, airports, tunnels, power plants, hospitals and schools. The versatility of ready-mixed concrete gives engineers significant flexibility when designing these projects. 

Cement, coarse aggregate, fine aggregate, water and admixtures are the primary ingredients in ready-mixed concrete. The cement and water are combined and a chemical reaction process called hydration occurs whereby a paste is produced. This paste or binder represents between 15 to 20% of the volume of the mix that coats each particle of aggregate and serves as the agent that binds the aggregates together, according to the National Ready Mixed Concrete Association (&#147;NRMCA&#148;). The aggregates represent approximately 60 to 75% of the mix by volume, with a small portion of volume (5 to 8%) consisting of entrapped air that is generated by using air entraining admixtures. Once fully hydrated, the workable concrete will then harden and take on the shape of the form in which it was placed. 

The quality of a concrete mix is generally determined by the weight ratio of water to cement. Higher quality concrete is produced by lowering the water-cement ratio as much as possible without sacrificing the workability of the fresh concrete. Specialty admixtures such as high range water reducers can aid in achieving this condition without sacrificing quality. 

Other materials commonly used in the production of ready-mixed concrete include fly-ash, a waste by-product from coal burning power plants, silica fume, a waste by-product generated from the manufacture of silicon and ferro-silicon metals, and ground granulated blast furnace slag, a by-product of the iron and steel 

&#160;

manufacturing process. All of these products have cementitious properties that enhance the strength, durability and permeability of the concrete. These materials are available directly from the producer or via specialist distributors who intermediate between the ready-mixed concrete producers and the users. 

Given the high weight-to-value ratio, delivery of ready-mixed concrete is typically limited to a one-hour haul from a production plant and is further limited by a 90 minute window in which newly-mixed concrete must be poured to maintain quality and performance. As a result of the transportation constraints, the ready-mixed concrete market is highly localized, with an estimated 5,500 ready-mixed concrete plants in the United States according to the NRMCA. According to the NRMCA, 324.7 million cubic yards of ready-mixed concrete were produced in 2014, which is an 8% increase from the 300.4 million cubic yards produced in 2013 but a 29% decrease from the industry peak of 458.3 million cubic yards in 2005. 

Asphalt Paving Mix 

Asphalt paving mix is the most common roadway material used today. It is a versatile and essential building material that has been used to surface 93% of the more than 2.6 million miles of paved roadways in the United States, according to the National Asphalt Pavement Association (&#147;NAPA&#148;). 

Typically, asphalt paving mix is placed in three distinct layers to create a flexible pavement structure. These layers consist of a base course, an intermediate or binder course, and a surface or wearing course. These layers vary in thicknesses of three to six inches for base mix, two to four inches for intermediate mix and one to two inches for surface mix. 

According to NAPA, the components of asphalt paving mix by weight are approximately 95% aggregates and 5% asphalt cement, a petroleum based product that serves as the binder. The ingredients are then metered, mixed and heated to a temperature in excess of 300&#176;F before being placed in a truck and delivered to the jobsite for final placement. 

Asphalt pavement is generally 100% recyclable and reusable and is the most reused and recycled pavement material in the United States. Reclaimed asphalt pavement can be incorporated into new pavement at replacement rates in excess of 30% depending upon the mix and the application of the product. We actively engage in the recycling of previously used asphalt pavement and concrete. This material is crushed and repurposed in the construction cycle. Approximately 71.9 million tons of used asphalt is recycled annually by the industry according to a November 2014 NAPA survey. 

The use of warm mix asphalt (&#147;WMA&#148;) or &#147;green&#148; asphalt is gaining popularity. The immediate benefit to producing WMA is the reduction in energy consumption required by burning fuels to heat traditional hot mix asphalt (&#147;HMA&#148;) to temperatures in excess of 300&#176;F at the production plant. These high production temperatures are needed to allow the asphalt binder to become viscous enough to completely coat the aggregate in the HMA, have good workability during laying and compaction, and durability during traffic exposure. According to the Federal Highway Administration, WMA can reduce the temperature by 50 to 70&#176;F, resulting in lower emissions, fumes and odors generated at the plant and the paving site. 

According to NAPA, there are approximately 4,000 asphalt paving mix plants in the United States and an estimated 352.0 million tons of asphalt paving mix was produced in 2014, which was broadly in line with the estimated 350.7 million tons produced in 2013. 

Our Operations 

We operate our construction materials and products and paving and related services businesses through local operations and marketing teams, which work closely with our end customers to deliver the products and services that meet each customer&#146;s specific needs for a project. We believe that this strong local presence gives us a competitive advantage by keeping our costs low and allowing us to obtain a unique understanding for the evolving needs of our customers. 

&#160;

We have operations in 21 U.S. states and in British Columbia, Canada. Our business in each region is vertically-integrated. We supply aggregates internally for the production of cement, ready-mixed concrete and asphalt paving mix and a significant portion of our asphalt paving mix is used internally by our paving and related services businesses. In the year ended January 2, 2016, approximately 74% of our aggregates production was sold directly to outside customers with the remaining amount being further processed by us and sold as a downstream product. In addition, we operate a municipal waste and construction and demolition debris landfills in our East segment and have liquid asphalt terminal operations in our West and East segments. 

Approximately 80% of our asphalt paving mix was installed by our paving and related services businesses in the year ended January 2, 2016. We charge a market price and competitive margin at each stage of the production process in order to optimize profitability across our operations. Our production value chain is illustrated as follows: 

&#160;

&#160;

Construction Materials 

We are a leading provider of construction materials in the markets we serve. Our construction materials operations are composed of aggregates production, including crushed stone and construction sand and gravel, cement and ready-mixed concrete production and asphalt paving mix production. 

Our Aggregates Operations 

Aggregates Products 

We mine limestone, gravel, and other natural resources from 85 crushed stone quarries and 60 sand and gravel deposits throughout the United States and in British Columbia, Canada. Aggregates are produced mainly from blasting hard rock from quarries and then crushing and screening it to various sizes to meet our customers&#146; needs. The production of aggregates also involves the extraction of sand and gravel, which requires less crushing, but still requires screening for different sizes. Aggregate production utilizes capital intensive heavy equipment which includes the use of loaders, large haul trucks, crushers, screens and other heavy equipment at quarries. 

Once extracted, the minerals are processed and/or crushed on site into crushed stone, concrete and masonry sand, specialized sand, pulverized lime or agricultural lime. The minerals are processed to meet customer specifications or to meet industry standard sizes. Crushed stone is used primarily in ready-mixed concrete, asphalt paving mix, and the construction of road base for highways. 

&#160;

Our extensive network of quarries, plants and facilities, located throughout the regions in which we operate, enables us to have a nearby operation to meet the needs of customers in each of our markets. 

Aggregates Reserves 

As of January 2, 2016, we had approximately 2.1 billion tons of proven and probable reserves of recoverable stone, and sand and gravel of suitable quality for economic extraction. Our estimate is based on drilling and studies by geologists and engineers, recognizing reasonable economic and operating restraints as to maximum depth of extraction and permit or other restrictions. 

Reported proven and probable reserves include only quantities that are owned or under lease, and for which all required zoning and permitting have been obtained. Of the 2.1 billion tons of proven and probable aggregates reserves, 1.1 billion, or 52%, are located on owned land and 1.0 billion are located on leased land. 

Aggregates Sales and Marketing 

The cost of transportation from each quarry and the proximity of competitors are key factors that determine the effective market area for each quarry. Each quarry location is unique with regards to demand for each product, proximity to competition and distribution network. Each of our aggregates operations is responsible for the sale and marketing of its aggregates products. Approximately 74% of our aggregates production is sold directly to outside customers and the remaining amount is further processed by us and sold as a downstream product. Even though aggregates are a commodity product, we work to optimize pricing depending on the site location, availability of a particular product, customer type, project type and haul cost. We sell aggregates to internal downstream operations at market prices. 

Aggregates Competition 

The U.S. aggregate industry is highly fragmented with numerous participants operating in localized markets. The January 2015 U.S. Geological Survey reported that a total of 1,550 companies operating 4,000 quarries and 91 underground mines produced or sold crushed stone in 2014 in the United States. This fragmentation is a result of the cost of transporting aggregates, which typically limits producers to a market area within approximately 40 miles of their production facilities. 

The primary national players are large vertically-integrated companies, including Vulcan Materials Company, Martin Marietta Materials, Inc. (&#147;Martin Marietta&#148;), CRH plc, Heidelberg, LafargeHolcim and Cemex, S.A.B. de C.V., that have a combined estimated market share of approximately 40%. 

Competitors by segment include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; West&#151;CRH plc, Heidelberg Cement plc, Martin Marietta, CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V., LafargeHolcim and various local suppliers. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; East&#151;Martin Marietta., CRH plc, LafargeHolcim, Heidelberg Cement plc, Vulcan Materials Company and various local suppliers. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cement&#151;LafargeHolcim, Buzzi Unicem USA (&#147;Buzzi Unicem&#148;) and various local suppliers. We believe we have a strong competitive advantage in aggregates through our well located reserves in key markets, high quality reserves and our logistic networks. We further share and implement best practices relating to safety, strategy, sales and marketing, production, and environmental and land management. As a result of our vertical integration and local market knowledge, we have a strong understanding of the needs of our aggregates customers. In addition, our companies have a reputation for responsible environmental stewardship and land restoration, which assists us in obtaining new permits and new reserves. 

&#160;

Our Cement Operations 

Cement Products 

We operate a highly-efficient, technologically-advanced integrated cement manufacturing and distribution network through our cement plants in Hannibal, Missouri, 100 miles north of St. Louis, and Davenport, Iowa and our eight terminals along the Mississippi River from Minnesota to Louisiana. The combined potential capacity at our Hannibal and Davenport cement plants is 2.4 million short tons per annum. We also operate on-site waste fuel processing facilities at the plants, which can reduce plant fuel costs by up to 50%. Our Hannibal Plant is one of only 12 with hazardous waste fuel facilities permitted and operating out of 107 total cement plants in the United States. 

Cement Markets 

Cement is a product that is costly to transport. Consequently, the radius within which a typical cement plant is competitive is typically limited to 150 miles from any shipping/distribution point. However, access to rail and barge can extend the distribution radius significantly. With both of our plants located strategically on the Mississippi River, we are able to distribute cement from both of our plants by truck, rail and barge directly to customers or to our eight storage and distribution terminals along the Mississippi River. In 2015, approximately 58% and 26% of cement sold from the Hannibal and Davenport plants, respectively, was shipped by barge. Barge shipments extend our distribution radius and are generally more cost-effective than truck transport. 

Cement Sales and Marketing 

Our cement customers are ready-mixed concrete and concrete products producers and contractors within our markets. Sales are made on the basis of competitive prices in each market and, as is customary in the industry, we do not typically enter into long-term sales contracts. 

Cement Competition 

Construction of cement production facilities is highly capital intensive and requires long lead times to complete engineering design, obtain regulatory permits, acquire equipment and construct a plant. Most U.S. cement producers are owned by large foreign companies operating in multiple international markets. Our largest competitors include LafargeHolcim, whose parent companies merged, effective in July 2015, to create the world&#146;s largest cement maker, in addition to Buzzi Unicem. Competitive factors include price, reliability of deliveries, location, quality of cement and support services. With two cement plants, on-site raw material supply, a network of cement terminals, and longstanding customer relationships, we believe we are well positioned to serve our customers. 

Our Ready-mixed Concrete Operations 

Ready-mixed Concrete Products 

We believe our West and East segments are leaders in the supply of ready-mixed concrete in their respective markets. The West segment has ready-mixed concrete operations in the Houston and Midland/Odessa, Texas, Salt Lake Valley, Utah, Twin Falls, Idaho and Grand Junction, Colorado markets. Our East segment supplies ready-mixed concrete to the Wichita, Kansas and Columbia, Missouri markets and surrounding areas. We produce ready-mixed concrete by blending aggregates, cement, chemical admixtures, in various ratios, and water at our concrete production plants. 

Our aggregates business serves as the primary source of the raw materials for our concrete production, functioning essentially as a supplier to our ready-mixed concrete operations. Different types of concrete include lightweight concrete, high performance concrete, self-compacting/consolidating concrete and architectural concrete and are used in a variety of activities ranging from building construction to highway paving. 

&#160;

We operated 52 ready-mixed concrete plants and 419 concrete delivery trucks in the West segment and 22 ready-mixed concrete plants and 210 concrete delivery trucks in the East segment as of January 2, 2016. 

Ready-mixed Concrete Competition 

Ready-mixed concrete production requires relatively small amounts of capital to build a concrete batching plant and acquire delivery trucks. As a result, in each local market, we face competition from numerous small producers, as well as other large vertically-integrated companies with facilities in multiple markets. There are approximately 5,500 ready-mixed concrete plants in the United States, and in 2014 the U.S. ready-mixed concrete industry produced approximately 324.7 million cubic yards of ready-mixed concrete according to the NRMCA. Our ready-mixed concrete operations compete with CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. in Texas and CRH plc in Utah and Colorado and various other privately owned competitors in other parts of the West and East segments. 

Competition among ready-mixed concrete suppliers is generally based on product characteristics, delivery times, customer service and price. Product characteristics such as tensile strength, resistance to pressure, durability, set times, ease of placing, aesthetics, workability under various weather and construction conditions as well as environmental effect are the main criteria that our customers consider for selecting their product. Our quality assurance program produces results in excess of design strengths while optimizing material costs. Additionally, we believe our strategic network of locations and superior customer service gives us a competitive advantage relative to other producers. 

Our Asphalt Paving Mix Operations 

Asphalt Paving Mix Products 

Our asphalt paving mix products are produced by first heating carefully measured amounts of aggregates at high temperatures to remove the moisture from the materials in an asphalt paving mix plant. As the aggregates are heated, liquid asphalt is then introduced to coat the aggregates. Depending on the specifications of a particular mix, recycled asphalt may be added to the mix, which lowers the production costs. The aggregates used for production of these products are generally supplied from our quarries or sand and gravel plants. The ingredients are metered, mixed and brought up to a temperature in excess of 300&#176;F before being placed in a truck and delivered to the jobsite for final placement. 

As of January 2, 2016, we operated 28 and 19 asphalt paving mix plants in the West and East segments, respectively. Approximately 94% of our plants can utilize recycled asphalt pavement. 

Asphalt Paving Mix Sales and Marketing 

Approximately 80% of the asphalt paving mix we produce is installed by our own paving crews. The rest is sold on a per ton basis to road contractors, state departments of transportation and local agencies. Asphalt paving mix is used by our paving crews and by our customers primarily for the construction of roads, driveways and parking lots. 

Asphalt Paving Mix Competition 

According to NAPA, there were approximately 4,000 asphalt paving mix plants in the United States in 2015 and an estimated 352.0 million tons of asphalt paving mix was produced in 2014. Our asphalt paving mix operations compete with CRH plc and other local suppliers. Based on availability of internal aggregate supply, quality, operating efficiencies, and location advantages, we believe we are well positioned vis-&#224;-vis our competitors. 

Asphalt paving mix is generally applied at high temperatures. Prolonged exposure to air causes the mix to lose temperature and harden. Therefore, delivery is typically within close proximity to the asphalt paving mix 

&#160;

plant. Local market demand, proximity to competition, transportation costs and supply of aggregates and liquid asphalt vary widely from market to market. Most of our asphalt operations use a combination of company-owned and hired haulers to deliver materials to job sites. 

Asphalt Paving and Related Services 

As part of our vertical integration strategy, we provide asphalt paving and related services to both the private and public infrastructure sectors as either a prime or sub-contractor. These services complement our construction materials and products businesses by providing a reliable downstream outlet, in addition to our external distribution channels. 

Our asphalt paving and related services businesses bid on both private construction and public infrastructure projects in their respective local markets. We only provide paving and related services operations as a complement to our aggregates operations, which we believe is a major competitive strength. Factors affecting competitiveness in this business segment include price, estimating abilities, knowledge of local markets and conditions, project management, financial strength, reputation for quality and the availability of machinery and equipment. 

Contracts with our customers are primarily fixed price or fixed unit price. Under fixed unit price contracts, we provide materials or services at fixed unit prices (for example, dollars per ton of asphalt placed). While the fixed unit price contract shifts the risk of estimating the quantity of units required for a particular project to the customer, any increase in our unit cost over the bid amount, whether due to inflation, inefficiency, errors in our estimates or other factors, is borne by us unless otherwise provided in the contract. Most of our contracts contain adjusters for changes in liquid asphalt prices. 

Customers 

Our business is not dependent on any single customer or a few customers. Therefore, the loss of any single or particular small number of customers would not have a material adverse effect on any individual respective market in which we operate or on us as a whole. No individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our 2015 revenue. 

Seasonality 

Use and consumption of our products fluctuate due to seasonality. Nearly all of the products used by us, and by our customers, in the private construction or public infrastructure industries are used outdoors. Our highway operations and production and distribution facilities are also located outdoors. Therefore, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions, in particular extended rainy and cold weather in the spring and fall and major weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, tropical storms and heavy snows, can adversely affect our business and operations through a decline in both the use of our products and demand for our services. In addition, construction materials production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occurs in the spring, summer and fall. Warmer and drier weather during the second and third quarters of our fiscal year typically result in higher activity and revenue levels during those quarters. The first quarter of our fiscal year has typically lower levels of activity due to weather conditions. 

Backlog 

Our products are generally delivered upon receipt of orders or requests from customers, or shortly thereafter. Accordingly, the backlog associated with product sales is converted into revenue within a relatively short period of time. Inventory for products is generally maintained in sufficient quantities to meet rapid delivery requirements of customers. Therefore, a period over period increase or decrease of backlog does not necessarily result in an improvement or a deterioration of our business. Our backlog includes only those products and 

&#160;

projects for which we have obtained a purchase order or a signed contract with the customer and does not include products purchased and sold or services awarded and provided within the period. 

Subject to applicable contract terms, substantially all contracts in our backlog may be cancelled or modified by our customers. Historically, we have not been materially adversely affected by contract cancellations or modifications. The following table sets forth our backlog as of the indicated dates: 

&#160;

(in thousands) &#160; 2015 &#160; &#160; 2014 &#160; &#160; 2013 &#160; Aggregate (in tons)

&#160; &#160; 6,519 &#160; &#160; &#160; 4,853 &#160; &#160; &#160; 5,153 &#160; Ready-mixed concrete (in cubic yards)

&#160; &#160; 341 &#160; &#160; &#160; 260 &#160; &#160; &#160; 138 &#160; Asphalt (in tons)

&#160; &#160; 1,730 &#160; &#160; &#160; 2,112 &#160; &#160; &#160; 2,387 &#160; Construction services(1)

&#160; $ 264,190 &#160; &#160; $ 301,333 &#160; &#160; $ 359,263 &#160; &#160;

&#160; (1) The dollar value of the construction services backlog includes the value of the aggregate and asphalt tons and ready-mixed concrete cubic yards in backlog that are expected to be sourced internally. Intellectual Property 

We do not own or have a license or other rights under any patents that are material to our business. 

Corporate Information 

Summit Materials, Inc. and Summit Materials, LLC were formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on September 23, 2014 and September 24, 2008, respectively. Our principal executive office is located at 1550 Wynkoop Street, 3rd Floor, Denver, Colorado 80202. Through its predecessor, Summit Inc. commenced operations in 2009 when Summit Holdings was formed as an exempted limited partnership in the Cayman Islands. In December 2013, Summit Holdings was domesticated as a limited partnership in Delaware. Our telephone number is (303) 893-0012. 

Employees 

As of January 2, 2016 we had approximately 4,300 employees, of whom approximately 76% were hourly workers and the remainder were salaried employees. Because of the seasonal nature of our industry, many of our hourly and certain of our salaried employees are subject to seasonal layoffs. The scope of layoffs varies greatly from season to season as they are predominantly a function of the type of projects in process and the weather during the late fall through early spring. 

Approximately 6.1% of our hourly employees and approximately 0.4% of our salaried employees are union members. We believe we enjoy a satisfactory working relationship with our employees and their unions. 

Legal Proceedings 

We are party to certain legal actions arising from the ordinary course of business activities. While the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, management expects that the ultimate resolution of all current pending or threatened claims and litigation will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 

Environmental and Government Regulation 

We are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the environment and to health and safety, including noise, discharges to air and water, waste management including the management of hazardous waste used as a fuel substitute in our Hannibal, Missouri cement kiln and solid waste used as a fuel substitute in our Davenport, Iowa cement kiln, remediation of contaminated sites, mine reclamation, operation 

&#160;

and closure of landfills and dust control and to zoning, land use and permitting. Our failure to comply with such laws and regulations can result in sanctions such as fines or the cessation of part or all of our operations. From time to time, we may also be required to conduct investigation or remediation activities. There also can be no assurance that our compliance costs or liabilities associated with such laws and regulations or activities will not be significant. 

In addition, our operations require numerous governmental approvals and permits. Environmental operating permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation and can require us to make capital, maintenance and operational expenditures to comply with the applicable requirements. Stricter laws and regulations, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, reduce operation hours, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. We regularly monitor and review our operations, procedures and policies for compliance with environmental laws and regulations, changes in interpretations of existing laws and enforcement policies, new laws that are adopted, and new requirements that we anticipate will be adopted that could affect our operations. 

Multiple permits are required for our operations, including those required to operate our cement plants. Applicable permits may include conditional use permits to allow us to operate in certain areas absent zoning approval and operational permits governing, among other matters, air and water emissions, dust, particulate matter and storm water management and control. In addition, we are often required to obtain bonding for future reclamation costs, most commonly specific to restorative grading and seeding of disturbed surface areas. 

Like others in our industry, we expend substantial amounts to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and permit limitations, which include amounts for pollution control equipment required to monitor and regulate emissions into the environment. The Davenport Plant is subject to CISWI standards, for which we do not expect any material future costs to achieve or maintain compliance. Since many environmental requirements are likely to be affected by future legislation or rule making by government agencies, and are therefore not quantifiable, it is not possible to accurately predict the aggregate future costs of compliance and their effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 

At most of our quarries, we incur reclamation obligations as part of our mining activities. Reclamation methods and requirements can vary depending on the individual site and state regulations. Generally, we are required to grade the mined properties to a certain slope and seed the property to prevent erosion. We record a mining reclamation liability in our consolidated financial statements to reflect the estimated fair value of the cost to reclaim each property including active and closed sites. 

Our operations in Kansas include one municipal waste landfill and two construction and demolition debris landfills, one of which has been closed. Among other environmental, health and safety requirements, we are subject to obligations to appropriately close those landfills at the end of their useful lives and provide for appropriate post-closure care. Asset retirement obligations relating to these landfills are recorded in our consolidated financial statements. 

Health and Safety 

Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of worker health and safety requirements, particularly those administered by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (&#147;OSHA&#148;) and Mine Safety and Health Administration (&#147;MSHA&#148;). Throughout our organization, we strive for a zero-incident safety culture and full compliance with safety regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in sanctions such as fines and penalties and claims for personal injury and property damage. These requirements may also result in increased operating and capital costs in the future. Worker safety and health matters are overseen by our corporate risk management and safety department as well as operating company level safety managers. We provide our operating company level safety managers leadership and support, comprehensive training, and other tools designed to accomplish health and safety goals, reduce risk, eliminate hazards, and ultimately make our work places safer. 

&#160;

Insurance 

Our insurance program is structured using multiple &#147;A&#148; rated insurance carriers, and a variety of deductible amounts. In particular, our workers compensation, general liability and auto liability policies are subject to a $500,000 per occurrence deductible. Losses within these deductibles are accrued for using projections based on past loss history. 

We also maintain $50.0 million in combined umbrella insurance. Other policies have smaller deductibles and include property, contractors equipment, contractors pollution and professional, directors and officers, employment practices liability and fiduciary and crime. We also have a separate marine insurance policy for our cement operations on the Mississippi River, which ship cement on the river via barge. 

&#160;

