 Item 1. Business. 

General 

Farmers National Banc Corp. 

Farmers National Banc Corp. (the "Company," "Farmers," "we," "our" or "us"), is a one-bank holding company organized in 1983 under the laws of the State of Ohio and registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHCA"). The Company operates principally through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, The Farmers National Bank of Canfield (the "Bank" or "Farmers Bank"), Farmers Trust Company ("Trust" or "Farmers Trust") and National Associates, Inc. ("NAI"). Farmers National Insurance, LLC ("Insurance" or "Farmers Insurance") and Farmers of Canfield Investment Co. ("Investments or "Farmers Investments") are wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Bank. The Company and its subsidiaries operate in the domestic banking, trust, retirement consulting, insurance and financial management industries. 

The Company’s principal business consists of owning and supervising its subsidiaries. Although Farmers’ directs the overall policies of its subsidiaries, including lending practices and financial resources, most day-to-day affairs are managed by their respective officers. Farmers and its subsidiaries had 432 full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2015. 

The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 20 South Broad Street, Canfield, Ohio 44406, and its telephone number is (330) 533-3341. Farmers’ common shares, no par value, are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market (the "NASDAQ") under the symbol "FMNB." Farmers’ business activities are managed and financial performance is primarily aggregated and reported in three lines of business, the Bank segment, the Trust segment and the Retirement planning/consulting segment. For a discussion of Farmers’ financial performance for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, see the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements found in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The Farmers National Bank of Canfield 

During 2015 the Company acquired all outstanding stock of National Bancshares Corporation ("NBOH"), the parent company of First National Bank of Orrville ("First National Bank") and Tri-State 1stBanc, Inc. ("Tri-State"), the parent company of 1 st National Community Bank ("FNCB"). Additional discussion about the acquisitions can be found in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Bank is a full-service national banking association engaged in commercial and retail banking mainly in Mahoning, Trumbull, Columbiana, Wayne, Medina and Stark Counties in Ohio and with the acquisition of Tri-State, one location in Beaver County, Pennsylvania. The Bank’s commercial and retail banking services include checking accounts, savings accounts, time deposit accounts, commercial, mortgage and installment loans, home equity loans, home equity lines of credit, night depository, safe deposit boxes, money orders, bank checks, automated teller machines, internet banking, travel cards, "E" Bond transactions, MasterCard and Visa credit cards, brokerage services and other miscellaneous services normally offered by commercial banks. 

A discussion of the general development of the Bank’s business and information regarding its financial performance throughout 2015, is discussed in Item 7, Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The Bank faces significant competition in offering financial services to customers. Ohio has a high density of financial service providers, many of which are significantly larger institutions that have greater financial resources than the Bank, and all of which are competitors to varying degrees. Competition for loans comes principally from savings banks, savings and loan associations, commercial banks, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, insurance companies and other financial service companies. The most direct competition for deposits has historically come from savings and loan associations, savings banks, commercial banks and credit unions. Additional competition for deposits comes from non-depository competitors such as the mutual fund industry, securities and brokerage firms and insurance companies. 

Farmers Trust Company 

Farmers Trust offers a full complement of personal and corporate trust services in the areas of estate settlement, trust administration and employee benefit plans. Farmers Trust operates two offices located in Boardman and Howland, Ohio. 

National Associates, Inc. 

During 2013, the Company completed the acquisition of all outstanding stock of the retirement planning consultancy National Associates, Inc. of Cleveland, Ohio. The transaction involved both cash and stock totaling $4.4 million, including up to $1.5 million of future payments, contingent upon NAI meeting income performance targets. The acquisition is part of the Company’s plan to increase the levels of noninterest income and to complement the existing retirement service currently being offered. NAI operates from its office located in Rocky River, Ohio. 

Farmers National Insurance, LLC 

Farmers Insurance was formed during 2009 and offers a variety of insurance products through licensed representatives. Farmers Insurance is a subsidiary of Farmers Bank and does not account for a material portion of the revenue and, therefore, will not be discussed individually, but as part of the Bank. 

Farmers of Canfield Investment Company 

Farmers of Canfield Investment Company was formed during 2014 with the primary purpose of investing in municipal securities. Farmers Investments is a subsidiary of Farmers Bank and does not account for a material portion of the revenue and, therefore, will not be discussed individually, but as part of the Bank.

Investor Relations 

The Company maintains an Internet site at http://www.farmersbankgroup.com , which contains an Investor Relations section that provides access to the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") Farmers makes available free of charge on or through its website the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such documents filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed these documents with the Commission. In addition, the Company’s filings with the Commission may be read and copied at the Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. These filings are also available on the Commission’s web-site at http://www.sec.gov free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed the above referenced reports. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Introduction 

The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies. The regulation of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries is intended primarily for the protection of consumers, depositors, borrowers, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole and not for the protection of shareholders. This intensive regulatory environment, among other things, may restrict the Company’s ability to diversify into certain areas of financial services, acquire depository institutions in certain markets or pay dividends on its common shares. It also may require the Company to provide financial support to its banking and other subsidiaries, maintain capital balances in excess of those desired by management and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a result of the deterioration in the financial condition of depository institutions in general. 

Significant aspects of the laws and regulations that have, or could have a material impact on Farmers and its subsidiaries are described below. These descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the applicable statutes, legislation, regulations and policies, as they may be amended or revised by the U.S. Congress or state legislatures and federal or state regulatory agencies, as the case may be. Changes in these statutes, legislation, regulations and policies may have a material adverse effect on the Company and its business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Regulatory Agencies 

Bank Holding Company . As a bank holding company, Farmers is subject to regulation under the BHCA and to inspection, examination and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board"). The Federal Reserve Board has extensive enforcement authority over bank holding companies and may initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. The Federal Reserve Board may assess civil money penalties, issue cease and desist or removal orders and may require that a bank holding company divest subsidiaries, including subsidiary banks. Farmers is also required to file reports and other information with the Federal Reserve Board regarding its business operations and those of its subsidiaries. 

Subsidiary Bank . The Bank is subject to regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC") and secondarily by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC"). OCC regulations govern permissible activities, capital requirements, dividend limitations, investments, loans and other matters. The OCC has extensive enforcement authority over Farmers Bank and may impose sanctions on Farmers Bank and, under certain circumstances, may place Farmers Bank into receivership. 

Farmers Bank is also subject to certain restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Board regulations regarding such matters as the maintenance of reserves against deposits, extensions of credit to Farmers or any of its subsidiaries, investments in the stock or other securities of Farmers or its subsidiaries and the taking of such stock or securities as collateral for loans to any borrower. 

Non-Banking Subsidiaries . Farmers’ non-banking subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and other applicable federal and state agencies. In particular, Farmers National Insurance is subject to regulation by the Ohio Department of Insurance, which requires, amongst other things, the education and licensing of agencies and individual agents and imposes business conduct rules. 

Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC . The Company is also under the regulation and supervision of the Commission and certain state securities commissions for matters relating to the offering and sale of its securities. The Company is subject to disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and the Exchange Act, and the regulations promulgated there under. Farmers common shares are listed on the NASDAQ under the symbol "FMNB" and the Company is subject to the rules for NASDAQ listed companies. 

Federal Home Loan Bank . Farmers Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati (the "FHLB"), which provides credit to its members in the form of advances. As a member of the FHLB, the Bank must maintain an investment in the capital stock of the FHLB in a specified amount. Upon the origination or renewal of a loan or advance, the FHLB is required by law to obtain and maintain a security interest in certain types of collateral. The FHLB is required to establish standards of community investment or service that its members must maintain for continued access to long-term advances from the FHLB. The standards take into account a member’s performance under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the "CRA") and its record of lending to first-time home buyers. 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation . The FDIC is an independent federal agency that insures the deposits, up to prescribed statutory limits, of federally-insured banks and savings associations and safeguards the safety and soundness of the financial institution industry. The Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC and subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. 

The FDIC may terminate insurance coverage upon a finding that an insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution’s regulatory agency. 

Dodd-Frank Act 

In July 2013, the Federal banking regulators approved a final rule to implement the revised capital adequacy standards of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly called Basel III, and to address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule strengthens the definition of regulatory capital, increases risk-based capital requirements, makes selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets, and adjusts the prompt corrective action thresholds. Community banking organizations, such as the Company and the Bank, became subject to the new rule on January 1, 2015 and certain provisions of the new rule will be phased in over the period of 2015 through 2019.

The final rule: 

- 

Permits banking organizations that had less than $15 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009 to include in Tier 1 capital trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred stock that were issued and included in Tier 1 capital prior to May 19, 2010, subject to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital elements, excluding any non-qualifying capital instruments and after all regulatory capital deductions and adjustments have been applied to Tier 1 capital. 

- 

Establishes new qualifying criteria for regulatory capital, including new limitations on the inclusion of deferred tax assets and mortgage servicing rights. 

- 

Requires a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4.5%. 

- 

Increases the minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio requirement from 4% to 6%. 

- 

Retains the minimum total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio requirement of 8%. 

- 

Establishes a minimum leverage ratio requirement of 4%. 

- 

Retains the existing regulatory capital framework for 1-4 family residential mortgage exposures. 

- 

Permits banking organizations that are not subject to the advanced approaches rule, such as the Company and the Bank, to retain, through a one-time election, the existing treatment for most accumulated other comprehensive income, such that unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale will not affect regulatory capital amounts and ratios. 

- 

Implements a new capital conservation buffer requirement for a banking organization to maintain a common equity capital ratio more than 2.5% above the minimum common equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total risk-based capital ratios in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividend payments, and certain discretionary bonus payments. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning on January 1, 2016 at 0.625% and will be fully phased in at 2.50% by January 1, 2019. A banking organization with a buffer of less than the required amount would be subject to increasingly stringent limitations on such distributions and payments as the buffer approaches zero. The new rule also generally prohibits a banking organization from making such distributions or payments during any quarter if its eligible retained income is negative and its capital conservation buffer ratio was 2.5% or less at the end of the previous quarter. The eligible retained income of a banking organization is defined as its net income for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter, based on the organization’s quarterly regulatory reports, net of any distributions and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income. 

- 

Increases capital requirements for past-due loans, high volatility commercial real estate exposures, and certain short-term commitments and securitization exposures. 

- 

Expands the recognition of collateral and guarantors in determining risk-weighted assets. 

- 

Removes references to credit ratings consistent with the Dodd Frank Act and establishes due diligence requirements for securitization exposures. 

The Company’s continues to evaluate the provisions of the final rule. Many aspects of the Dodd Frank Act continue to be subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several additional years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company.

Various legislation affecting financial institutions and the financial industry will likely continue to be introduced in Congress, and such legislation may further change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance depending upon whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any implementing regulations, would have on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. With the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the nature and extent of future legislative and regulatory changes affecting financial institutions remains very unpredictable at this time. 

Also, such statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies and are subject to change at any time, particularly in the current economic and regulatory environment. Any such change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company could have a material effect on the business of the Company. 

Bank Holding Company Regulation 

As a bank holding company, Farmers’ activities are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Reserve Board under the BHCA. Generally, the BHCA limits the business of bank holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks and other activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding company is expected to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support those subsidiary banks. Under this policy, the Federal Reserve Board may require a bank holding company to contribute additional capital to an undercapitalized subsidiary bank and may disapprove of the payment of dividends to the holding company’s shareholders if the Federal Reserve Board believes the payment of such dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice. The Dodd-Frank Act codified this policy as a statutory requirement. 

The BHCA requires prior approval by the Federal Reserve Board for a bank holding company to directly or indirectly acquire more than a 5.0% voting interest in any bank or its parent holding company. Factors taken into consideration in making such a determination include the effect of the acquisition on competition, the public benefits expected to be received from the acquisition, the projected capital ratios and levels on a post-acquisition basis, and the acquiring institution’s record of addressing the credit needs of the communities it serves. 

The BHCA also governs interstate banking and restricts Farmers’ nonbanking activities to those determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be financial in nature, or incidental or complementary to such financial activity, without regard to territorial restrictions. Transactions among the Bank and its affiliates are also subject to certain limitations and restrictions of the Federal Reserve Board, as described more fully under the caption "Dividends and Transactions with Affiliates" in this Item 1. 

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 permits a qualifying bank holding company to elect to become a financial holding company and thereby affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature and not otherwise permissible for a bank holding company. Farmers has not elected to seek financial holding company status. 

Regulation of Nationally-Chartered Banks 

As a national banking association, Farmers Bank is subject to regulation under the National Banking Act and is periodically examined by the OCC. OCC regulations govern permissible activities, capital requirements, dividend limitations, investments, loans and other matters. Furthermore, Farmers Bank is subject, as a member bank, to certain rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board, many of which restrict activities and prescribe documentation to protect consumers. Under the Bank Merger Act, the prior approval of the OCC is required for a national bank to merge with, or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of, another bank. In reviewing applications to approve merger and other acquisition transactions, the OCC and other bank regulatory authorities may include among their considerations the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the combined organization, the applicant’s performance under the CRA, and fair housing laws, and the effectiveness of the entities in restricting money laundering activities. In addition, the establishment of branches by Farmers Bank is subject to the prior approval of the OCC. The OCC has the authority to impose sanctions on the Bank and, under certain circumstances, may place Farmers Bank into receivership. 

The Bank is also an insured institution as a member of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, it is subject to regulation and deposit insurance assessments by the FDIC. 

Dividends and Transactions with Affiliates 

The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and its other subsidiaries. The Company’s principal source of funds to pay dividends on its common shares and service its debt is dividends from Farmers Bank and its other subsidiaries. Various federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Farmers Bank may pay to Farmers without regulatory approval. Farmers Bank generally may not, without prior regulatory approval, pay a dividend in an amount greater than its undivided profits after deducting statutory bad debt in excess of the bank’s allowance for loan losses. In addition, prior approval of the OCC is required for the payment of a dividend if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year would exceed the total of Farmers Bank’s net income for the year combined with its retained net income for the two preceding years. 

In addition, Farmers and Farmers Bank are subject to other regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums. The federal banking agencies are authorized to determine under certain circumstances that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit paymen t thereof. The federal banking agencies have stated that paying dividends that deplete a bank’s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice and that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of cu rrent operating earnings. In addition, in the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maxim um allowable levels, unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. Thus, the ability of Farmers to pay dividends in the future is currently influenced, and could be further influenced, by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines. 

The Bank is subject to restrictions under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other items of value to the Company and its nonbanking subsidiaries and affiliates, whether in the form of loans and other extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, or other transactions involving the transfer of value from a subsidiary to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. These regulations limit the types and amounts of transactions (including loans due and extensions of credit) that may take place and generally require those transactions to be on an arm’s-length basis. In general, these regulations require that any "covered transaction" by Farmers Bank with an affiliate must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and must be limited, as to any one of Farmers or its non-bank subsidiaries, to 10% of Farmers Bank’s capital stock and surplus, and, as to Farmers and all such non-bank subsidiaries in the aggregate, to 20% of Farmers Bank’s capital stock and surplus. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expanded the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization including, for example, the requirement that the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions apply to financial subsidiaries. "Covered transactions" are defined by statute to include a loan or extension of credit, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve Board) from the affiliate, certain derivative transactions that create a credit exposure to an affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. 

Capital loans from the Company to the Bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other indebtedness of the Bank. In the event of Farmers’ bankruptcy, any commitment by Farmers to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of Farmers Bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act of 1950, as amended, provides that, in the event of the "liquidation or other resolution" of an insured depository institution such as the Bank, the insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including the Company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Capital Adequacy 

Both Farmers and Farmers Bank are subject to risk-based capital requirements imposed by their respective primary federal banking regulator. The Federal Reserve Bank monitors the capital adequacy of Farmers and the FDIC monitors the capital adequacy of Farm ers Bank. The revised risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and insured depository institutions, including the Company and the Bank, to make them consistent with agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ("Basel III") became effective for the Company and the Bank on January 1, 2015. The Basel III Rules require the maintenance of minimum amounts and ratios of common equity tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital and total capital to risk-weighted assets, and of tier 1 capital to adjusted quarterly average assets. 

Under the Basel III Rules, common equity tier 1 capital consists of common stock and paid-in capital (net of treasury stock) and retained earnings. Common equity tier 1 capital is reduced by goodwill, certain intangible assets, net of associated deferred tax liabilities, deferred tax assets that arise from tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards, net of any valuation allowance, and certain other items as specified by the Basel III Rules.

Tier 1 capital includes common equity tier 1 capital and certain additional tier 1 items as provided under the Basel III Rules.

Basel III Rules allow for insured depository institutions to make a one-time election not to include most elements of accumulated other comprehensive income in regulatory capital and instead effectively use the existing treatment under the general risk-based capital rules. The Company and Bank made this opt-out election in the first quarter of 2015 to avoid significant variations in the level of capital depending upon the impact of interest rate fluctuations on the fair value of our investment securities portfolio.

The Basel III Rules also changed the risk-weights of assets in an effort to better reflect credit risk and other risk e xposures. These include a 150% risk weight (up from 100%) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans and the unsecured portion of non-residential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise on nonaccrual status; a 20% (up from 0%) credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable; a 250% risk weight (up from 100%) for mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital; and increased risk weights (from 0% to up to 600%) for equity exposures. 

The Basel III Rules limit capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a "capital conservation buffer" consisting of 2.5% of common equity tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital and total capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet minimum risk-based capital requirements. The capital conservation buffer will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016, at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets, increasing each year by that amount until fully implemented at 2.5% on January 1, 2019. When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the Basel III Rules will require the Company and Bank to maintain (i) a minimum ratio of common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% capital conservation buffer, which effectively results in a minimum ratio of 7.0% upon full implementation, (ii) a minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus a 2.5% capital conservation buffer, which effectively results in a minimum ratio of 8.50% upon full implementation, (iii) a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus a 2.5% capital conservation buffer, which effectively results in a minimum ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%.

Prior to January 1, 2015, federal regulatory agencies required the Company and Bank to maintain minimum tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted assets of 4.0% and 8.0%, respectively, and tier 1 capital to average assets (tier 1 leverage ratio) of at least 4.0%. In order to be considered well capitalized under the rules in effect prior to January 1, 2015, the Company had to maintain tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted assets of 6.0% and 10.0%, respectively, and a leverage ratio of 5.0%. Tier 1 capital consisted of common equity, retained earnings, certain types of preferred stock, qualifying minority interest and trust preferred securities, subject to limitations, and excluded goodwill and various intangible assets.

When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, Basel III will require banks to maintain: (i) as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of Common Equity Tier 1 ("CET1") to risk-weighted assets of 4.5%, plus a 2.5% "capital conservation buffer" (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, which will effectively result in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of 7.0%); (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% on full implementation); (iii) a minimum ratio of Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation); and (iv) as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet exposures (computed as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the quarter). 

The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to CET1, including the deduction of mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities if any one such category exceeds 10.0% of CET1 or if all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15.0% of CET1. 

The following is a summary of the other major changes from the current general risk-based capital rule:

- 

replacement of the external credit ratings approach to standards of creditworthiness with a simplified supervisory formula approach; 

- 

stricter limitations on the extent to which mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets and significant investments in unconsolidated financial institutions may be included in common equity tier 1 capital and the risk weight to be assigned to any amounts of such assets not deducted; and 

- 

increased risk weights for past-due loans, certain commercial real estate loans and some equity exposures, and selected other changes in risk weights and credit conversion factors. 

Notwithstanding its release of the Basel III framework as a final framework, the Basel Committee is considering further amendments to Basel III, including imposition of additional capital surcharges on globally systemically important financial institutions. In addition to Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act requires or permits federal banking agencies to adopt regulations affecting capital requirements in a number of respects, including potentially more stringent capital requirements for systemically important financial institutions. Accordingly, the regulations ultimately applicable to the Company may differ substantially from the currently published final Basel III framework. Requirements of higher capital levels or higher levels of liquid assets could adversely impact the Company’s net income and return on equity. 

Volcker Rule 

In December 2013, five federal agencies adopted a final regulation implementing the Volcker Rule provision of the Dodd-Frank Act (the "Volcker Rule"). The Volcker Rule places limits on the trading activity of insured depository institutions and entities affiliated with a depository institution, subject to certain exceptions. The trading activity includes a purchase or sale as principal of a security, derivative, commodity future or option on any such instrument in order to benefit from short-term price movements or to realize short-term profits. The Volcker Rule exempts specified U.S. Government, agency and/or municipal obligations, and it excepts trading conducted in certain capacities, including as a broker or other agent, through a deferred compensation or pension plan, as a fiduciary on behalf of customers, to satisfy a debt previously contracted, repurchase and securities lending agreements and risk-mitigating hedging activities. 

The Volcker Rule also prohibits a banking entity from having an ownership interest in, or certain relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund, with a number of exceptions.

The Bank does not engage in any of the trading activities or own any of the types of funds prohibited by the Volcker Rule.

Prompt Corrective Action 

The federal banking agencies have established a system of prompt corrective action to resolve certain of the problems of undercapitalized institutions. This system is based on five capital level categories for insured depository institutions: "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized," and "critically undercapitalized." 

The federal banking agencies may (or in some cases must) take certain supervisory actions depending upon a bank’s capital level. For example, the banking agencies must appoint a receiver or conservator for a bank within 90 days after it becomes "critically undercapitalized" unless the bank’s primary regulator determines, with the concurrence of the FDIC, that other action would better achieve regulatory purposes. Banking operations otherwise may be significantly affected depending on a bank’s capital category. For example, a bank that is not "well capitalized" generally is prohibited from accepting brokered deposits and offering interest rates on deposits higher than the prevailing rate in its market, and the holding company of any undercapitalized depository institution must guarantee, in part, specific aspects of the bank’s capital plan for the plan to be acceptable. 

Federal law permits the OCC to order the pro rata assessment of shareholders of a national bank whose capital stock has become impaired, by losses or otherwise, to relieve a deficiency in such national bank’s capital stock. This statute also provides for the enforcement of any such pro rata assessment of shareholders of such national bank to cover such impairment of capital stock by sale, to the extent necessary, of the capital stock owned by any assessed shareholder failing to pay the assessment. As the sole shareholder of Farmers Bank, the Company is subject to such provisions. 

Deposit Insurance 

Substantially all of the deposits of the Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC, and Farmers Bank is assessed deposit insurance premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. Insurance premiums for each insured institution are determined based upon the institution’s capital level and supervisory rating provided to the FDIC by the institution’s primary federal regulator and other information deemed by the FDIC to be relevant to the risk posed to the Deposit Insurance Fund by the institution. The assessment rate is then applied to the amount of the institution’s deposits to determine the institution’s insurance premium. 

On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule that changed the deposit insurance assessment base, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. As adopted, the final rule changed the deposit insurance assessment base from domestic deposits to average assets minus average tangible equity. In addition, the final rule also adopted a new large-bank pricing assessment scheme and established a target size for the Deposit Insurance Fund. Specifically, the final rule set a target size for the Deposit Insurance Fund at 2 percent of insured deposits and implements a lower assessment rate schedule when the fund reaches 1.15 percent and, in lieu of dividends, provides for a lower rate schedule when the reserve ratio reaches 2 percent and 2.5 percent. The final rule also created a scorecard-based assessment system for banks with more than $10 billion in assets. The final rule went into effect beginning with the second quarter of 2011. 

As insurer, the FDIC is authorized to conduct examinations of and to require reporting by federally-insured institutions. It also may prohibit any federally-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pos e a serious threat to the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FDIC also has the authority to take enforcement actions against insured institutions. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged or is engaging i n unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC or written agreement entered into with the FDIC. The management of the Bank does not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance. 

Fiscal and Monetary Policies 

The Company’s business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The Company is particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States in order to influence general economic conditions, primarily through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements against depository institutions’ deposits. These policies and regulations significantly affect the overall growth and distribution of loans, investments and deposits, as well as interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. 

The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve board have had a significant effect on operations and results of financial institutions in the past and are expected to have significant effects in the future. In view of the changing conditions in the economy, the money markets and activities of monetary and fiscal authorities, Farmers can make no predictions as to future changes in interest rates, credit availability or deposit levels. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The CRA requires depository institutions to assist in meeting the credit needs of their market areas consistent with safe and sound banking practice. Under the CRA, each depository institution is required to help meet the credit needs of its market areas by, among other things, providing credit to low- and moderate-income individuals and communities. Depository institutions are periodically examined for compliance with the CRA and are assigned ratings. In order for a bank holding company to commence any new activity permitted by the BHCA, or to acquire any company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHCA, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the bank holding company must have received a rating of at least "satisfactory" in its most recent examination under the CRA. Furthermore, banking regulators take into account CRA ratings when considering approval of a proposed transaction. Farmers received a rating of "satisfactory" in its most recent CRA examination. 

Customer Privacy 

Farmers Bank is subject to regulations limiting the ability of financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow customers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted and conveyed to outside vendors. 

Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act 

The Uniting and Strengthening of America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the "USA Patriot Act") and its related regulations require insured depository institutions, broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA Patriot Act and its regulations also provide for information sharing, subject to conditions, between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism purposes. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, or to comply with all of the relevant laws or regulations, could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. In addition, federal banking agencies are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering policies, procedures and controls of the applicants. 

Corporate Governance 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 effected broad reforms to areas of corporate governance and financial reporting for public companies under the jurisdiction of the Commission. The Company’s corporate governance policies include an Audit Committee Charter, a Compensation Committee Charter, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The Board of Directors reviews the Company’s corporate governance practices on a continuing basis. These and other corporate governance policies have been provided previously to shareholders and are available, along with other information on Farmers’ corporate governance practices, on the Company’s website at www.farmersbankgroup.com . 

As directed by Section 302(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer are each required to certify that the Company’s Quarterly and Annual Reports do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact. The rules have several requirements, including having these officers certify that: they are responsible for establishing, maintaining, and regularly evaluating the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls, they have made certain disclosures about the Company’s internal controls to its auditors and the audit committee of the Board of Directors, and they have included information in the Company’s Quarterly and Annual Reports about their evaluation and whether there have been significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the evaluation. 

Executive and Incentive Compensation 

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve Board, OCC and FDIC issued joint interagency guidance on incentive compensation policies (the "Joint Guidance") intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. This principles-based guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should: (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks; (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management; and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. 

Pursuant to the Joint Guidance, the Federal Reserve Board will review as part of a regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of financial institutions such as Farmers. Such reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization’s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination and deficiencies will be incorporated into the institution’s supervisory ratings, which can affect the institution’s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against an institution if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and prompt and effective measures are not being taken to correct the deficiencies. 

On February 7, 2011, the federal banking agencies jointly issued proposed rules on incentive-based compensation arrangements under applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act (the "Proposed Rules"). The Proposed Rules generally apply to financial institutions with $1.0 billion or more in assets that maintain incentive-based compensation arrangements for certain covered employees. The Proposed Rules: (i) prohibit covered financial institutions from maintaining incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage covered persons to expose the institution to inappropriate risk by providing the covered person with "excessive" compensation; (ii) prohibit covered financial institutions from establishing or maintaining incentive-based compensation arrangements for covered persons that encourage inappropriate risks that could lead to a material financial loss; (iii) require covered financial institutions to maintain policies and procedures appropriate to their size, complexity and use of incentive-based compensation to help ensure compliance with the Proposed Rules; and (iv) require covered financial institutions to provide enhanced disclosure to regulators regarding their incentive-based compensation arrangements for covered persons within 90 days following the end of the fiscal year. 

Public companies will also be required, once stock exchanges impose additional listing requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, to implement "clawback" procedures for incentive compensation payments and to disclose the details of the procedures which allow recovery of incentive compensation that was paid on the basis of erroneous financial information necessitating a restatement due to material noncompliance with financial reporting requirements. This clawback policy is intended to apply to compensation paid within a three year look-back window of the restatement and would cover all executives who received incentive awards. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also provides shareholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation practices, imposes new executive compensation disclosure requirements, and contains additional considerations of the independence of compensation advisors. 

Future Legislation 

Various and significant legislation affecting financial institutions and the financial industry is from time to time introduced in the U.S. Congress and state legislatures, as well as by regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change the operating environment for Farmers and its subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways and could significantly increase or decrease the costs of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among financial institutions. With the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act and the continuing implementation of final rules and regulations thereunder, the nature and extent of future legislative and regulatory changes affecting financial institutions remains very unpredictable. Farmers cannot predict the scope and timing of any such future legislation and, if enacted, the effect that it could have on its business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Summary 

To the extent that the foregoing information describes statutory and regulatory provisions applicable to the Company or its subsidiaries, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of those provisions or agreements. Also, such statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by the U.S. Congress and state legislatures as well as federal and state regulatory agencies and are subject to change at any time, particularly in the current economic and regulatory environment. Any such change in applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policies could have a material effect on Farmers and its business, financial condition or results of operations. 

