 Item 1. Business. 

General 

Encore Wire Corporation is a Delaware corporation, incorporated in 1989, with its principal executive office and manufacturing plants located at 1329 Millwood Road, McKinney, Texas 75069. The Company&#8217;s telephone number is (972) 562-9473. As used in this annual report, unless otherwise required by the context, the terms &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;Encore&#8221; and &#8220;Encore Wire&#8221; refer to Encore Wire Corporation and its consolidated entities. 

Encore is a low-cost manufacturer of electrical building wire and cable. The Company is a significant supplier of building wire for interior electrical wiring in commercial and industrial buildings, homes, apartments, and manufactured housing. 

The principal customers for Encore&#8217;s wire are wholesale electrical distributors, who sell building wire and a variety of other products to electrical contractors. The Company sells its products primarily through independent manufacturers&#8217; representatives located throughout the United States and, to a lesser extent, through its own direct in-house marketing efforts. 

Strategy 

Encore&#8217;s strategy is to further expand its share of the building wire market primarily by emphasizing a high level of customer service and the addition of new products that complement its current product line, while maintaining and enhancing its low-cost production capabilities. Encore&#8217;s low-cost production capability features an efficient plant design incorporating highly automated manufacturing equipment, an integrated production process and a highly motivated work force. 

Customer Service. &#32;Encore is highly focused on responding to customer needs, with an emphasis on building and maintaining strong customer relationships. Encore seeks to establish customer loyalty by achieving a high order fill rate and rapidly handling customer orders, shipments, inquiries and returns. The Company maintains product inventories sufficient to meet anticipated customer demand and believes that the speed and completeness with which it fills orders are key competitive advantages critical to marketing its products. 

Product Innovation. &#32;Encore has been a leader in bringing new ideas to a commodity product. Encore pioneered the widespread use of color feeder sizes of commercial wire and colors in the residential non-metallic cable. The colors have improved on-the-job safety and reduced installation times for contractors. Encore Wire&#8217;s patented SmartColor ID &#174; &#32;system for metal-clad and armor-clad cables allows for quick and accurate identification of gauge, number of conductors, wire and jacket type. Additionally, Encore currently has ten patents and twenty-nine patent-pending innovations that range from process improvements to packaging solutions. 

Low-Cost Production. &#32;Encore&#8217;s low-cost production capability features an efficient plant design and an incentivized work force. 

Efficient Plant Design. &#32;Encore&#8217;s highly automated wire manufacturing equipment is integrated in an efficient design that reduces material handling, labor and in-process inventory. 

Incentivized Work Force. &#32;The Company has a stock option plan and a stock appreciation rights plan that enhance the motivation of its salaried manufacturing supervisors. The Company also has a comprehensive safety program that emphasizes employee participation. The Company provides a 401(k) retirement savings plan to all employees. 

Products 

Encore offers an electrical building wire product line that consists primarily of NM-B cable, UF-B cable, THHN/THWN-2 and other types of wire products, including metal-clad and armored cable. All of these products are manufactured with copper or aluminum as the conductor. The principal bases for differentiation among stock-keeping units (&#8220;SKUs&#8221;) are product type, conductor type, diameter, insulation, color and packaging. 

Bare Copper. Bare copper conductors are used in overhead electrical transmission and distribution systems for grounding and bonding of electrical systems, and where high conductivity and flexibility are required for equipment and circuit grounding. 

NM-B Cable. Non-metallic sheathed cable is used primarily as interior wiring in homes, apartments and manufactured housing. NM-B cable is composed of either two or three insulated copper wire conductors, with an uninsulated ground wire, all sheathed in a polyvinyl chloride (&#8220;PVC&#8221;) jacket. 

UF-B Cable. Underground feeder cable is used to conduct power underground to outside lighting and other applications remote from buildings or structures. UF-B cable is composed of two or three polyvinyl chloride (PVC) insulated copper wire conductors, with an uninsulated ground wire, all jacketed in PVC. 

SE Style Cable (Style U). Service Entrance cable is primarily utilized as an aboveground external service entrance cable from the meter enclosure to the service distribution equipment. SE-U style cable is composed of copper or aluminum multiple conductors, insulated with polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or a single layer of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulation, all jacketed in polyvinyl chloride (PVC). 

SE Style Cable (Style R). Service Entrance cable is primarily utilized as an aboveground service entrance cable from the service disconnecting means to other remotely located electrical distribution equipment. SE-R style cable is composed of copper or aluminum multiple conductors, insulated with polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or a single layer of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulation, all jacketed in polyvinyl chloride (PVC). 

THHN/THWN-2 Cable. THHN/THWN-2 cable is used primarily as branch circuit, feeder and service entrance conductors within commercial and industrial buildings and structures. It is composed of a copper or aluminum single conductor, either stranded or solid, and insulated with PVC, which is further coated with nylon. Users typically pull THHN/THWN-2 cable through cable tray or protective conduit pipe. 

XHHW-2. XHHW-2 cable is used primarily as branch circuit, feeder and service entrance conductors within commercial and industrial buildings and structures. It is composed of a copper or aluminum single conductor, either stranded or solid, and with a single layer of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulation. 

USE-2 Cable. USE-2 or RHH or RHW-2 wire is intended for general purpose applications utilized in conduit or installed in underground applications or in recognized raceways for service, feeders, and branch-circuit wiring. It is composed of a copper or aluminum single conductor, either stranded or solid, and with a single layer of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulation suitable for wet locations. 

USE-2 or RHH or RHW-2. USE-2, RHH or RHW-2 cable is intended for general purpose applications in direct burial, underground applications as USE-2 or as RHH or RHW-2 for either aboveground or underground applications in listed raceways for branch circuit, feeder and service entrance conductors. It is composed of a copper or aluminum single conductor, either stranded or solid, and with a single layer of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulation suitable for wet locations. 

Tray Cable (Power and/or Control) - Tray Cable is primarily used as branch circuit or feeders for power, lighting, control, and signal circuits for direct installations in raceways, outdoor locations where supported by a messenger wire, in cable trays and direct burial in underground installations where evaluated for the specific condition of use. It is composed of copper or aluminum multiple conductors, insulated with polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) with either insulated or bare equipment grounding conductor, all jacketed in rugged polyvinyl chloride (PVC). 

Metal-Clad Cable. Metal-clad cable is used primarily as branch circuit, feeder, and service conductors, primarily in multi-family dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings. It is composed of multiple conductors, either stranded or solid, and insulated with polyvinyl chloride (PVC), which are further coated with nylon or with a single layer of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulation and then fully encased in a flexible aluminum or steel &#8220;armored&#8221; protective sheathing. 

Armored Cable. Armored cable is used primarily as branch circuit and feeders, primarily in commercial and industrial buildings. It is composed of multiple conductors, either stranded or solid, and insulated with polyvinyl chloride (PVC), which are further coated with nylon and then fully encased in a flexible aluminum or steel &#8220;armored&#8221; protective sheathing. 

Photovoltaic Single-Conductor Cable. Photovoltaic (PV) style conductors and/or cables are primarily intended for use as photovoltaic (PV) direct-current output circuit and source circuits between the PV arrays and combiner boxes. It is composed of a copper or aluminum single conductor, either stranded or solid, and with a single layer of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulation. 

URD or UDC Cable. Underground Residential Distribution Cable (URD) or Underground Distribution Cable (UDC) is primarily for underground secondary distribution, as service entrance conductors underground, and as service laterals. It may be directly buried in earth or installed in an electrical duct system in both wet and dry locations. It is composed of a copper or aluminum single conductor, either stranded or solid, and with a single layer of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulation. 

Mobile Home Feeder Cable. Mobile Home Feeder Cable is primarily for underground feeders to mobile homes as defined in Article 550 of the National Electrical Code&#174;. It may be directly buried in earth or in a listed raceway system in both wet and dry locations. It is composed of a copper or aluminum single conductor, either stranded or solid, and with a single layer of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulation. 

Overhead Service Drop. Overhead Service Drop conductors are primarily for overhead secondary distribution, as service entrance conductors overhead, and as service drop conductors from utility transformers to premise wiring systems. It is composed of 

electrical grade 1350 series aluminum alloy conductors, typically stranded, and with a single layer of cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) insulation. 

Manufacturing 

The efficiency of Encore&#8217;s highly automated manufacturing facility is a key element of its low-cost production capability. Encore&#8217;s residential wire manufacturing lines have been integrated so that the handling of product is substantially reduced throughout the production process. 

The manufacturing process for the Company&#8217;s various products involves multiple steps, including: casting, drawing, stranding, compounding, insulating, cabling, jacketing and armoring. 

Casting. Rod is produced by melting sheets of copper cathode and copper scrap, casting the molten copper into a bar and rolling the hot copper bar into a 5/16 inch copper rod to be drawn into copper wire. 

Drawing. Drawing is the process of reducing 5/16 inch copper rod through converging dies until the specified wire diameter is attained. The wire is then heated with electrical current to soften or &#8220;anneal&#8221; the wire to make it easier to handle. 

Stranding. Stranding is the process of twisting together from seven to sixty-one individual bare wire strands to form a single cable. The purpose of stranding is to improve the flexibility of wire while maintaining its electrical current carrying capacity. 

PVC Compounding. PVC compounding is the process of mixing the various raw materials that are required to produce the PVC necessary to meet specifications of Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. (&#8220;UL&#8221;) for the insulation and jacket requirements for the wire that is manufactured. 

Insulating. Insulating is the process of extruding PVC over the solid or stranded wire. 

Cabling. Cabling is the process of twisting together two or more insulated conductors to form a cable. 

Jacketing. Jacketing is the process of extruding PVC over two or more insulated conductor wires, with or without an uninsulated ground wire, to form a finished product. The Company&#8217;s jacketing lines are integrated with packaging lines that cut the wire and coil it onto reels or package it in boxes or shrink-wrap. Jacketing also comprises extruding a nylon covering over some PVC-insulated products, such as THHN/THWN-2. 

Metal-Cladding and Armoring. Metal-cladding and armoring is the process of covering two or more insulated conductor wires, with or without an uninsulated ground wire, with a spiral interlocking cover of aluminum or steel to form a finished product. 

Encore manufactures and tests all of its products in accordance with the Underwriters Laboratories (UL) standards, a nationally recognized testing and standards agency. Encore&#8217;s machine operators and quality control inspectors conduct routine product inspections. The Company tests finished products for electrical continuity to ensure compliance with its own quality standards and those of UL. Encore&#8217;s manufacturing lines are equipped with laser micrometers to measure wire diameter and insulation thickness while the lines are in operation. During each shift, operators perform and record routine physical measurements of products, all of which are separately verified and approved by quality control inspectors. Although suppliers pre-test PVC and nylon compounds, the Company tests products for aging, cracking and brittleness of insulation and jacketing. Additionally, UL representatives routinely visit and test products from each area of manufacturing. 

Customers 

Encore sells its wire principally to wholesale electrical distributors throughout the United States and, to a lesser extent, to retail home improvement centers. Most distributors supply products to electrical contractors. Encore&#8217;s customer base is numerous and diversified. Encore has no customer, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. 

Encore believes that the speed and completeness with which it fills customers&#8217; orders is crucial to its ability to expand the market share for its products. The Company also believes that, for a variety of reasons, many customers strive to maintain lean inventories. Because of this trend, the Company seeks to maintain sufficient inventories to satisfy customers&#8217; prompt delivery requirements. 

Marketing and Distribution 

Encore markets its products throughout the United States primarily through independent manufacturers&#8217; representatives and, to a lesser extent, through its own direct marketing efforts. 

Encore maintains the majority of its finished product inventory at its plant in McKinney, Texas. In order to provide flexibility in handling customer requests for immediate delivery, additional product inventories are maintained at warehouses owned and 

operated by independent manufacturers&#8217; representatives located in Chattanooga, Tennessee; Norcross, Georgia; Cincinnati, Ohio; Canton, Michigan; Edison, New Jersey; Louisville, Kentucky; Greensboro, North Carolina; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Santa Fe Springs, California; Hayward, California; and Lakeland, Florida. Some of these manufacturers&#8217; representatives, as well as the Company&#8217;s other manufacturers&#8217; representatives, maintain offices without warehouses in numerous locations throughout the United States. 

Finished goods are typically delivered to warehouses and customers by trucks operated by common carriers. The decision regarding the carrier to be used is based primarily on availability and cost. 

The Company invoices its customers directly for products purchased and, if an order has been obtained through a manufacturer&#8217;s representative, pays the representative a commission based on pre-established rates. The Company determines customer credit limits. The Company recorded no bad debt charges in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . The manufacturers&#8217; representatives have no discretion to determine prices charged for the Company&#8217;s products, and all sales are subject to Company approval. Encore sells all of its products with a one-year replacement warranty. Warranty expenses have historically been nominal. 

Employees 

Encore believes that its hourly employees are highly motivated and that their motivation contributes significantly to the plant&#8217;s efficient operation. The Company attributes the motivation of these employees largely to the fact that Encore offers competitive hourly compensation that is directly tied to productivity and quality standards. The Company believes that competitive hourly compensation coupled with sound management practices focuses its employees on maintaining high production standards and product quality. 

As of December 31, 2015 , Encore had 1,331 &#32;employees, 1,149 &#32;of whom were paid hourly wages and were primarily engaged in the operation and maintenance of the Company&#8217;s manufacturing and warehouse facility. The Company&#8217;s remaining employees were executive, supervisory, administrative, sales and clerical personnel. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. The Company has no collective bargaining agreements with any of its employees. 

Raw Materials 

The principal raw materials used by Encore in manufacturing its products are copper cathode, copper scrap, PVC thermoplastic compounds, XLPE compounds, aluminum, steel, paper and nylon, all of which are readily available from a number of suppliers. Copper is the principal raw material used by the Company in manufacturing its products, constituting 80.7% of the dollar value of all raw materials used by the Company during 2015. Copper requirements are purchased primarily from miners and commodity brokers at prices determined each month primarily based on the average daily COMEX closing prices for copper for that month, plus a negotiated premium. The Company also purchases raw materials necessary to manufacture various PVC thermoplastic compounds. These raw materials include PVC resin, clay and plasticizer. 

The Company produces copper rod from purchased copper cathode and copper scrap in its own rod fabrication facility. The Company reprocesses copper scrap generated by its operations as well as copper scrap purchased from others. In 2015, the Company&#8217;s copper rod fabrication facility manufactured the majority of the Company&#8217;s copper rod requirements. The Company purchases aluminum rod from various suppliers for aluminum wire production. 

The Company also compounds its own wire jacket and insulation compounds. The process involves the mixture of PVC raw material components to produce the PVC used to insulate the Company&#8217;s wire and cable products. The raw materials include PVC resin, clay and plasticizer. During the last year, the Company&#8217;s plastic compounding facility produced virtually all of the Company&#8217;s PVC requirements. 

Competition 

The electrical wire and cable industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with several companies who manufacture and sell wire and cable products beyond the building wire segment in which the Company competes. The Company&#8217;s primary competitors include Southwire Company, Cerro Wire LLC, United Copper Industries, General Cable Corporation and AFC Cable Systems, Inc. 

The principal elements of competition in the electrical wire and cable industry are, in the Company's opinion, order fill rate, quality, pricing, and, in some instances, breadth of product line. The Company believes that it is competitive with respect to all of these factors. 

Competition in the electrical wire and cable industry, although intense, has been primarily from U.S. manufacturers, including foreign-owned facilities located in the United States. The Company has encountered little significant competition from imports of building wire. The Company believes this is primarily because direct labor costs generally account for a relatively small 

percentage of the cost of goods sold for these products and freight costs are relatively high to bring wire to the United States from overseas. 

Compliance with Environmental Regulations 

The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations governing the Company&#8217;s operations and the use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances currently or formerly used by the Company. Management believes the Company is in compliance with all such rules including permitting and reporting requirements. Historically, compliance with such laws and regulations has not had a material impact on the capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position of the Company. 

Research and Development Activities 

The Company classifies research and development activities as a component of production overhead. Research and development costs were approximately $1.8 million , $1.7 million &#32;and $1.5 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Research and development costs attributable to customer-sponsored research activities performed by the Company were insignificant. 

Intellectual Property Matters 

From time to time, the Company files patent applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The Company currently owns several patents and pending patent applications. The Company also owns several registered trademarks and pending trademark applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The current registrations for the marks will expire on various dates between 2016 and 2023, but each registration can be renewed indefinitely as long as the respective mark continues to be used in commerce and the requisite proof of continued use or renewal application, as applicable, is filed. These trademarks provide source identification for the goods manufactured and sold by the Company and allow the Company to achieve brand recognition within the industry. 

Internet Address/SEC Filings 

The Company&#8217;s Internet address is http://www.encorewire.com. Under the &#8220;Investors Info&#8221; section of our website, the Company provides a link to our electronic Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, director and officer beneficial ownership reports filed pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any amendments to these reports. All such reports are available free of charge and are available as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. 

The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 

