 Item 1. Business 

Glacier Bancorp, Inc. (&#8220;Company&#8221;), headquartered in Kalispell, Montana, is a Montana corporation incorporated in 2004 as a successor corporation to the Delaware corporation originally incorporated in 1990. The Company is a publicly-traded company and its common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol GBCI. The Company provides commercial banking services from 144 &#32;locations in Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah and Washington through its wholly-owned bank subsidiary, Glacier Bank (&#8220;Bank&#8221;). The Company offers a wide range of banking products and services, including transaction and savings deposits, real estate, commercial, agriculture, and consumer loans and mortgage origination services. The Company serves individuals, small to medium-sized businesses, community organizations and public entities. For information regarding the Company&#8217;s lending, investment and funding activities, see &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Subsidiaries 

The Company includes the parent holding company and nine wholly-owned subsidiaries which consist of the Bank and eight non-bank subsidiaries. The eight non-bank subsidiaries include GBCI Other Real Estate Owned (&#8220;GORE&#8221;) and seven trust subsidiaries. The Company formed GORE to isolate certain foreclosed properties for administrative purposes and the remaining properties are currently held for sale. GORE is included in the Bank operating segment due to its insignificant activity. The Company owns the following trust subsidiaries, each of which issued trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital instruments: Glacier Capital Trust II, Glacier Capital Trust III, Glacier Capital Trust IV, Citizens (ID) Statutory Trust I, Bank of the San Juans Bancorporation Trust I, First Company Statutory Trust 2001, and First Company Statutory Trust 2003. The trust subsidiaries are not included in the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company and its subsidiaries were not engaged in any operations in foreign countries. 

The Bank consists of thirteen bank divisions, a treasury division and an information technology division. The Bank divisions include the following: Glacier Bank, Kalispell; First Security Bank of Missoula; Valley Bank of Helena; Big Sky Western Bank, Bozeman; Western Security Bank, Billings; and First Bank of Montana, Lewistown, all operating in Montana; as well as Mountain West Bank, Coeur d&#8217;Alene operating in Idaho, Utah and Washington; Citizens Community Bank, Pocatello, operating in Idaho; 1st Bank, Evanston, operating in Wyoming and Utah; First Bank of Wyoming, Powell and First State Bank, Wheatland, each operating in Wyoming; North Cascades Bank, Chelan, operating in Washington; and Bank of the San Juans, Durango, operating in Colorado. The treasury division includes the Bank&#8217;s investment portfolio and wholesale borrowings and the information technology division includes the Bank&#8217;s internal data processing and information technology expenses. Each of the Bank divisions operate under separate names, management teams and directors. The Company considers the Bank to be its sole operating segment. 

The Company provides full service brokerage services (selling products such as stocks, bonds, mutual funds, limited partnerships, annuities and other insurance products) through Raymond James Financial Services, a non-affiliated company. The Company shares in the commissions generated, without devoting significant employee time to this portion of the business. 

Recent Acquisitions 

The Company&#8217;s strategy is to profitably grow its business through internal growth and selective acquisitions. The Company continues to look for profitable expansion opportunities in existing markets and new markets in the Rocky Mountain states. During the last five years, the Company has completed the following acquisitions: 

&#8226; 

Ca&#241;on Bank Corporation and its subsidiary, Ca&#241;on National Bank, on October 31, 2015 (collectively, &#8220;Ca&#241;on&#8221;); 

&#8226; 

Montana Community Banks, Inc. and its subsidiary, Community Bank, on February 28, 2015 (collectively, &#8220;CB&#8221;); 

&#8226; 

FNBR Holding Corporation and its subsidiary, First National Bank of the Rockies, on August 31, 2014 (collectively, &#8220;FNBR&#8221;); 

&#8226; 

North Cascades Bancshares, Inc. and its subsidiary, North Cascades National Bank, on July 31, 2013; and 

&#8226; 

Wheatland Bankshares, Inc. and its subsidiary, First State Bank, on May 31, 2013. 

Market Area 

The Company and the Bank have 144 &#32;locations, of which 9 &#32;are loan or administration offices, in 48 &#32;counties within 6 states including Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, and Washington. The Company and the Bank have 59 &#32;locations in Montana, 28 &#32;locations in Idaho, 17 &#32;locations in Wyoming, 23 &#32;locations in Colorado, 4 &#32;locations in Utah and 13 &#32;locations in Washington. 

The market area&#8217;s economic base primarily focuses on tourism, construction, mining, energy, manufacturing, agriculture, service industry, and health care. The tourism industry is highly influenced by national parks, ski resorts, significant lakes and rural scenic areas. 

Competition 

Commercial banking is a highly competitive business and operates in a rapidly changing environment. There are a large number of depository institutions including savings and loans, commercial banks, and credit unions in the markets in which the Company has offices. Competition is also increasing for deposit and lending services from internet-based competitors. Non-depository financial service institutions, primarily in the securities, insurance and retail industries, have also become competitors for retail savings, investment funds and lending activities. In addition to offering competitive interest rates, the principal methods used by the Bank to attract deposits include the offering of a variety of services including on-line banking, mobile banking and convenient office locations and business hours. The primary factors in competing for loans are interest rates and rate adjustment provisions, loan maturities, loan fees, and the quality of service to borrowers and brokers. 

Based on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;) summary of deposits survey as of June 30, 2015, the Bank has approximately 24 percent &#32;of the total FDIC insured deposits in the 13 &#32;counties that it services in Montana. In Idaho, the Bank has approximately 7 percent &#32;of the deposits in the 9 &#32;counties that it services. In Wyoming, the Bank has 26 percent &#32;of the deposits in the 8 &#32;counties it services. In Colorado, the Bank has 5 percent &#32;of the deposits in the 9 &#32;counties it services. In Utah, the Bank has 11 percent &#32;of the deposits in the 3 &#32;counties it services. In Washington, the Bank has 4 percent &#32;of the deposits in the 6 &#32;counties it services. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , the Company and the Bank employed 2,245 &#32;persons, 2,021 &#32;of whom were employed full time and none of whom were represented by a collective bargaining group. The Company and the Bank provide their employees with a comprehensive benefit program, including health, dental and vision insurance, life and accident insurance, long-term disability coverage, vacation and sick leave, 401(k) plan, profit sharing plan and a stock-based compensation plan. The Company considers its employee relations to be excellent. See Note 13 in the Consolidated Financial Statements in &#8220;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; for detailed information regarding employee benefit plans and eligibility requirements. 

Board of Directors and Committees 

The Company&#8217;s Board of Directors (&#8220;Board&#8221;) has the ultimate authority and responsibility for overseeing risk management at the Company. Some aspects of risk oversight are fulfilled at the Board level, and the Board delegates other aspects of its risk oversight function to its committees. The Board has established, among others, an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, a Compliance Committee, and a Risk Oversight Committee. Additional information regarding Board committees is set forth under the heading &#8220;Meetings and Committees of the Board of Directors - Committee Membership&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s 2016 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Website Access 

Copies of the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through the Company&#8217;s website (www.glacierbancorp.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed the material with, or furnished it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Copies can also be obtained by accessing the SEC&#8217;s website (www.sec.gov). 

Supervision and Regulation 

The following discussion provides an overview of certain elements of the extensive regulatory framework applicable to the Company and the Bank. This regulatory framework is primarily designed for the protection of depositors, the DIF and the banking system as a whole, rather than specifically for the protection of shareholders. Due to the breadth and growth of this regulatory framework, the costs of compliance continue to increase in order to monitor and satisfy these requirements. 

To the extent this section describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it does not purport to be complete and is qualified by reference to those provisions. These statutes and regulations, as well as related policies, continue to be subject to change by Congress, state legislatures and federal and state regulators. Changes in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company, including the interpretation or implementation thereof cannot be predicted and could have a material effect on the Company&#8217;s business or operations. Numerous changes to the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company have been made or proposed in recent years. Continued efforts to monitor and comply with new regulatory requirements add to the complexity and cost of the Company&#8217;s business. 

The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve and regulation by the State of Montana as a Montana corporation. The Company is also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Montana Department of Administration's Banking and Financial Institutions Division, the FDIC, and, with respect to branches of the Bank outside of Montana, applicable state regulators. 

Federal Bank Holding Company Regulation 

General. &#32;&#32;The Company is a bank holding company as defined in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (&#8220;BHCA&#8221;), due to its ownership of the Bank. As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve. In general, the BHCA limits the business of bank holding companies to owning or controlling banks and engaging in other activities closely related to banking. The Company must also file reports with and provide additional information to the Federal Reserve. 

Holding Company Bank Ownership. &#32;&#32;The BHCA requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before 1) acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of any voting shares of another bank or bank holding company if, after such acquisition, it would own or control more than 5 percent of such shares; 2) acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of another bank or bank holding company; or 3) merging or consolidating with another bank holding company. 

Holding Company Control of Non-banks . With some exceptions, the BHCA also prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring or retaining direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any company that is not a bank or bank holding company, or from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or providing services for its subsidiaries. The principal exceptions to these prohibitions involve certain non-bank activities that, by federal statute, agency regulation or order, have been identified as activities closely related to the business of banking or of managing or controlling banks. 

Transactions with Affiliates . Bank subsidiaries of a bank holding company are subject to restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Act on extensions of credit to the holding company or its subsidiaries, on investments in securities, and on the use of securities as collateral for loans to any borrower. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) further extended the definition of an &#8220;affiliate&#8221; and treats credit exposure arising from derivative transactions, securities lending and borrowing transactions as a covered transaction under the regulations. It also expands the scope of covered transactions required to be collateralized, requires collateral to be maintained at all times for covered transactions required to be collateralized, and places limits on acceptable collateral. These regulations and restrictions may limit the Company&#8217;s ability to obtain funds from the Bank for its cash needs, including funds for payment of dividends, interest and operational expenses. 

Tying Arrangements . The Company is prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, sale or lease of property or furnishing of services. For example, with certain exceptions, neither the Company nor the Bank may condition an extension of credit to a customer on either 1) a requirement that the customer obtain additional services provided by the Company or the Bank or 2) an agreement by the customer to refrain from obtaining other services from a competitor. 

Support of Bank Subsidiaries . Under Federal Reserve policy and the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to the Bank. This means that the Company is required to commit, as necessary, capital and resources to support the Bank. Any capital loans a bank holding company makes to its bank subsidiaries are subordinate to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of the bank subsidiaries. 

State Law Restrictions. &#32;&#32;As a Montana corporation, the Company is subject to certain limitations and restrictions under applicable Montana corporate law. For example, state law restrictions in Montana include limitations and restrictions relating to indemnification of directors, distributions to shareholders, transactions involving directors, officers or interested shareholders, maintenance of books, records and minutes, and observance of certain corporate formalities. 

Federal and State Regulation of the Bank 

General . Deposits in the Bank, a Montana state-chartered bank with branches in Montana, Colorado, Idaho, Utah, Washington and Wyoming, are insured by the FDIC. The Bank is subject to primary supervision, periodic examination and regulation of the FDIC and the Montana Department of Administration's Banking and Financial Institutions Division as the Bank&#8217;s primary regulators. These agencies have the authority to prohibit the Bank from engaging in what they believe constitute unsafe or unsound banking practices. The federal laws that apply to the Bank regulate, among other things, the scope of its business, its investments, its reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds, and the nature, amount of, and collateral for loans. Federal laws also regulate community reinvestment and insider credit transactions and impose safety and soundness standards. 

Consumer Protection . Although the Bank is not supervised directly by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;), its consumer banking activities are subject to regulation by the CFPB. The Bank is subject to a variety of federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations that govern its relationship with consumers including laws and regulations that impose certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which the Bank takes deposits, make and collect loans, and provide other services. In recent years, examination and enforcement by state and federal banking agencies for non-compliance with consumer protection laws and their implementing regulations have increased and become more intense. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may subject the Bank to various penalties, including but not limited to, enforcement actions, injunctions, fines, civil liability, criminal penalties, punitive damages, and the loss of certain contractual rights. 

Community Reinvestment . The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) requires that, in connection with examinations of financial institutions within their jurisdiction, federal bank regulators must evaluate the record of financial institutions in meeting the credit needs of its local communities, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of those banks. A bank&#8217;s community reinvestment record is also considered by the applicable banking agencies in evaluating mergers, acquisitions, and applications to open a branch or facility. 

Insider Credit Transactions . Banks are also subject to certain restrictions on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, principal shareholders, and their related interests. Extensions of credit 1) must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are at least as stringent, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with persons not related to the lending bank; and 2) must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Banks are also subject to certain lending limits and restrictions on overdrafts to insiders. A violation of these restrictions may result in the assessment of substantial civil monetary penalties, regulatory enforcement actions, and other regulatory sanctions. The Dodd-Frank Act and federal regulations place additional restrictions on loans to insiders, and generally prohibits loans to senior officers other than for certain specified purposes. 

Regulation of Management . Federal law 1) sets forth circumstances under which officers or directors of a bank may be removed by the institution&#8217;s federal supervisory agency; 2) places restraints on lending by a bank to its executive officers, directors, principal shareholders, and their related interests; and 3) generally prohibits management personnel of a bank from serving as directors or in other management positions of another financial institution whose assets exceed a specified amount or which has an office within a specified geographic area. 

Safety and Soundness Standards . Certain non-capital safety and soundness standards are also imposed upon banks. These standards cover, among other things, internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits, such other operational and managerial standards as the agency determines to be appropriate, and standards for asset quality, earnings and stock valuation. Each insured depository institution must implement a comprehensive written information security program that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to the institution&#8217;s size and complexity and the nature and scope of its activities. The information security program must be designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information and ensure the proper disposal of customer and consumer information. An institution that fails to meet these standards may be required to submit a compliance plan, or submit to regulatory sanctions. 

Interstate Banking and Branching 

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (&#8220;Interstate Act&#8221;) together with the Dodd-Frank Act, relaxed prior interstate branching restrictions under federal law by permitting, subject to regulatory approval, state and federally chartered commercial banks to establish branches in states where the laws permit banks chartered in such states to establish branches. The Interstate Act requires regulators to consult with community organizations before permitting an interstate institution to close a branch in a low-income area. Federal bank regulations prohibit banks from using their interstate branches primarily for deposit production and federal bank regulatory agencies have implemented a loan-to-deposit ratio screen to ensure compliance with this prohibition. 

Dividends 

A principal source of the Company&#8217;s cash is from dividends received from the Bank, which are subject to government regulation and limitation on the Bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends. Regulatory authorities may prohibit banks and bank holding companies from paying dividends in a manner that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. In addition, a bank may not pay cash dividends if that payment could reduce the amount of its capital below that necessary to meet minimum applicable regulatory capital requirements. The Bank is subject to Montana state law and cannot declare a dividend greater than the previous two years' net earnings without providing notice to the state regulators. Additionally, current guidance from the Federal Reserve provides, among other things, that dividends per share on the Company&#8217;s common stock generally should not exceed earnings per share, measured over the previous four fiscal quarters. The third installment of the Basel Accords (&#8220;Basel III&#8221;) introduces additional limitations on a bank&#8217;s ability to issue dividends by requiring banks to maintain a common equity conservation buffer of at least an additional 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets over the minimum required capital ratio to avoid restrictions on dividends, redemptions and executive bonus payments. The Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies which expresses the view that although no specific regulations restrict dividend payments by bank holding companies other than state corporate laws, a bank holding company should not pay cash dividends unless the company&#8217;s earnings for the past year are sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a prospective rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the bank holding company&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. 

Capital Adequacy 

Regulatory Capital Guidelines . Federal bank regulatory agencies use capital adequacy guidelines in the examination and regulation of bank holding companies and banks. The guidelines are &#8220;risk-based,&#8221; meaning that they are designed to make capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies. On July 2, 2013, the federal banking agencies implemented the final rules (&#8220;Final Rules&#8221;) that substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The phase-in period for the Final Rules began for the Bank on January 1, 2015, with full compliance with the Final Rules phased in by January 1, 2019. 

Effective January 1, 2015, Basel III: 

&#8226; 

creates &#8220;Tier 1 Common Equity,&#8221; a new measure of regulatory capital closer to pure tangible common equity than the present Tier 1 definition; 

&#8226; 

establishes a required minimum risk-based capital ratio for Tier 1 Common Equity at 4.5 percent and adds a 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer; 

&#8226; 

increases the required Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio to 6.0 percent and the required Total risk-based capital ratio to 8.0 percent; 

&#8226; 

increases the required leverage ratio to 4 percent; and 

&#8226; 

allows for permanent grandfathering of non-qualifying instruments, such as trust preferred securities, issued prior to May 19, 2010 for depository institution holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets as of year end 2009, subject to a limit of 25 percent of Tier 1 capital. 

The new capital rules require the Bank to meet the capital conservation buffer requirement by 2019 in order to avoid constraints on capital distributions, such as dividends and equity repurchases, and certain bonus compensation for executive officers. These new capital rules also change the risk-weights of certain assets for purposes of the risk-based capital ratios and phases out certain instruments as qualifying capital. The Final Rules also contain revisions to the prompt corrective action framework, which is designed to place restrictions on insured depository institutions, including the Bank, if their capital levels begin to show signs of weakness. Under the prompt corrective action requirements, which are designed to complement the capital conservation buffer, insured depository institutions will be required to meet the following increased capital level requirements in order to qualify as &#8220;well-capitalized:&#8221; (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8%; (iii) a total capital ratio of 10%; and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5%. 

The application of the Final Rules may result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital or require regulatory action if the Bank were unable to comply with such requirements. In addition, management may be required to modify its business strategy due to the changes to the asset risk-weights for risk-based capital calculations and the requirement to meet the capital conservation buffers. The imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with Basel III could also cause the Bank to increase its holdings of liquid assets, change its business strategy, and make other changes to the terms of its funding. Management believes that, as of December 31, 2015, the Company would meet all capital adequacy requirements under the Basel III capital rules on a fully phased-in basis as if all such requirements were currently in effect. 

Regulatory Oversight and Examination 

The Federal Reserve conducts periodic inspections of bank holding companies. The supervisory objectives of the inspection program are to ascertain whether the financial strength of a bank holding company is maintained on an ongoing basis and to determine the effects or consequences of transactions between a bank holding company or its non-banking subsidiaries and its bank subsidiaries. For bank holding companies under $10 billion in assets, the inspection type and frequency varies depending on asset size, complexity of the organization, and the bank holding company&#8217;s rating at its last inspection. 

Banks are subject to periodic examinations by their primary regulators. Bank examinations have evolved from reliance on transaction testing in assessing a bank&#8217;s condition to a risk-focused approach. These examinations are extensive and cover the entire breadth of operations of a bank. Generally, safety and soundness examinations occur on an 18-month cycle for banks under $500 million in total assets that are well capitalized and without regulatory issues, and 12-months otherwise. Examinations alternate between the federal and state bank regulatory agency or may occur on a combined schedule. The frequency of consumer compliance and CRA examinations is linked to the size of the institution and its compliance and CRA ratings at its most recent examinations. However, the examination authority of the Federal Reserve and the FDIC allows them to examine supervised banks as frequently as deemed necessary based on the condition of the bank or as a result of certain triggering events. 

On December 18, 2015, the federal banking regulators issued guidance reminding financial institutions to re&#8209;examine existing regulations regarding concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The banking regulators are directed to examine each bank&#8217;s exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and to focus their supervisory resources on institutions that may have significant commercial real estate loan concentration risk. The guidance provides that the strength of an institution&#8217;s lending and risk management practices with respect to such concentrations will be taken into account in evaluating capital adequacy and does not specifically limit a bank&#8217;s commercial real estate lending to a specified concentration level. 

Corporate Governance and Accounting 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 . The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (&#8220;SOX Act&#8221;) addresses, among other things, corporate governance, auditing and accounting, enhanced and timely disclosure of corporate information, and penalties for non-compliance. Generally, the SOX Act 1) requires chief executive officers and chief financial officers to certify to the accuracy of periodic reports filed with the SEC; 2) imposes specific and enhanced corporate disclosure requirements; 3) accelerates the time frame for reporting of insider transactions and periodic disclosures by public companies; 4) requires companies to adopt and disclose information about corporate governance practices, including whether or not they have adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers and whether the audit committee includes at least one &#8220;audit committee financial expert;&#8221; and 5) requires the SEC, based on certain enumerated factors, to regularly and systematically review corporate filings. 

As a publicly reporting company, the Company is subject to the requirements of the SOX Act and related rules and regulations issued by the SEC and NASDAQ. After enactment, the Company updated its policies and procedures to comply with the SOX Act&#8217;s requirements and has found that such compliance, including compliance with Section 404 relating to the Company&#8217;s internal control over financial reporting, has resulted in significant additional expense for the Company. The Company will continue to incur additional expense in its ongoing compliance. 

Anti-Terrorism 

USA Patriot Act of 2001 . The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (&#8220;Patriot Act&#8221;), intended to combat terrorism, was renewed with certain amendments in 2006. The Patriot Act, in relevant part, 1) prohibits banks from providing correspondent accounts directly to foreign shell banks; 2) imposes due diligence requirements on banks opening or holding accounts for foreign financial institutions or wealthy foreign individuals; 3) requires financial institutions to establish an anti-money-laundering compliance program; and 4) eliminates civil liability for persons who file suspicious activity reports. The Patriot Act also includes provisions providing the government with power to investigate terrorism, including expanded government access to bank account records. Bank regulators are directed to consider a holding company&#8217;s and bank&#8217;s effectiveness in combating money laundering when ruling on BHCA and Bank Merger Act applications. The Company and the Bank have established compliance programs designed to comply with the Patriot Act requirements. 

Financial Services Modernization 

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 . The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (&#8220;GLB Act&#8221;) brought about significant changes to the laws affecting banks and bank holding companies. Generally, the GLB Act 1) repeals historical restrictions on preventing banks from affiliating with securities firms; 2) provides a uniform framework for the activities of banks, savings institutions and their holding companies; 3) broadens the activities that may be conducted by national banks and banking subsidiaries of bank holding companies; 4) provides an enhanced framework for protecting the privacy of consumer information and requires notification to consumers of bank privacy policies; and 5) addresses a variety of other legal and regulatory issues affecting both day-to-day operations and long-term activities of financial institutions. The Bank is subject to FDIC regulations implementing the privacy protection provisions of the GLB Act. These regulations require banks to disclose their privacy policy, including informing consumers of their information sharing practices and informing consumers of their rights to opt out of certain practices. 

Deposit Insurance 

The Bank's deposits are insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, up to the maximum applicable limits and are subject to deposit insurance assessments by the FDIC designed to tie what banks pay for deposit insurance to the risks they pose. The Dodd-Frank Act redefined the assessment base used for calculating FDIC deposit insurance assessments by requiring the FDIC to determine deposit insurance assessments based on assets instead of deposits. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity capital of a financial institution. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act raised the minimum designated reserve ratio (the FDIC is required to set the reserve ratio each year) of the DIF from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent; requires that the DIF reserve ratio meet 1.35 percent by 2020; and eliminates the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to insured depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. In October 2015, the FDIC stated that it would offset the effect of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion by imposing a surcharge on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. No institution may pay a dividend if it is in default on its federal deposit insurance assessment. The FDIC may also prohibit any insured institution from engaging in any activity determined by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the DIF. 

The FDIC may terminate the deposit insurance of any insured depository institution if it determines after a hearing that the institution has engaged or is engaging in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, order or any condition imposed by an agreement with the FDIC. Management is not aware of any existing circumstances which would result in termination of the deposit insurance of the Bank. 

Insurance of Deposit Accounts . The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. The FDIC insurance coverage limit applies per depositor, per insured depository institution for each account ownership category. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and is affecting the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and the bank holding companies, including the Company and the Bank. Some of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that may impact the Company's business are summarized below. 

Corporate Governance. &#32;&#32;The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to provide their shareholders with 1) a non-binding shareholder vote on executive compensation; 2) a non-binding shareholder vote on the frequency of such vote; 3) disclosure of &#8220;golden parachute&#8221; arrangements in connection with specified change in control transactions; and 4) a non-binding shareholder vote on golden parachute arrangements in connection with these change in control transactions. Effective August 5, 2015, the SEC adopted a rule mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act that requires a public company to disclose the ratio of the compensation of its Chief Executive Officer (&#8220;CEO&#8221;) to the median compensation of its employees. This rule is intended to provide shareholders with information that they can use to evaluate a CEO&#8217;s compensation. Companies will be required to provide disclosure of their pay ratios for their first fiscal year beginning on or after January 1, 2017. 

Prohibition Against Charter Conversions of Financial Institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act generally prohibits a depository institution from converting from a state to federal charter, or vice versa, while it is the subject to an enforcement action unless the depository institution seeks prior approval from its primary regulator and complies with specified procedures to ensure compliance with the enforcement action. 

Repeal of Demand Deposit Interest Prohibition. The Dodd-Frank Act repeals the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts. 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. &#32;The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB and empowered it to exercise broad rulemaking, supervision and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws. The Bank is subject to consumer protection regulations issued by the CFPB, but as a financial institution with assets of less than $10 billion, the Bank is generally not subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB. The CFPB has issued and continues to issue numerous regulations under which the Company will continue to incur additional expense in its ongoing compliance with CFPB regulations. Significant recent CFPB developments that may affect the Bank&#8217;s operations and compliance costs include: 

&#8226; 

The issuance of proposals to ban consumer finance companies from including arbitration clauses that block class action lawsuits in their consumer contracts. The proposals under consideration would require that companies that choose to use arbitration clauses for individual disputes submit to the CFPB the arbitration claims filed and awards issued. The current proposals would apply to credit cards, checking and deposit accounts, prepaid cards, money transfer services, certain auto loans and installment loans. 

&#8226; 

Positions taken by the CFPB on fair lending, including applying the disparate impact theory which could make it more difficult for lenders to charge different rates or apply different terms to loans to different customers. 

&#8226; 

The issuance of a final rule amending Regulation C, which implements the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (&#8220;HMDA&#8221;), requiring most lenders to report expanded information in order for the CFPB to more effectively monitor fair lending concerns and other information shortcomings identified by the CFPB. 

&#8226; 

Positions taken by the CFPB regarding the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E, which require companies to obtain consumer authorizations before automatically debiting a consumer&#8217;s account for pre-authorized electronic funds transfers. 

&#8226; 

Actions taken to regulate and supervise credit bureaus and debt collections. 

Proposed Legislation 

The economic and political environment of the past several years has led to a number of proposed legislative, governmental and regulatory initiatives that may significantly impact the banking industry. Other regulatory initiatives by federal and state banking agencies may also significantly impact the Bank&#8217;s business. The Bank cannot predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted or the ultimate impact of any such initiatives on its operations, competitive situation, financial conditions, or results of operations. 

Effects of Federal Government Monetary Policy 

The Company&#8217;s earnings and growth are affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, particularly the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve implements national monetary policy for such purposes of promoting maximum employment, stable prices and moderate long-term interest rates. Through its open market operations in U.S. government securities, control of the discount rate applicable to borrowings from the Federal Reserve, establishment of reserve requirements against certain deposits, and control of the rate of interest applicable to excess reserve balances and reverse repurchase agreements, the Federal Reserve influences the availability and cost of money and credit, and ultimately, a range of economic variables including employment, output, and prices of goods and services. The nature and impact of future changes in monetary policies and their impact on the Company or the Bank cannot be predicted with certainty. 

