 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

General 

Associated Banc-Corp (individually referred to herein as the &#8220;Parent Company&#8221; and together with all of its subsidiaries and affiliates, collectively referred to herein as the &#8220;Corporation,&#8221; &#8220;Associated,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;) is a bank holding company registered pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#8220;BHC Act&#8221;). Our bank subsidiary, Associated Bank, National Association (&#8220;Associated Bank&#8221; or the &#8220;Bank&#8221;) traces its history back to the founding of the Bank of Neenah in 1861. We were incorporated in Wisconsin in 1964 and were inactive until 1969 when permission was received from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#8220;Federal Reserve&#8221;) to acquire three banks. At December 31, 2015, we owned one nationally chartered commercial bank headquartered in Green Bay, Wisconsin which serves local communities across the upper Midwest, one nationally chartered trust company headquartered in Wisconsin, and 10 limited purpose banking and nonbanking subsidiaries either located in or conducting business primarily in our three-state footprint that are closely related or incidental to the business of banking or financial in nature. Measured by total assets reported at December 31, 2015, we are the largest commercial bank holding company headquartered in Wisconsin and one of the top 50, publicly traded, bank holding companies headquartered in the U.S. 

Services 

Through Associated Bank and various nonbanking subsidiaries, we provide a broad array of banking and nonbanking products and services to individuals and businesses through over 200 banking offices serving more than 100 communities, primarily within our three state branch footprint (Wisconsin, Illinois, and Minnesota). Our business is primarily relationship-driven and is organized into three reportable segments: Corporate and Commercial Specialty; Community, Consumer, and Business; and Risk Management 

and Shared Services. See Note 21, &#8220;Segment Reporting,&#8221; of the notes to consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,&#8221; for additional information concerning our reportable segments. 

Corporate and Commercial Specialty &#8212; &#32;The Corporate and Commercial Specialty segment serves a wide range of customers, including larger businesses, developers, not-for-profits, municipalities, and financial institutions. In serving this segment, we compete based on an in-depth understanding of our customers&#8217; financial needs, the ability to match market competitive solutions to those needs, and the highest standards of relationship and service excellence in the delivery of these services. Delivery of services is provided through our corporate and commercial units, our commercial real estate unit, as well as our specialized industries and commercial financial services units. Within this segment we provide the following products and services: (1) lending solutions, such as commercial loans and lines of credit, commercial real estate financing, construction loans, letters of credit, leasing, asset based lending and, for our larger clients, loan syndications; (2) deposit and cash management solutions such as commercial checking and interest-bearing deposit products, cash vault and night depository services, liquidity solutions, payables and receivables solutions, and information services; and (3) specialized financial services such as interest rate risk management, foreign exchange solutions, and commodity hedging. 

Community, Consumer, and Business &#8212; The Community, Consumer, and Business segment serves individuals, as well as small and mid-size businesses. In serving this segment, we compete based on providing a broad range of solutions to meet the needs of our customers in their entire financial lifecycle, convenient access to our services through multiple channels such as branches, phone based services, online and mobile banking, and a relationship based business model which assists our customers in navigating any changes and challenges in their financial circumstances. Delivery of services is provided through our various Consumer Banking, Community Banking, and Private Client units. Within this segment we provide the following products and services: (1) lending solutions such as residential mortgages, home equity loans and lines of credit, personal and installment loans, real estate financing, business loans, and business lines of credit; (2) deposit and transactional solutions such as checking, credit, debit and pre-paid cards, online banking and bill pay, and money transfer services; (3) investable funds solutions such as savings, money market deposit accounts, IRA accounts, certificates of deposit, fixed and variable annuities, full-service, discount and on-line investment brokerage; investment advisory services; trust and investment management accounts; (4) insurance and benefits-related products and services; and (5) fiduciary services such as administration of pension, profit-sharing and other employee benefit plans, fiduciary and corporate agency services, and institutional asset management. 

Risk Management and Shared Services &#8212; The Risk Management and Shared Services segment includes Corporate Risk Management, Credit Administration, Finance, Treasury, Operations and Technology, which are key shared functions. The segment also includes Parent Company activity, intersegment eliminations and residual revenue and expenses, representing the difference between actual amounts incurred and the amounts allocated to operating segments, including interest rate risk residuals (funds transfer pricing mismatches) and credit risk and provision residuals (long-term credit charge mismatches). The earning assets within this segment include the Corporation&#8217;s investment portfolio, and capital includes both allocated and any remaining unallocated capital. 

We are not dependent upon a single or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on us. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we had 4,383 full-time equivalent employees. None of our employees are represented by unions. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive. We compete for loans, deposits, and financial services in all of our principal markets. We compete directly with other bank and nonbank institutions located within our markets, internet-based banks, out-of-market banks and bank holding companies that advertise or otherwise serve our markets, money market and other mutual funds, brokerage houses, and various other financial institutions. Additionally, we compete with insurance companies, leasing companies, regulated small loan companies, credit unions, governmental agencies, and commercial entities offering financial services products. Competition involves efforts to retain current customers and to obtain new loans and deposits, the scope and type of services offered, interest rates paid on deposits and charged on loans, as well as other aspects of banking. We also face direct competition from subsidiaries of bank holding companies that have far greater assets and resources than ours. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Overview 

The Corporation and its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and oversight both at the federal and state levels. The following is an overview of the statutory and regulatory framework that affects the business of the Corporation and our subsidiaries. 

Bank Holding Company Act Requirements 

As a registered bank holding company under the BHC Act, we are regulated, supervised, and examined by the Federal Reserve. In connection with applicable requirements, bank holding companies file periodic reports and other information with the Federal Reserve. The BHC Act also governs the activities that are permissible for bank holding companies and their affiliates and permits the Federal Reserve, in certain circumstances, to issue cease and desist orders and other enforcement actions against bank holding companies and their nonbanking affiliates to correct and curtail unsafe or unsound banking practices. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) and longstanding Federal Reserve policy, bank holding companies are required to act as a source of financial strength to each of their banking subsidiaries pursuant to which such holding company may be required to commit financial resources to support such subsidiaries in circumstances when, absent such requirements, they might not otherwise do. The BHC Act further regulates holding company activities, including requirements and limitations relating to capital, transactions with officers, directors and affiliates, securities issuances, dividend payments, inter-affiliate liabilities, extensions of credit, and expansion through mergers and acquisitions. 

The BHC Act allows certain qualifying bank holding companies that elect treatment as &#8220;financial holding companies&#8221; to engage in activities that are financial in nature and that explicitly include the underwriting and sale of insurance. The Parent Company thus far has not elected to be treated as a financial holding company. Bank holding companies that have not elected such treatment generally must limit their activities to banking activities and activities that are closely related to banking. 

The Dodd-Frank Act 

The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;); provided for new capital standards that eliminate the treatment of trust preferred securities as Tier 1 regulatory capital; required that deposit insurance assessments be calculated based on an insured depository institution&#8217;s assets rather than its insured deposits; raised the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (the balance in the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) divided by estimated insured deposits) to 1.35%; established a comprehensive regulatory regime for the derivatives activities of financial institutions; prohibited banking entities, after a transition period, from engaging in certain types of proprietary trading, as well as having investments in, sponsoring, and maintaining certain types of relationships with hedge funds and private equity funds (through provisions commonly referred to as the &#8220;Volcker Rule&#8221;); placed limitations on the interchange fees charged for debit card transactions; and established new minimum mortgage underwriting standards for residential mortgages. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#8220;FDIC&#8221;) has backup enforcement authority over a depository institution holding company, such as the Parent Company, if the conduct or threatened conduct of such holding company poses a risk to the DIF, although such authority may not be used if the holding company is generally in sound condition and does not pose a foreseeable and material risk to the DIF. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on the Corporation&#8217;s and the Bank&#8217;s operations, particularly through increased compliance costs resulting from possible future consumer and fair lending regulations. See the &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; section for a more extensive discussion of this topic. 

Regulation of Associated Bank and Trust Company 

Associated Bank and our nationally chartered trust company subsidiary are regulated, supervised and examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the &#8220;OCC&#8221;). The OCC has primary supervisory and regulatory authority over the operations of the Corporation&#8217;s national bank and trust company subsidiaries. As part of this authority, the national bank and trust company subsidiaries are required to file periodic reports with the OCC and are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC. Associated Bank, our only subsidiary that accepts insured deposits, is also subject to examination by the FDIC. We are subject to the enforcement and rule-making authority of the CFPB regarding consumer financial products. The CFPB has authority to create and enforce consumer protection rules and regulations and has the power to examine us for compliance with such rules and regulations. The CFPB also has the authority to prohibit &#8220;unfair, deceptive or abusive&#8221; acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets, such as Associated Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act weakens the federal preemption available for national banks and gives broader rights to state attorneys general to enforce certain federal consumer protection laws. 

Banking Acquisitions 

We are required to obtain prior Federal Reserve approval before acquiring more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of a bank holding company, bank or savings association. In addition, the prior approval of the OCC is required for a national bank to merge with another bank or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of another bank. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, the public benefits expected to be received from the acquisition, the projected capital ratios and levels on a post-acquisition basis, and the acquiring institution&#8217;s record of addressing the credit needs of the communities it serves, including the needs of low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank, under the Community Reinvestment Act. See the "Risk Factors" section for a more extensive discussion of this topic. 

Banking Subsidiary Dividends 

The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. A substantial portion of our revenue comes from dividends paid to us by Associated Bank. The OCC&#8217;s prior approval of the payment of dividends by Associated Bank to the Parent Company is required only if the total of all dividends declared by the Bank in any calendar year exceeds the sum of the Bank&#8217;s net profits for that year and its retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to surplus. Federal law also prohibits national banks from paying dividends that would be greater than the bank&#8217;s undivided profits after deducting statutory bad debt in excess of the bank&#8217;s allowance for loan losses. 

Holding Company Dividends 

In addition, we and our banking subsidiary are subject to various general regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums. The appropriate federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or bank holding company that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. The appropriate federal regulatory authorities have indicated that paying dividends that deplete a bank&#8217;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice and that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. 

Capital and Stress Testing Requirements 

Capital Requirements 

We are subject to various regulatory capital requirements both at the Parent Company and at the Bank level administered by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action (described below), we must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of our assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting policies. Our capital amounts and classification are also subject to judgments by the regulators regarding qualitative components, risk weightings, and other factors. We have consistently maintained regulatory capital ratios at or above the well capitalized standards. 

In July 2013, the Federal Reserve and the OCC issued final rules establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. These rules implemented certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and a separate international framework established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision for the regulation of capital and liquidity, generally referred to as &#8220;Basel III.&#8221; The final rules seek to strengthen the components of regulatory capital, increase risk-based capital requirements, and make selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. The final rules, among other things: 

&#8226; 

revise minimum capital requirements and adjust prompt corrective action thresholds; 

&#8226; 

revise the components of regulatory capital and create a new capital measure called &#8220;Common Equity Tier 1,&#8221; which must constitute at least 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; 

specify that Tier 1 capital consists only of Common Equity Tier 1 and certain &#8220;Additional Tier 1 Capital&#8221; instruments meeting specified requirements; 

&#8226; 

apply most deductions / adjustments to regulatory capital measures to Common Equity Tier 1 and not to other components of capital, potentially requiring higher levels of Common Equity Tier 1 in order to meet minimum ratio requirements; 

&#8226; 

increase the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement from 4% to 6%; 

&#8226; 

retain the existing risk-based capital treatment for 1-4 family residential mortgage exposures; 

&#8226; 

permit most banking organizations, including the Parent Company, to retain, through a one-time permanent election, the existing capital treatment for accumulated other comprehensive income; 

&#8226; 

implement a new capital conservation buffer of Common Equity Tier 1 capital equal to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets, which will be in addition to the 4.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio and be phased in over a three year period beginning January 1, 2016. This buffer is generally required to make capital distributions and pay executive bonuses. 

&#8226; 

increase capital requirements for past-due loans, high volatility commercial real estate exposures, and certain short-term loan commitments; 

&#8226; 

require the deduction of mortgage servicing assets and deferred tax assets that exceed 10% of Common Equity Tier 1 capital in each category and 15% of Common Equity Tier 1 capital in the aggregate; and 

&#8226; 

remove references to credit ratings consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act and establish due diligence requirements for securitization exposures. 

The final rules required that trust preferred securities were phased out from Tier 1 capital by the end of 2015, although for a banking organization, such as the Parent Company that has greater than $15 billion in total consolidated assets but is not an &#8220;advanced approaches banking organization,&#8221; the final rules permit inclusion of trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 in Tier 2 capital regardless of whether they would otherwise meet the qualifications for Tier 2 capital treatment. 

Under the final rules, compliance was required beginning January 1, 2015 for most banking organizations, including the Parent Company and Associated Bank, subject to a transition period for several aspects of the final rules, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer, and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions. Requirements to maintain higher levels of capital could adversely impact our return on equity. We believe we will continue to exceed all estimated well-capitalized regulatory requirements under these new rules on a fully phased-in basis. For further detail on capital and capital ratios see discussion under Part II, Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,&#8221; sections, &#8220;Liquidity&#8221; and &#8220;Capital,&#8221; and under Part II, Item 8, Note 19, &#8220;Regulatory Matters,&#8221; of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements 

On October 12, 2012, the federal bank regulatory agencies published final rules implementing the company-run stress test requirements mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act for U.S. bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $10 billion to $50 billion. Under the rules, we are required to conduct annual company-run stress tests using different scenarios (baseline, adverse and severely adverse) provided annually by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, the primary federal regulator for the Bank. The stress test is designed to assess the potential impact of different scenarios on earnings, losses and capital over a set time period, with consideration given to certain factors, including the organization&#8217;s condition, risks, exposures, strategies and activities. The banking agencies have issued guidance on stress testing for banking organizations with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets. This guidance outlines four &#8220;high-level&#8221; principles for stress testing practices that regulators expect banking organizations to include in their stress testing framework. In particular, the stress testing framework should (i) include activities and exercises that are tailored to and sufficiently capture the banking organization&#8217;s exposures, activities and risks, (ii) employ multiple conceptually sound stress testing activities and approaches, (iii) be forward-looking and flexible, and (iv) be clear, actionable, well-supported, and used in the decision-making process. 

Under the original stress-testing cycle in the final rules, banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $10 billion to $50 billion were required to conduct stress tests using data as of September 30, and report the results to their primary federal regulator and the Federal Reserve by March 31 of the following year. Banking organizations were required to subsequently publish a summary of the results between June 15 and June 30 of each year. We timely submitted our stress test report to the OCC and Federal Reserve before its required due date of March 31, 2015, and a summary of the results was publicly disclosed on June 15, 2015, as required by the final rules. 

Beginning in 2016, the dates of the stress-testing cycle have shifted. Banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $10 billion to $50 billion will be required to report the results of the stress test by July 31 of each year, using data as of December 31 of the preceding year, and subsequently publish a summary of the results between October 15 and October 31. We anticipate that our pro forma capital ratios, as reflected in the stress test calculations under the required stress test scenarios, will be an important factor considered by the Federal Reserve in evaluating whether proposed payments of dividends or stock repurchases are consistent with its prudential expectations. Requirements to maintain higher levels of capital or liquidity to address potential adverse stress scenarios could adversely impact our net income and our return on equity. 

Enforcement Powers of the Federal Banking Agencies; Prompt Corrective Action 

The Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the CFPB have extensive supervisory authority over their regulated institutions, including, among other things, the power to compel higher reserves, the ability to assess civil money penalties, the ability to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders and the ability to initiate injunctive actions. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated 

for violations of laws and regulations or for unsafe or unsound banking practices. Other actions or inactions by the Parent Company may provide the basis for enforcement action, including misleading or untimely reports. 

Federal banking regulators are authorized and, under certain circumstances, required to take certain actions against banks that fail to meet their capital requirements. The federal banking agencies have additional enforcement authority with respect to undercapitalized depository institutions. 

&#8220;Well capitalized&#8221; institutions may generally operate without supervisory restriction. With respect to &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; institutions, such banks cannot normally pay dividends or make any capital contributions that would leave it undercapitalized; they cannot pay a management fee to a controlling person if, after paying the fee, it would be undercapitalized; and they cannot accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless the bank has applied for and been granted a waiver by the FDIC. 

The federal banking agencies are required to take action to restrict the activities of an &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; insured depository institution. Any such bank must submit a capital restoration plan that is guaranteed by the parent holding company. Until such plan is approved, it may not increase its assets, acquire another institution, establish a branch or engage in any new activities, and generally may not make capital distributions. In certain situations, a federal banking agency may reclassify a well-capitalized institution as adequately capitalized and may require an adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution to comply with supervisory actions as if the institution were in the next lower category. 

Institutions must file a capital restoration plan with the OCC within 45 days of the date it receives a notice from the OCC that it is &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; Compliance with a capital restoration plan must be guaranteed by a parent holding company. In addition, the OCC is permitted to take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions, including but not limited to the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of senior executive officers and directors. 

Finally, bank regulatory agencies have the ability to impose higher than normal capital requirements known as individual minimum capital requirements for institutions with a high-risk profile. 

At December 31, 2015, the Bank satisfied the requirements as &#8220;well capitalized&#8221;. The imposition of any of the measures described above could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation and on its profitability and operations. The Corporation&#8217;s shareholders do not have preemptive rights and, therefore, if the Corporation is directed by the OCC or the FDIC to issue additional shares of common stock, such issuance may result in dilution in shareholders&#8217; percentage of ownership of the Corporation. 

Deposit Insurance Premiums 

Associated Bank is a member of the FDIC and pays an insurance premium to the FDIC based upon its assessment rates on a quarterly basis. Deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC and such insurance is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government. 

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a permanent increase in deposit insurance was authorized to $250,000 per depositor, per insured depository institution for each account ownership category. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also set a new minimum DIF reserve ratio at 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC is required to attain this ratio by September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act also required the FDIC to define the deposit insurance assessment base for an insured depository institution as an amount equal to the institution&#8217;s average consolidated total assets during the assessment period minus average tangible equity. The assessment rate schedule for larger institutions like Associated Bank (i.e., institutions with at least $10 billion in assets) differentiates between such large institutions by use of a &#8220;scorecard&#8221; that combines an institution&#8217;s CAMELS ratings with certain forward-looking financial information to measure the risk to the DIF. Pursuant to this &#8220;scorecard&#8221; method, two scores (a performance score and a loss severity score) will be combined and converted to an initial base assessment rate. The performance score measures an institution&#8217;s financial performance and ability to withstand stress. The loss severity score measures the relative magnitude of potential losses to the DIF in the event of the institution&#8217;s failure. Total scores are converted pursuant to a predetermined formula into an initial base assessment rate. Assessment rates range from 2.5 basis points to 45 basis points (&#8220;bp&#8221;) for large institutions. Premiums for Associated Bank are now calculated based upon the average balance of total assets minus average tangible equity as of the close of business for each day during the calendar quarter. 

The FDIC has the flexibility to adopt actual rates that are higher or lower than the total base assessment rates adopted without notice and comment, if certain conditions are met. 

DIF-insured institutions pay a Financing Corporation (&#8220;FICO&#8221;) assessment in order to fund the interest on bonds issued in the 1980s in connection with the failures in the thrift industry. The FICO assessment was computed on assets as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. These assessments will continue until the bonds mature in 2019. The Corporation&#8217;s combined assessment rate for FDIC and FICO assessments was approximately 11bp for 2015. 

The FDIC is authorized to conduct examinations of and require reporting by FDIC-insured institutions. It is also authorized to terminate a depository bank&#8217;s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the bank&#8217;s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank&#8217;s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for our national bank subsidiary would have a material adverse effect on our earnings, operations and financial condition. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The federal banking agencies have adopted the Interagency Guidelines for Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness. The Guidelines establish certain safety and soundness standards for all depository institutions. The operational and managerial standards in the Guidelines relate to the following: (1) internal controls and information systems; (2) internal audit systems; (3) loan documentation; (4) credit underwriting; (5) interest rate exposure; (6) asset growth; (7) compensation, fees and benefits; (8) asset quality; and (9) earnings. Rather than providing specific rules, the Guidelines set forth basic compliance considerations and guidance with respect to a depository institution. Failure to meet the standards in the Guidelines, however, could result in a request by the OCC to one of the nationally chartered banks to provide a written compliance plan to demonstrate its efforts to come into compliance with such Guidelines. Failure to provide a plan or to implement a provided plan requires the appropriate federal banking agency to issue an order to the institution requiring compliance. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Transactions between our national banking subsidiary and its related parties or any affiliate are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. An affiliate is any company or entity, which controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the bank. In a holding company context, at a minimum, the parent holding company of a national bank and any companies which are controlled by such parent holding company are affiliates of the bank. Generally, Sections 23A and 23B (i) limit the extent to which an institution or its subsidiaries may engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10% of such institution&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, and contain an aggregate limit on all such transactions with all affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of such capital stock and surplus, and (ii) require that all such transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable, to the institution or subsidiary as those provided to a nonaffiliate. The term &#8220;covered transaction&#8221; includes the making of loans, purchase of assets, issuance of a guarantee and similar types of transactions. Certain types of covered transactions must be collateralized according to a schedule set forth in the statute based on the type of collateral. 

Certain transactions with our directors, officers or controlling persons are also subject to conflicts of interest regulations. Among other things, these regulations require that loans to such persons and their related interests be made on terms substantially the same as for loans to unaffiliated individuals and must not create an abnormal risk of repayment or other unfavorable features for the financial institution. See Note 4, &#8220;Loans,&#8221; of the notes to consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,&#8221; for additional information on loans to related parties. 

Community Reinvestment Act Requirements 

Our national bank subsidiary, Associated Bank, is subject to periodic Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) reviews by the OCC. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions and does not limit the ability of such institutions to develop products and services believed best-suited for a particular community. An institution&#8217;s CRA assessment may be used by its regulators in their evaluation of certain applications, including a merger, acquisition or the establishment of a branch office. An unsatisfactory rating may be used as the basis for denial of such an application. 

Associated Bank&#8217;s latest CRA examination report was dated November 20, 2006, and carried a Satisfactory rating. 

Privacy 

Financial institutions, such as our national bank subsidiary, are required by statute and regulation to disclose their privacy policies. In addition, such financial institutions must appropriately safeguard its customers&#8217; nonpublic, personal information. 

Bank Secrecy Act / Anti-Money Laundering 

The Bank Secrecy Act (&#8220;BSA&#8221;), which is intended to require financial institutions to develop policies, procedures, and practices to prevent and deter money laundering, mandates that every national bank have a written, board-approved program that is reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with the BSA. The program must, at a minimum: (1) provide for a system of internal controls to assure ongoing compliance; (2) provide for independent testing for compliance; (3) designate an individual responsible for coordinating and monitoring day-to-day compliance; and (4) provide training for appropriate personnel. In addition, national banks are required to adopt a customer identification program as part of its BSA compliance program. National banks are also required to file Suspicious Activity Reports when they detect certain known or suspected violations of federal law or suspicious transactions related to a money laundering activity or a violation of the BSA. 

On February 23, 2012, Associated Bank entered into a Consent Order with the OCC regarding its BSA compliance, which required the Bank to take a variety of measures to ensure ongoing compliance with the BSA and related regulations. The Consent Order was terminated in March 2014. In connection with the termination, the Bank entered into a Stipulation and Consent Order for a Civil Money Penalty with the OCC dated June 26, 2014, which provided for the payment by the Bank of a civil money penalty of $500,000. The civil money penalty was paid in June 2014. 

In addition to complying with the BSA, the Bank is subject to the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the &#8220;Patriot Act&#8221;). The Patriot Act is designed to deny terrorists and criminals the ability to obtain access to the United States&#8217; financial system and has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers, and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act mandates that financial service companies implement additional policies and procedures and take heightened measures designed to address any or all of the following matters: customer identification programs, money laundering, terrorist financing, identifying and reporting suspicious activities and currency transactions, currency crimes, and cooperation between financial institutions and law enforcement authorities. 

Interstate Branching 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, national and state-chartered banks may open an initial branch in a state other than its home state (e.g., a host state) by establishing a de novo branch at any location in such host state at which a bank chartered in such host state could establish a branch. Applications to establish such branches must still be filed with the appropriate primary federal regulator. 

Volcker Rule 

The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits insured depository institutions and their holding companies from engaging in proprietary trading except in limited circumstances, and prohibits them from owning equity interests in excess of three percent (3%) of Tier 1 Capital in private equity and hedge funds (known as the &#8220;Volcker Rule&#8221;). On December 10, 2013, five U.S. financial regulators, including the Federal Reserve and the OCC, adopted final rules (the &#8220;Final Rules&#8221;) implementing the Volcker Rule. The Final Rules prohibit banking entities from (1) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for their own accounts, and (2) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds, which are referred to as &#8220;covered funds.&#8221; The Final Rules are intended to provide greater clarity with respect to both the extent of those primary prohibitions and of the related exemptions and exclusions. The Final Rules also require each regulated entity to establish an internal compliance program that is consistent with the extent to which it engages in activities covered by the Volcker Rule, which must include (for the largest entities) making regular reports about those activities to regulators. Although the Final Rules provide some tiering of compliance and reporting obligations based on size, the fundamental prohibitions of the Volcker Rule apply to banking entities of any size, including the Parent Company and Associated Bank. The Final Rules were effective April 1, 2014, but the conformance period was extended from its statutory end date of July 21, 2014 until July 21, 2015. In addition, the Federal Reserve granted an extension until July 21, 2016 of the conformance period for banking entities to conform investments in and relationships with covered funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013, and announced its intention to further extend this aspect of the conformance period until July 21, 2017. The Corporation has evaluated the implications of the Final Rules on its investments and does not expect any material financial implications. 

Incentive Compensation Policies and Restrictions 

In July 2010, the federal banking agencies issued guidance that applies to all banking organizations supervised by the agencies (thereby including both the Parent Company and the Bank). Pursuant to the guidance, to be consistent with safety and soundness principles, a banking organization&#8217;s incentive compensation arrangements should: (1) provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and reward; (2) be compatible with effective controls and risk management; and (3) be supported by strong corporate governance including active and effective oversight by the banking organization&#8217;s board of directors. Monitoring methods and processes used by a banking organization should be commensurate with the size and complexity of the organization and its use of incentive compensation. 

In addition, in March 2011, the federal banking agencies, along with the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, released a proposed rule intended to ensure that regulated financial institutions design their incentive compensation arrangements to account for risk. Specifically, the proposed rule would require compensation practices at the Parent Company and at the Bank to be consistent with the following principles: (1) compensation arrangements appropriately balance risk and financial reward; (2) such arrangements are compatible with effective controls and risk management; and (3) such arrangements are supported by strong corporate governance. In addition, financial institutions with $1 billion or more in assets would be required to have policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the rule and would be required to submit annual reports to their primary federal regulator. The comment period has closed and a final rule has not yet been published; however, the Corporation believes it is in compliance with the rule as currently proposed. 

Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Rule 

Under Regulation Z as implemented by the Truth in Lending Act, as amended effective January 10, 2014, mortgage lenders are required to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms. Mortgage lenders are required to determine consumers&#8217; ability to repay in one of two ways. The first alternative requires the mortgage lender to consider the following eight underwriting factors when making the credit decision: (1) current or reasonably expected income or assets; (2) current employment status; (3) the monthly payment on the covered transaction; (4) the monthly payment on any simultaneous loan; (5) the monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations; (6) current debt obligations, alimony, and child support; (7) the monthly debt-to-income ratio or residual income; and (8) credit history. Alternatively, the mortgage lender can originate &#8220;qualified mortgages,&#8221; which are entitled to a presumption that the creditor making the loan satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. In general, a &#8220;qualified mortgage&#8221; is a mortgage loan without negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years. In addition, to be a qualified mortgage the points and fees paid by a consumer cannot exceed 3% of the total loan amount. Qualified mortgages that are &#8220;higher-priced&#8221; (e.g., subprime loans) garner a rebuttable presumption of compliance with the ability-to-repay rules, while qualified mortgages that are not &#8220;higher-priced&#8221; (e.g. prime loans) are given a safe harbor of compliance. The Corporation is predominantly an originator of compliant qualified mortgages. 

Other Banking Regulations 

The Bank is also subject to a variety of other regulations with respect to the operation of its businesses, including but not limited to the Dodd-Frank Act, Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Fair Housing Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Expedited Funds Availability (Regulation CC), Reserve Requirements (Regulation D), Insider Transactions (Regulation O), Privacy of Consumer Information (Regulation P), Margin Stock Loans (Regulation U), Right To Financial Privacy Act, Flood Disaster Protection Act, Homeowners Protection Act, Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Telephone Consumer Protection Act, CAN-SPAM Act, Children&#8217;s Online Privacy Protection Act, and the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act. 

The laws and regulations to which we are subject are constantly under review by Congress, the federal regulatory agencies, and the state authorities. These laws and regulations could be changed drastically in the future, which could affect our profitability, our ability to compete effectively, or the composition of the financial services industry in which we compete. 

Government Monetary Policies and Economic Controls 

Our earnings and growth, as well as the earnings and growth of the banking industry, are affected by the credit policies of monetary authorities, including the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the national supply of bank credit in order to combat recession and curb inflationary pressures. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits, and changes in the Federal Reserve discount rate. These means are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth of bank loans, investments, and deposits, and may also affect interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve authorities have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to have such an effect in the future. 

In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in money markets, as well as the effect of credit policies by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve, it is difficult to predict the impact of possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand, or their effect on our business and earnings or on the financial condition of our various customers. 

Other Regulatory Authorities 

In addition to regulation, supervision and examination by federal banking agencies, the Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, including those that engage in securities brokerage, dealing and investment advisory activities, are subject to other federal and state securities laws and regulations, and to supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), the New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;), and others. 

Available Information 

We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. These filings are available to the public on the Internet at the SEC&#8217;s web site at www.sec.gov. Shareholders may also read and copy any document that we file at the SEC&#8217;s public reference rooms located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Shareholders may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. 

Our principal internet address is www.associatedbank.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, shareholders may request a copy of any of our filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing or e-mailing us using the following information: Associated Banc-Corp, Attn: Investor Relations, 433 Main Street, Green Bay, WI 54301; or e-mail to shareholders@associatedbank.com. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, committee charters for standing committees of the Board and other governance documents are all available on our website, www.associatedbank.com, "About Us," "Investor Relations," "Governance Documents." We will disclose on our website amendments to or waivers from our Code of Ethics in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. Information contained on any of our websites is not deemed to be a part of this Annual Report. 

