 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General Information

Artesian Resources Corporation, a Delaware Corporation incorporated in Delaware in 1927, operates as the holding company of eight wholly-owned subsidiaries offering water, wastewater and other services on the Delmarva Peninsula. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 664 Churchmans Road, Newark, Delaware 19702. Our principal subsidiary, Artesian Water Company, Inc., is the oldest and largest investor-owned public water utility on the Delmarva Peninsula, and has been providing superior water service since 1905. We distribute and sell water, including water for public and private fire protection, to residential, commercial, industrial, municipal and utility customers throughout the states of Delaware, Maryland and Pennsylvania. We provide wastewater services to customers in Delaware. In addition, we provide contract water and wastewater operations, and water and sewer Service Line Protection Plans. Our Class A Non-Voting Common Stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and trades under the symbol "ARTNA."

Artesian Resources Corporation, or Artesian Resources, operates as the parent holding company of five regulated public utilities: Artesian Water Company, Inc., or Artesian Water, Artesian Water Pennsylvania, Inc., or Artesian Water Pennsylvania, Artesian Water Maryland, Inc., or Artesian Water Maryland, Artesian Wastewater Management, Inc., or Artesian Wastewater, Artesian Wastewater Maryland, Inc., or Artesian Wastewater Maryland, and three non-regulated subsidiaries: Artesian Utility Development, Inc., or Artesian Utility, Artesian Development Corporation, or Artesian Development, and Artesian Consulting Engineers, Inc., or Artesian Consulting Engineers. The terms "we," "our" and the "Company" as used herein refer to Artesian Resources and its subsidiaries. The business activity conducted by each of our subsidiaries is discussed below under separate headings.

Our Market

Our current market area is the Delmarva Peninsula. Our largest service area is in the State of Delaware, which had an estimated population of approximately 946,000 at July 1, 2015. According to the US Census Bureau, Delaware's population increased an estimated 5.4% from 2010 to 2015, as compared to the nationwide growth rate of approximately 4.1%. Substantial portions of Delaware, particularly outsid e of New Castle County, are not served by a public water or wastewater system and represent potential opportunities for Artesian Water and Artesian Wastewater to obtain new exclusive franchised service areas. We continue to focus resources on developing and serving existing service territories and obtaining new territories throughout the State.

We have interconnection agreements for the sale of water with the towns of Elkton and Chesapeake City, Maryland. The Town of Elkton is required to take a minimum o f 250,000 gallons per day of water through the interconnection and may take a maximum of 1.5 million gallons per day, or mgd. 

We hold Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity, or CPCNs, for approximately 282 square miles of exclusive water service territory and approximately 25 square miles of wastewater service territory, most of which is in Delaware and some in Maryland and Pennsylvania. Our largest connected regional water system, consisting of approximately 141 square miles and 74,000 customers, is located in northern New Castle County and portions of southern New Castle County, Delaware. A significant portion of our exclusive service territory in Delaware remains undeveloped, and if and when development occurs and there is population growth in these areas, along with the anticipated population growth in Maryland, we will increase our customer base by providing water and/or wastewater service to the newly developed areas and new customers.

Subsidiaries

Artesian Water 

Artesian Water, our principal subsidiary, is the oldest and largest public water utility in the State of Delaware and has been providing water service within the state since 1905. Artesian Water distributes and sells water to residential, commercial, industrial, governmental, municipal and utility customers throughout the State of Delaware. In addition, Artesian Water provides services to other water utilities, including operations and billing functions, and also has contract operation agreements with private and municipal water providers. We also provide water for public and private fire protection to customers in our service territories.

Artesian Water Maryland 

Artesian Water Maryland began operations in August 2007. Artesian Water Maryland distributes and sells water to residential, commercial, industrial and municipal customers in Cecil County, Maryland.

Artesian Water Pennsylvania 

Artesian Water Pennsylvania began operations upon receiving recognition as a regulated public water utility by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, or PAPUC, in 2002. It provides water service to a residential community in Chester County. Artesian Water Pennsylvania filed an application with the PAPUC to increase our service area in Pennsylvania, which was approved and a related order was entered on February 4, 2005. This application involved specific developments, in which we expect modest future growth.

Artesian Wastewater 

Artesian Wastewater is a regulated entity that owns wastewater collection and treatment infrastructure and provides wastewater services to customers in Delaware as a regulated public wastewater service company. As of December 31, 2015, Artesian Wastewater owned and operated four wastewater treatment facilities, which are capable of treating approximately 730,000 gallons per day and can be expanded to treat approximately 1.6 mgd.

Artesian Wastewater Maryland 

Artesian Wastewater Maryland is a regulated wastewater entity in the State of Maryland and was incorporated on June 3, 2008. Artesian Wastewater Maryland is able to provide public wastewater services to customers in the State of Maryland. It is currently not providing wastewater services in Maryland.

Artesian Utility 

Artesian Utility was formed in 1996. It designs and builds water and wastewater infrastructure and provides contract water and wastewater services on the Delmarva Peninsula. Artesian Utility also evaluates land parcels, provides recommendations to developers on the size of water or wastewater facilities and the type of technology that should be used for treatment at such facilities, and operates water and wastewater facilities in Delaware for municipal and governmental organizations. Artesian Utility also contracts with developers for design and construction of wastewater facilities within the Delmarva Peninsula, using a number of different technologies for treatment of wastewater at each facility. In addition, as further discussed below, effective April 2012, Artesian Utility operates the Water Service Line Protection Plan, or WSLP Plan, and the Sewer Service Line Protection Plan, or SSLP Plan. In November 2015, a third plan was added, the Internal Service Line Protection, or ISLP Plan.

We currently operate wastewater treatment facilities for the town of Middletown, Delaware, in southern New Castle County, or Middletown, under a 20-year contract that expires in July 2022. The facilities include two wastewater treatment stations with capacities of up to approximatel y 2.5 mgd and 250,000 gallons per day, respectively. We also operate a wastewater disposal facility in Middletown in order to support the 2.5 mgd wastewater facility. One of the wastewater treatment facilities in Middletown now provides reclaimed wastewater for use in spray irrigation on public and agricultural lands in the area.

Artesian Utility has operated the WSLP Plan and the SSLP Plan since 2012. Artesian Resources initiated the WSLP Plan in March 2005. The WSLP Plan covers all parts, material and labor required to repair or replace participating customers' leaking water service lines up to an annual limit. The WSLP Plan was expanded in the second quarter of 2008 to include maintenance or repair to customers' sewer lines. The SSLP Plan covers all parts, material and labor required to repair or replace participating customers' leaking or clogged sewer lines up to an annual limit. Also, in the second quarter of 2010, the WSLP Plan and SSLP Plan were extended to include non-utility customers of Artesian Resource s. The ISLP Plan was introduced in November 2015 to further enhance available coverage to include water and wastewater lines within the residence. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 19,300, or 25.1%, of our eligible water customers signed up for the WSLP Plan, approximately 14,700, or 19.1%, of our eligible customers signed up for the SSLP Plan and approximately 1,200 non-customer participants signed up for either the WSLP Plan or SSLP Plan. Approximately 800 customers signed up under the ISLP Plan in the first two months it was offered.

Artesian Development 

Artesian Development is a real estate holding company that owns properties, including land zoned for office buildings, a water treatment plant and wastewater facility, as well as property for current operations, including an office facility in Sussex County, Delaware. The facility consists of approximately 10,000 square feet of office space along with nearly 10,000 square feet of warehouse space. This facility allows all of our Sussex County, Delaware operations to be housed in one central location.

Artesian Consulting Engineers 

Artesian Consulting Engineers no longer offers development and architectural services to outside third parties. Artesian will continue to provide design and engineering contract services through our Artesian Utility subsidiary.

Regulatory Matters

Overview 

Our water and wastewater utility operations are subject to regulation by their respective state regulatory commissions, which have broad administrative power and authority to regulate rates charged for service, determine franchise areas and conditions of service, approve acquisitions, authorize the issuance of securities and other matters. The profitability of our utility operations is influenced, to a great extent, by the timeliness and adequacy of regulatory relief we are granted by the respective regulatory commissions or authorities in the states in which we operate.

We are subject to regulation by the following state regulatory commissions:

&#160;

&#183; &#160; The Delaware Public Service Commission, or DEPSC, regulates both Artesian Water and Artesian Wastewater.

&#183; &#160; The Maryland Public Service Commission, or MDPSC, regulates both Artesian Water Maryland and Artesian Wastewater Maryland.

&#183; &#160; The Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, or PAPUC, regulates Artesian Water Pennsylvania.

Our water and wastewater utility operations are also subject to regulation under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, or Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act of 1972, or the Clean Water Act, and related state laws, and under federal and state regulations issued under these laws. These laws and regulations establish criteria and standards for drinking water and for wastewater discharges. Capital expenditures and operating costs required as a result of water quality standards and environmental requirements have been traditionally recognized by state regulatory commissions as appropriate for inclusion in establishing rates.

Water and Wastewater Rates 

Our regulated utilities periodically seek rate increases to cover the cost of increased operating expenses, increased financing expenses due to additional investments in utility plant and other costs of doing business. In Delaware, utilities are permitted by law to place rates into effect, under bond, on a temporary basis pending completion of a rate increase proceeding. The first temporary increase may be up to the lesser of $2.5 million on an annual basis or 15% of gross water sales. Should the r ate case not be completed within seven months, by law, the utility may put the entire requested rate relief, up to 15% of gross water sales, in effect under bond until a final resolution is ordered and placed into effect. If any such rates are found to be in excess of rates the DEPSC finds to be appropriate, the utility must refund customers the portion found to be in excess with interest. The timing of our rate increase requests are therefore dependent upon the estimated cost of the administrative process in relation to the investments and expenses that we hope to recover through the rate increase. We can provide no assurances that rate increase requests will be approved by applicable regulatory agencies and, if approved, we cannot guarantee that these rate increases will be granted in a timely or sufficient manner to cover the investments and expenses for which we initially sought the rate increase. 

On April 11, 2014, Artesian Water filed a request with the DEPSC to implement new rates to meet a requested increase in revenue of 15.90%, or approximately $10.0 million, on an annualized basis. The actual effective requested increase was 12.58%, since, in accordance with applicable law, Artesian Water had been permitted to recover specific investments made in infrastructure through the assessment of a cumulative 3.32% Distribution System Improvement Charge, or DSIC. The DSIC rate of 3.32% was set to zero when the first step of temporary rates designed to generate an increase of 3.98%, or $2.5 million, on an annual basis, was placed into effect on June 10, 2014. A second step of temporary rates designed to generate an increase of 7.17%, or $4.5 million, on an annualized basis, was placed into effect on November 13, 2014. A portion of the second step of temporary increases was held in reserve until a final decision was determined by the DEPSC and was not reflected in income. On August 18, 2015, the DEPSC made a preliminary ruling in response to Artesian Water's April 11, 2014 request. The preliminary ruling recommended a permanent rate increase in revenue of approximately $6.0 million, or 9.5%, on an annualized basis, which is an incremental increase for customers of approximately 6.2% above the DSIC rate previously in effect. On October 6, 2015, a DEPSC order was issued concurring with the preliminary ruling issued on August 18, 2015. On January 19, 2016, the final DEPSC order was issued related to the permanent rate increase and concurred with the October 6, 2015 order. Since the permanent rate increase was less than amounts collected under previously approved temporary increases in rates, Artesian Water was required to refund a portion of the temporary rate increases to its customers. The refund, plus interest, at the average prime rate, for the overpayment from customers was applied to current and future customer bills in October 2015. Since the final rate award was at a level not less than the amount previously reported as income, there was no material impact upon previously reported water sales revenue. &#160; The new rates are designed to allow recovery of capital investments made by Artesian Water and to cover increased costs of operations, including water quality testing, chemicals and electricity for water treatment, taxes, labor and benefits. Prior to the 2014 filing, Artesian Water's last request to implement new rates was filed in April 2011.

On January 18, 2013, Artesian Wastewater filed an application with the DEPSC to revise its rates and charges for wastewater services concerning territories located in Kent and Sussex County, Delaware. Artesian Wastewater requested authorization to implement proposed rates for wastewater services to meet a requested increase in revenue of approximately $343,000, or 34.8%, on an annualized basis. The new rates were designed to support Artesian Wastewater's ongoing capital improvement program and to cover increased costs of operations. On August 6, 2013, Artesian Wastewater, the Staff of the DEPSC and the Division of the Public Advocate entered into an agreement to settle Artesian Wastewater's application for an increase in rates. On October 8, 2013, the DEPSC approved the settlement agreement authorizing a two-step increase in rates, with the first step effective upon approval of the settlement and the second step effective in September 2014. The second increase in rates was fully implemented as of September 30, 2014. Based on the number of households at the time of the settlement, the new rates were estimated to provide Artesian Wastewater approxim ately $174,000 in additional annual revenue. The settlement also authorized a return on equity of 10%. 

Service Territory Expansion 

In Delaware, a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity, or CPCN, grants a water or wastewater company the exclusive right to serve all existing and new customers within a designated area. The DEPSC has the authority to issue and revoke these CPCNs. In this Form 10-K, we may refer to CPCNs as "franchises" or "service territories."

For a water company, the DEPSC may grant a CPCN under circumstances where there has been a determination that the water in the proposed service area does not meet the regulations governing drinking water standards of the State Division of Public Health for human consumption or where the supply is insufficient to meet the projected demand. For a wastewater company, the DEPSC has jurisdiction over non-governmental wastewater utilities having fifty or more customers in the aggregate. A CPCN for water and wastewater utilities shall be granted by the DEPSC to applicants in possession of one of the following:

&#160;

&#216; a signed service agreement with the developer of a proposed subdivision or development, which subdivision or development has been duly approved by the respective county government;

&#216; a petition requesting such service signed by a majority of the landowners of the proposed territory to be served; or

&#216; a duly certified copy of a resolution from the governing body of a county or municipality requesting the applicant to provide service to the proposed territory to be served.

CPCNs are not transferable. A water or wastewater utility that has a CPCN must obtain the approval of the DEPSC to abandon a service territory. Once a CPCN is granted to a water or wastewater utility, it may not be suspended or terminated unless the DEPSC determines in accordance with its rules and regulations that good cause exists for any such suspension or termination. Although Artesian has been granted an exclusive franchise for each of its existing water and wastewater systems, its ability to expand service areas can be affected by the DEPSC awarding franchises to other regulated water or wastewater utilities with whom we compete for such franchises.

In Maryland, the Company must obtain approval from the appropriate local government authority for the ability to serve a particular area and also ensure that the acquired area is in the county's master water and sewer plan. The authority to exercise a franchise must then be obtained from the MDPSC. Utilities that seek to develop a franchise by constructing new facilities must obtain appropriate approvals from the Maryland Department of the Environment, the local government and the MDPSC. The utility must also obtain approval for soil and erosion plans and easement agreements from appropriate parties.

Other Regulatory Matters 

Delaware law permits water utilities to put into effect, on a semi-annual basis, increases related to specific types of distribution system improvements through a Distribution System Improvement Charge, or DSIC. This charge may be implemented by water utilities between general rate increase applications that normally recognize changes in a water utility's overall financial position. The DSIC approval process is less costly when compared to the approval process for general rate increase requests. The DSIC rate applied between base rate filings is capped at 7.5% of the amount billed to customers under otherwise applicable rates and charges, and the DSIC rate increase applied cannot exceed 5% within any 12-month period. On December 17, 2013, the DEPSC approved Artesian Water's application to collect a cumulative DSIC rate of 3.32%, effective January 1, 2014, subject to audit at a later date. This rate was based on approximately $12.9 million in eligible plant improvements since September 30, 2011. The DSIC rate of 3.32% was set to zero when the first step of temporary rates designed to generate an increase of 3.98%, or $2.5 million on an annual basis, was placed into effect on June 10, 2014. In November 2014, Artesian Water filed an application with the DEPSC for approval to collect a DSIC rate of 0.34% effective January 1, 2015. This rate was based on approximately $1.3 million in eligible plant improvements since September 30, 2014. On December 16, 2014, the DEPSC approved the DSIC effective January 1, 2015, subject to audit at a later date. In May 2015, Artesian Water filed an application with the DEPSC for approval to collect a cumulative DSIC rate of 1.15% effective July 1, 2015. This rate was based on approximately $4.6 million in eligible plant improvements through April 30, 2015. On June 16, 2015 the DEPSC approved the DSIC effective July 1, 2015, subject to audit at a later date. On November 24, 2015, Artesian Water filed an application with the DEPSC for approval to collect a cumulative DSIC rate of 1.57%. This rate was based on approximately $7.0 million in eligible plant improvements through October 31, 2015. On December 15, 2015, the DEPSC approved the DSIC effective January 1, 2016, subject to audit at a later date.

Environmental Regulation 

Our water and wastewater operations are subject to federal, state, and local requirements relating to environmental protection. The United States Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, or DNREC, and the Delaware Division of Public Health or the DPH, regulate the water quality of our treatment and distribution systems in Delaware, as do the EPA and the Maryland Department of the Environment, or MDE, with respect to our operations in Maryland. Chester Water Authority, which supplies water to Artesian Water through interconnections in northern New Castle County, is regulated by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, as well as the EPA. We believe that we are in material compliance with all current federal, state and local water quality standards, including regulations under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act. However, if new water quality regulations are too costly, or if we fail to comply with such regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

The water industry is capital intensive, with the highest capital investment in plant and equipment per dollar of revenue among all utilities. Increasingly stringent drinking water regulations to meet the requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act have required the water industry to invest in more advanced treatment systems and processes, which require a heightened level of expertise. Significant enhancements were made to existing facilities to effectively treat and remove compounds as required by government agencies, such as ultra violet oxidation treatment, ceramic membrane filtration and carbon filtration. We are currently in full compliance with the requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act. Even though our water utility was founded in 1905, the majority of our investment in infrastructure occurred in the last 40 years.

U nder Delaware state laws and regulations, we are required to file applications with DNREC for water allocation permits for each of our operating wells pumping greater than 50,000 gallons per day. For any wells in the Delaware River Basin, we must also file allocation permits with the Delaware River Basin Commission, or DRBC. We have 119 operating and 60 observation and monitoring wells in our Delaware systems. At December 31, 2015, we had allocation permits for 100 wells, permit applications pending for 3 wells, and 16 wells that do not require a permit. 

Our access to aquifers within our service territory is not exclusive. Water allocation permits control the amount of water that can be drawn from water resources and are granted with specific restrictions on water level draw down limits, annual, monthly and daily pumpage limits, and well field allocation pumpage limits. We are also subject to water allocation reg ulations that control the amount of water that we can draw from water sources. As a result, if new or more restrictive water allocation regulations are imposed, they could have an adverse effect on our ability to supply the demands of our customers, and in turn, our water supply revenues and results of operations. Our ability to supply the demands of our customers historically has not been affected by private usage of the aquifers by landowners or the limits imposed by the state of Delaware. Because of the extensive regulatory requirements relating to the withdrawal of any significant amounts of water from the aquifers, we believe that third party usage of the aquifers within our service territory will not interfere with our ability to meet the present and future demands of our customers.

As required by the Safe Drinking Water Act, the EPA has established maximum contaminant levels for various substances found in drinking water to ensure that the water is safe for human consumption. These limits are known as Maximum Contaminant Levels and Maximum Residual Disinfection Levels. The EPA also regulates how often public water systems monitor their water for contaminants and report the monitoring results to the individual state agencies or the EPA. Generally, the larger the population served by a water system, the more frequent the monitoring and reporting requirements. The Safe Drinking Water Act applies to all 50 states.

DPH has set maximum contaminant levels for certain substances that are more restrictive than the maximum contaminant levels set by the EPA. The DPH is the EPA's agent for enforcing the Safe Drinking Water Act in Delaware and, in that capacity, monitors the activities of Artesian Water and reviews the results of water quality tests performed by Artesian Water for adherence to applicable regulations. Artesian Water is also subject to other laws regulating substances and contaminants in water, including rules for volatile organic compounds and the Total Coliform Rule.

A normal by-product of our iron removal treatment facilities is a solid consisting of the iron removed from untreated groundwater plus residue from chemicals used in the treatment process. The solids produced at our facilities are either disposed directly into approved wastewater facilities or removed from our facilities by a licensed third party vendor. A normal by-product of our carbon absorption filtration process is exhausted carbon media, which is disposed of by the contractor providing the media replacement. Management believes that compliance with existing federal, state or local laws and regulations regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has no material effect upon the business and affairs of the Company, but there is no assurance that such compliance will continue to not have a material effect in the future.

The MDE ensures that water quality and quantity at all public water systems in Maryland meet the needs of the public and are in compliance with federal and state regulations. The MDE also ensures that public drinking water systems provide safe and adequate water to all current and future users in Maryland, and that appropriate usage, planning, and conservation policies are implemented for Maryland's water resources. The MDE oversees the development of Source Water Assessments for water supplies, and issues water appropriation permits for public drinking water systems. In order to appropriate water for municipal, commercial, industrial or other non-domestic uses, a Water Appropriation Permit must be obtained. Issuance of the permit involves evaluating the needs of the user and the potential impact of the withdrawal on neighboring users and the water source in order to maximize beneficial use of the water of the State of Maryland. Permits for large appropriations often involve conducting pump tests to measure adequacy of an aquifer and safe yield of a well, or reviewing stream flow records to determine the adequacy of a surface water source. Regulations were finalized in 1999 that require all new community water systems to have sufficient technical, managerial and financial capacity to provide safe drinking water to their consumers prior to being issued a Construction Permit. Also, in 2007, capacity management guidance was finalized. Capacity limiting factors can include, source capacity, treatment capacity and appropriation permit quantity. The quantity of water withdrawn from the Port Deposit surface water intake is allocated by the Susquehanna River Basin Commission, or SRBC, and MDE. We have 12 operating wells and one surface water in-take in our Maryland systems. 

The Clean Water Act has established the foundation for wastewater discharge control in the United States. The Clean Water Act established a control program for ensuring that communities have clean water by regulating the release of contaminants into waterways. Permits that limit the amounts of pollutants discharged are required of all wastewater dischargers under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit program. The Clean Water Act also requires that wastewater treatment plant discharges meet a minimum of secondary treatment. The secondary treatment process can remove up to 90% of the organic matter in wastewater. We operate environmentally friendly wastewater systems that meet all requirements of federal, state and local standards.

S ources of Water 

We derive about 95% of our self-supplied groundwater from wells that pump groundwater from aquifers and other formations located in the Atlantic Coastal Plain. The remaining 5% of our groundwater supply comes from wells in the Piedmont Province. We use a variety of treatment methods, including aeration, pH adjustment, chlorination, fluoridation, ultra violet oxidation, arsenic removal, nitrate removal, radium removal, iron removal, and carbon absorption to meet federal, state and local water quality standards. Additionally, a corrosion inhibitor is added to all of our self-supplied groundwater and most of the supply from interconnections. We have 57 different water treatment facilities in our Delaware systems. We have 8 separate water treatment facilities in our Maryland systems. All water supplies that we purchase from neighboring utilities are potable. Based on our experience, we believe that the costs of treating groundwater are significantly lower than those of treating surface water.

To supplement our groundwater supply, we purchase treated surface water through interconnections only in the northern service area of our New Castle County, Delaware system. The treated surface water is blended with our groundwater supply for distribution to our customers. Nearly 85% of the overall 7.6 billion gallons of water we distributed in all of our Delaware systems during 2015 &#160; came from our groundwater wells, while the remaining 15% came from interconnections with other utilities and municipalities. The majority of the 0.1 billion gallons of water we distributed in all of our Maryland systems during 2015 &#160; came from our groundwater wells, while a portion came from treated surface water. In Delaware in 2015, we pumped an average of 17.9 mgd from our groundwater wells and obtained an average of approximately 3.1 mgd from interconnections. We have one water treatment facility that treats surface water from the Susquehanna River, located in Cecil County, Maryland. Our peak water supply capacity currently is approximately 55.0 mgd in Delaware and approximately 2.0 mgd in Maryland. We believe that we have in place sufficient capacity to provide water service for the foreseeable future to all existing and new customers in all of our service territories. 

&#160;

Interconnections and Storage

Most of our New Castle County, Delaware water system is interconnected. In the remainder of the State of Delaware, we have several satellite systems that have not yet been connected by transmission and distribution facilities. We intend to join these systems into larger integrated regional systems through the construction of a transmission and distribution network as development continues and our expansion efforts provide us with contiguous exclusive service territories.

In Delaware, we have 23 interconnections with 2 neighboring water utilities and 7 municipalities that provide us with the ability to purchase or sell water. An interconnection agreement with the Chester Water Authority has a "take or pay" clause requiring us to purchase 1.095 billion gallons annually. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, we used the minimum draw under this agreement. The Chester Water Authority agreement, which expires December 31, 2021, provides for the right to extend the term of this agreement through and including December 31, 2047, at our option, subject to the approval of the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. All of the interconnections provide Artesian Water the ability to sell water to neighboring water utilities or municipalities. In Maryland, we have one interconnection that connects the Artesian Water system in Delaware to the Meadowview System, one interconnection with a neighboring utility, and three interconnections with the Town of Elkton. The interconnection with the Artesian Water Delaware system is capable of providing up to 3.0 mgd of water to our Maryland systems, of which 1.5 mgd is available to the Town of Elkton per our agreement with the Town. In March 2013, the interconnection to the Town of Chesapeake City was completed. The Town of Chesapeake City placed in service an interconnection and 1.57 miles of new water main to provide water to the Town of Chesapeake City from the Artesian Water Delaware system on Chesapeake City Road. The interconnection is currently the town's sole source of water supply, averaging approximately 83,000 gallons per day. The Chesapeake City Road plant is capable of producing up to 3 mgd and is part of a regional system with a production capacity of up to 28 mgd.

As of December 31, 2015, we were serving customers through approximately 1,218 miles of transmission and distribution mains. Mains range in diameter from two inches to twenty-four inches, and most of the mains are made of ductile iron or cast iron. We supply public fire protection service through approximately 5,942 hydrants installed throughout our service territories.

We have 29 storage tanks in Delaware, most of which are elevated, providing total system storage of 42 million gallons. We have developed and are using an Aquifer Storage and Recovery, or ASR, system in New Castle County, Delaware. Our ASR system provides approximately 130 million gallons of storage capacity, which can be withdrawn at an average rate of approximately 1 mgd. At some locations, we rely on hydropneumatic tanks to maintain adequate system pressures. Where possible, we combine our smaller satellite systems with systems having elevated storage facilities. In Cecil County, Maryland we have 7 storage tanks capable of storing approximately 2.4 million gallons.

Additional General Information

Seasonality 

Substantially all of our water customers are metered, which allows us to measure and bill for our customers' water consumption. Demand for water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months primarily due to additional customer requirements for water in connection with cooling systems, swimming pools, irrigation systems and other outside water use. Throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand for water will vary with temperature and rainfall. In the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than expected, or there is more rainfall than expected, the demand for water may decrease and our revenues may be adversely affected.

Competition 

Our business in our franchised service areas is substantially free from direct competition with other public utilities, municipalities and other entities. However, our ability to provide additional water and wastewater services is subject to competition from other public utilities, municipalities and other entities. Even though our regulated utilities have been granted an exclusive franchise for each of our existing community water and wastewater systems, our ability to expand service areas can be affected by the DEPSC, the MDPSC or the PAPUC, awarding franchises to other regulated water or wastewater utilities with whom we compete for such franchises.

&#160;

Employees 

The Company has no collective bargaining agreements with any of its employees, and its work force is not union organized or union represented. As of December 31, 2015, we employed 231 full-time employees. Of these employees, 52 were officers and managers; 119 were employed as operations personnel, including engineers, technicians, draftsman, maintenance and repair persons, meter readers and utility personnel; and 28 were employed in accounting, budgeting, information systems, human resources, customer relations and public relations. The remaining 32 employees were administrative personnel. We believe that our employee relations are good.

Available Information 

We are a Delaware corporation with our principal executive offices located at 664 Churchmans Road, Newark, Delaware, 19702. Our telephone number is (302) 453-6900 and our website address is www.artesianresources.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Code of Ethics, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Board Committee Charter and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We include our website address in this Annual Report on Form 10-K only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. Information contained on our website shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this report.

We file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act electronically with the SEC. The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

&#160;

&#160;

