 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Prothena Corporation plc is a global biotechnology company seeking to fundamentally change the course of progressive diseases with its late-stage clinical pipeline of novel therapeutic antibodies. Fueled by its deep scientific understanding built over decades of research in protein misfolding and cell adhesion &#8211; the root causes of many serious or currently untreatable amyloid and inflammatory diseases &#8211; Prothena has advanced several drug candidates into clinical trials while pursuing discovery of additional novel therapies. 

Our clinical pipeline of antibody-based product candidates targets a number of potential indications including AL amyloidosis (NEOD001), Parkinson&#8217;s disease and other related synucleinopathies (PRX002) and inflammatory diseases including psoriasis (PRX003). 

We are a public limited company established on December 20, 2012 under the laws of Ireland. Our ordinary shares began trading on The Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol &#8220;PRTA&#8221; on December 21, 2012 and currently trade on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. 

Our Strategy 

Our goal is to be a leading biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of novel immunotherapies for the treatment of diseases that involve protein misfolding or cell adhesion. Key elements of our strategy to achieve this goal are to: 

&#8226; Concentrate our discovery and development efforts on diseases that involve protein misfolding or cell adhesion, where we have decades of scientific expertise and experience. 

We leverage our core scientific expertise and proprietary technology to develop innovative antibody-based therapeutics for the potential treatment of major unmet medical needs. Once we formulate a novel hypothesis or approach to a known target, we generate antibodies against that target. Specific and selective antibodies are characterized in vitro, then used to test the initial hypothesis in vivo using animal models of disease. We sometimes rely on the use of animal models that have been extensively developed by external laboratories, as we have already done with our programs for AL amyloidosis, Parkinson&#8217;s disease and psoriasis. To establish early clinical proof of concept for our programs, we leverage our insight of disease pathology and, when possible, employ biomarker endpoints as a way to detect signals of biological activity. We may elect to start clinical testing of our antibodies in indications that have well-established endpoints in order to demonstrate proof of concept as a basis for further investment in clinical trials, either by us or potential partners. 

&#8226; Focus on &#32; diseases that lack effective therapies. 

We focus on the development and commercialization of therapies for serious and/or life-threatening diseases that currently lack effective therapies. Our efforts in AL amyloidosis and Parkinson&#8217;s disease are examples of this. In AL amyloidosis, misfolded proteins aggregate and form amyloid, which can accumulate in vital organs, disrupt their normal function and cause death. Today, there are no approved treatments that directly target and clear amyloid that builds up in organs. NEOD001 is intended to neutralize and clear disease-causing amyloid in AL amyloidosis and is the first immunotherapy directly targeting light chain amyloid to receive Fast Track designation from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the &#8220;FDA&#8221;). 

Similarly, in Parkinson&#8217;s disease, all of the currently approved therapies focus on the alleviation of symptoms without addressing the underlying cause of the disease. Prothena is focusing its efforts to develop a therapeutic with the potential to slow the progression of Parkinson&#8217;s disease by targeting the &#945;- synuclein protein. Synucleins are a family of proteins, of which there are three known members: &#945;- synuclein, &#946;-synuclein, and &#947;-synuclein. The &#945;- &#32;and &#946;-synuclein proteins are found primarily in brain tissue. There is genetic evidence that &#945;- synuclein plays a fundamental role in Parkinson&#8217;s disease, and an increasing body of evidence demonstrates that pathogenic forms of &#945;- synuclein can be propagated and transmitted from neuron to neuron. Prothena&#8217;s scientists have generated PRX002 - a monoclonal antibody targeting &#945;- synuclein that is designed to slow or reduce the neurodegeneration associated with &#945;- synuclein misfolding and/or its transmission. We are developing PRX002 in collaboration with Roche for the potential treatment of Parkinson&#8217;s disease and other related synucleinopathies. 

Moving forward, we intend to advance new discovery-stage monoclonal antibody therapeutics with first-in-class or best-in-class potential. 

&#8226; Strategically partner, collaborate, and leverage external resources. 

We will rely on strategic collaborations and a combination of internal and external resources to advance our objectives. 

Our robust discovery engine generates monoclonal antibodies that may be useful in treating unmet medical needs. For investigational therapeutic antibody programs targeting broad patient populations that may require large clinical trials and development investment, we may seek to collaborate or license these programs to biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies for development and/or commercialization. Our collaboration with Roche to develop PRX002 for the potential treatment of Parkinson&#8217;s disease and other related synucleinopathies is a good example of this. 

We also collaborate with scientific and clinical experts in disease areas of interest to test and characterize our potential therapeutic antibody candidates and to gain feedback and guidance on our programs. 

Although we rely on, and will expand as appropriate, strong internal talent with expertise in our core areas of focus, we also rely on external resources, as needed, to execute efficiently on our clinical development and business objectives. We engage consultants who have certain functional and/or disease area expertise to help us execute specific activities related to our programs. 

&#8226; Pursue commercialization strategies to maximize the value of our product candidates or future potential products. 

As we move our drug candidates through development toward regulatory approval, we will evaluate several strategic options for commercialization. These options include building our own internal sales force; forging partnerships with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, whereby we jointly sell and market the product; regional licensing for markets where we do not have expertise or infrastructure; and out-licensing our product, whereby another pharmaceutical or biotechnology company sells and markets our product and pays us a royalty on sales. We evaluate options for each product based on a number of factors including commercial synergies and expertise, capital necessary to execute on each option, size of the market to be addressed and the expertise and terms of potential offers from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. 

Research and Development Pipeline 

Our research and development pipeline includes three therapeutic antibody programs in clinical development: NEOD001 for the potential treatment of AL amyloidosis; PRX002, in collaboration with Roche, for the potential treatment of Parkinson&#8217;s disease and other related synucleinopathies; and PRX003 for the potential treatment of inflammatory diseases including psoriasis. We also have a preclinical program for the potential treatment of TTR amyloidosis (ATTR). 

The following table summarizes the status of our clinical pipeline: 

Our Programs 

NEOD001 for AL Amyloidosis 

Our most advanced program is NEOD001, a monoclonal antibody that specifically targets the amyloid that accumulates in AL amyloidosis. Systemic amyloidoses, including AL, AA and ATTR amyloidosis, are a complex group of diseases caused by tissue deposition of amyloid proteins that result in progressive organ damage. The most common type, AL amyloidosis or primary systemic amyloidosis, results from hematological disorder involving abnormal plasma cells. Plasma cells normally produce light chains that pair with heavy chains to make functional antibodies. But in AL amyloidosis, something goes awry - the cause remains unknown - whereby a subset of clonal plasma cells overproduce a single light chain, or fragment thereof, in great abundance. These light chains then misfold and eventually aggregate into tissues, such as heart and kidneys, causing extensive organ damage, fatigue, and potentially organ failure and death. In some cases, patients may have multiple organ involvement. 

AL amyloidosis is a grievous disease and there are no approved treatments that directly target the toxic forms of the AL protein that build up in the organs. AL amyloidosis is a rare disorder. The Amyloidosis Foundation estimates that approximately 30,000 to 45,000 patients are living with AL amyloidosis in the US and EU today. It is estimated that there are approximately 10,000 to 15,000 new cases of AL amyloidosis diagnosed annually in the United States and EU. The cause of AL amyloidosis remains poorly understood, and we believe this disease is significantly underdiagnosed. 

Current treatment for patients with AL amyloidosis may include autologous stem cell transplant or the administration of off-label chemotherapeutic and/or oncologic therapies. The goal of these treatments are to control the hematologic burden by targeting clonal plasma cells in order to decrease the production of new light chain. These chemotherapeutic and/or oncologic agents are associated with known adverse event profiles and patients often become refractory to their hematologic effect and/or relapse. In addition, the target of these therapies is the plasma cells responsible for production of light chain, rather than the toxic light chain in circulation or built up in the organs. There remains a significant unmet need to directly target and remove the amyloid deposited on organs, to improve organ function and survival. 

NEOD001 is a humanized monoclonal antibody that specifically targets the circulating misfolded soluble light chain and deposited insoluble amyloid that accumulates in AL amyloidosis. NEOD001 received Fast Track designation from the FDA in December 2014. 

The purpose of the Fast Track designation is to make important new drugs available to patients earlier. The Fast Track program also provides a company with the ability to submit sections of the Biologics License Applications ("BLA") for review before the company submits the complete BLA. This enables the FDA to review sections of the BLA as they are received, rather than waiting until every section of the application is completed, and also allows for Priority Review, which can shorten the standard review of the final BLA to six months. A drug program with Fast Track designation permits the company to have early and frequent communications with the FDA in the development and review of the product candidate, potentially leading to faster drug approval. 

In addition, NEOD001 was granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of AL and AA amyloidosis by the FDA in 2012 and for the treatment of AL amyloidosis by the European Medicines Agency (the "EMA") in 2013. 

Clinical Development Program for NEOD001 

In December 2014, we initiated The VITAL Amyloidosis Study, a Phase 3 global, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial for NEOD001 in patients with AL amyloidosis. The trial is designed to support global regulatory approvals. We intend to enroll approximately 230 newly-diagnosed, treatment-na&#239;ve patients with AL amyloidosis and cardiac dysfunction. Patients will be randomized on a 1:1 basis to receive 24 mg/kg of NEOD001 or placebo via intravenous infusion every 28 days, with both groups receiving concurrent standard of care therapy. 

The composite primary endpoint is event-based, with all-cause mortality or cardiac hospitalizations as qualifying events. Secondary endpoints of the study include evaluation of cardiac response as assessed by changes in the functional biomarker NT-proBNP, renal response as assessed by changes in the functional biomarker proteinuria, six-minute walk test, and multiple quality of life evaluations including the Short Form-36 and the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire. Prothena designed the study with 90% power to detect a 30% change in the event rate between the treatment and placebo groups with a two-sided alpha of 0.05. 

In October 2015, Prothena announced plans to initiate PRONTO, a Phase 2b global, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial for NEOD001 in previously-treated patients with AL amyloidosis and persistent cardiac dysfunction. PRONTO is designed to enroll approximately 100 patients with a primary diagnosis of AL amyloidosis and persistent cardiac dysfunction despite previous treatment with off-label, plasma cell directed therapy. Patients will be randomized on a 1:1 basis to receive 24 mg/kg of NEOD001 or placebo via intravenous infusion every 28 days. 

The primary endpoint is cardiac best response as assessed by NT-proBNP measured over 12 months. Secondary endpoints include evaluations of Short Form-36, six-minute walk test, and renal response as assessed by proteinuria. Prothena designed the study with 80% power to detect an absolute difference of 26.5% in NT-proBNP best response rate between the treatment and placebo groups with a two-sided alpha of 0.05. 

Cardiac and Renal Biomarker Responses in Phase 1/2 Multiple Ascending Dose Trial 

The VITAL Amyloidosis Study and PRONTO were initiated based on positive interim data from the ongoing Phase 1/2 multiple ascending dose clinical trial. Data from a February 28, 2015 interim assessment of the ongoing Phase 1/2 clinical trial were reported in oral presentations at both the 2015 American Society for Clinical Oncology Annual Meeting (ASCO) and the 20th Congress of the European Hematology Association (EHA). 

In June 2015, we reported results from the ongoing Phase 1/2 study that showed 8 of 14 cardiac-evaluable patients (57.1%) treated with NEOD001 demonstrated a cardiac response, defined as more than 30% and 300 pg/mL decrease in levels of NT-proBNP from baseline and the remaining 6 patients (42.9%) achieved stable disease. Also, additional monthly infusions of NEOD001 were significantly correlated with NT-proBNP decline (p &#60; 0.0001). Cardiac responders, on average, showed more NT-proBNP decline with added monthly NEOD001 infusions. The 57.1% cardiac best response rate compares favorably with the expected cardiac best response rate of a 26.5% from historical data in patients treated solely with off-label standard of care (Comenzo, et al., Leukemia. 2012;26:2317-2325). NT-proBNP is a validated cardiac biomarker associated with mortality in patients with AL amyloidosis. As noted in numerous peer-reviewed publications, increasing levels of NT-proBNP predicts higher mortality rates in patients with AL amyloidosis. Conversely, decreasing levels of NT-proBNP following interventional treatment predicts lower mortality rates. 

In a best response analysis of renal-evaluable patients treated with NEOD001, 9 of 15 renal-evaluable patients (60.0%) treated with NEOD001 demonstrated a response, defined as more than 30% decrease in proteinuria in the absence of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) worsening, and the remaining 6 patients (40.0%) achieved stable disease. The 60.0% renal response rate compares favorably with the expected renal best response rate of an approximately 24% from historical data in patients treated solely with off-label standard of care (Palladini, et al., Blood. 2014 124: 2325-2332). Increased levels of proteinuria and decreased eGFR predicts faster progression to dialysis where decreased levels of proteinuria and increased eGFR predicts delayed time to dialysis. 

Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Immunogenicity 

Data from the Phase 1/2 study continued to demonstrate that monthly infusions (every 28 days) of NEOD001 were safe and well-tolerated in patients with AL amyloidosis and persistent organ dysfunction. An interim analysis on February 28, 2015 showed that a total of 27 patients in seven dosing cohorts received 327 infusions, with a median treatment duration of 12 months. No hypersensitivity reactions or drug-related serious adverse events were reported and no anti-NEOD001 antibodies were detected. NEOD001 also continued to demonstrate excellent pharmacokinetic properties, supporting a dose level of 24 mg/kg administered every 28 days. The most frequently reported treatment-emergent adverse events of those occurring in more than 10% of subjects were fatigue, upper respiratory tract infection, cough, dyspnea, headache, anemia, increased blood creatinine, edema, diarrhea, nausea and hyponatremia. No dose limiting toxicities were observed and no patient discontinued treatment due to drug-related adverse events. All patients remaining in the study remained at or escalated to 24 mg/kg as of December 2014. 

Expansion Cohort of Phase 1/2 Study 

Concurrent with The VITAL Amyloidosis Study, we have enrolled an additional 42 patients, with AL amyloidosis and selected persistent organ dysfunction, in an open-label expansion portion of the Phase 1/2 trial. We have enrolled 15 patients with cardiac dysfunction, 16 patients with renal dysfunction and 11 patients with peripheral neuropathy, all of whom are eligible to receive 24 mg/kg intravenously every 28 days. The expansion phase will continue to evaluate safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity of NEOD001 as well as the specific clinical activity against cardiac, renal and neuropathy endpoints. 

PRX002 for Parkinson&#8217;s Disease 

In December 2013, we entered into a License, Development, and Commercialization Agreement (the "License Agreement&#8221;) with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (collectively, &#8220;Roche&#8221;) to develop and commercialize certain antibodies that target &#945;- synuclein, including PRX002. Together with Roche, we aim to develop PRX002 as a disease-modifying treatment for Parkinson&#8217;s disease and potentially other synucleinopathies. For more information on the License Agreement, see the information below. 

&#945;- synuclein is found extensively in neurons and is a major component of pathological inclusions that characterize several neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson&#8217;s disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and multiple system atrophy, which collectively are termed synucleinopathies. While the normal function of &#945;- synuclein is not well understood, the protein normally occurs in a soluble form. In synucleinopathies, the &#945;- synuclein protein can misfold and aggregate to form soluble aggregates and insoluble fibrils that contribute to the pathology of the disease. 

There is genetic evidence for a causal role of synuclein in Parkinson&#8217;s disease. In rare cases of familial forms of Parkinson&#8217;s disease, there are mutations in the synuclein protein sequence, or duplication and triplications of the relevant gene leading to high levels of &#945;- synuclein production, which may cause &#945;- synuclein protein to form amyloid-like fibrils that contribute to the disease. There is also increasing evidence that this disease-causing &#945;- synuclein can be propagated and transmitted from neuron to neuron, resulting in an infection-like spread of neuronal death. Recent studies in cellular and animal models suggest that the spread of &#945;- synuclein-associated neurodegeneration can be disrupted by targeting aberrant forms of &#945;-synuclein. 

Parkinson&#8217;s disease is a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system that affects approximately seven to ten million people worldwide, making it the second most common neurodegenerative disease after Alzheimer's. Current treatments for Parkinson&#8217;s disease are primarily directed at managing the early motor symptoms of the disease, mainly through the use of levodopa and dopamine agonists. As the disease progresses and dopaminergic neurons continue to be lost, these drugs eventually become less effective at treating the symptoms. The goal of our approach is to slow the progressive neurodegenerative consequences of disease, a current unmet need. PRX002 targets &#945;- synuclein and may slow or reduce the neurodegeneration associated with synuclein misfolding and/or transmission. 

Clinical Development Program for PRX002 

During 2014, together with Roche, we advanced PRX002 into clinical development with the initiation of two Phase 1 studies. The first study, a Phase 1 double-blind, placebo-controlled, single ascending dose trial, enrolled 40 healthy volunteers, all of which were randomized 3:1 into five escalating dose cohorts (0.3 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg, 3 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg or 30 mg/kg) to receive a single dose of PRX002 or placebo. 

Results of the Phase 1 single ascending dose study were presented in June 2015 as part of the late breaking session at the 19 th &#32;International Congress of Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders. The data demonstrated that PRX002 was safe and well-tolerated in healthy volunteers, meeting the primary objective of the study. Further, results from this study showed that administration of PRX002 led to a mean reduction of free serum &#945;- synuclein levels of up to 96%. These overall results were highly statistically significant (p &#60; 0.00001). Reduction of free serum &#945;-synuclein, a protein potentially involved in the onset and progression of Parkinson's disease and the target of PRX002, was shown to be robust, rapid, and dose- and time-dependent after a single dose. 

No serious adverse events or hypersensitivity reactions were reported. PRX002 demonstrated favorable pharmacokinetic properties. Treatment-emergent adverse events reported in greater than 5% of subjects were vessel puncture site pain, headache, viral infection, nausea, neutropenia, upper respiratory infection and pruritus. All PRX002-related adverse events were mild and no dose limiting toxicities were observed. No anti-drug antibodies were detected. 

In addition, we are currently enrolling patients with Parkinson&#8217;s disease in a Phase 1 multiple ascending dose study. The Phase 1 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of PRX002 is expected to enroll up to 80 patients with Parkinson's disease at multiple centers across the U.S. and is designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity of PRX002. The multiple ascending dose study will also evaluate multiple clinical and exploratory biomarker endpoints. Patients will be enrolled in escalating dose cohorts of PRX002 or placebo and will be observed for up to six months. In January 2016, we added an additional dose level cohort to the ongoing Phase 1 multiple ascending dose trial of PRX002 in patients with Parkinson&#8217;s disease. The decision to add an additional cohort of patients, dosed at 60 mg/kg, made jointly with Roche, is intended to inform the design and dosing levels of future PRX002 clinical studies, and was based in part on the safety and tolerability profile of 

PRX002 at lower dose levels. This study will remain blinded to us until completion of the study, which we expect to occur following completion of the 60 mg/kg dose cohort follow-up period. 

Prior to initiating clinical trials, we tested the efficacy of PRX002 in various cellular and animal models of &#945;- synuclein-related disease. In transgenic mouse models of Parkinson&#8217;s disease, passive immunization with 9E4, the murine version of PRX002, reduced the appearance of &#945;- synuclein pathology, protected synapses and improved performance by the mice in behavioral testing. 

License, Development, and Commercialization Agreement with Roche 

In December 2013, we entered into the License Agreement with Roche to develop and commercialize certain antibodies that target &#945;- synuclein, including PRX002, which are referred to in this report collectively as &#8220;Licensed Products.&#8221; The License Agreement became effective following the expiration of the applicable Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period on January 17, 2014, which triggered an upfront payment to us of $30.0 million from Roche, which we received in February 2014. 

Pursuant to the License Agreement, we are collaborating with Roche to research and develop antibody products targeting &#945;- synuclein. Roche is providing funding for this research collaboration, which is focused on optimizing early stage antibodies targeting &#945;- synuclein, potentially including incorporation of Roche&#8217;s proprietary Brain Shuttle&#8482; technology to increase delivery of therapeutic antibodies to the brain. Roche is primarily responsible for developing, obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for, and commercializing Licensed Products under the collaboration including PRX002. Roche will also become responsible for the clinical and commercial manufacture and supply of Licensed Products within a defined time period following the effective date of the License Agreement. 

In addition to the $30.0 million upfront payment and a clinical milestone payment of $15.0 million paid in 2014, Roche is also obligated to pay: 

&#8226; up to $380.0 million upon the achievement of development, regulatory and various first commercial sales milestones; 

&#8226; up to an additional $175.0 million in ex-U.S. commercial sales milestones; and 

&#8226; tiered, high single-digit to high double-digit royalties in the teens on ex-U.S. annual net sales, subject to certain adjustments. 

In the U.S., Prothena and Roche will share all development and commercialization costs, as well as profits, all of which will be allocated 70% to Roche and 30% to us, for PRX002 in the Parkinson&#8217;s disease indication, as well as any other licensed products and/or indications for which we opt in to co-develop and co-fund. We may opt out of the co-development and cost and profit sharing on any co-developed licensed products and instead receive U.S. commercial sales milestones totaling up to $155.0 million and tiered, single-digit to high double-digit royalties in the teens based on U.S. annual net sales, subject to certain adjustments, with respect to the applicable licensed product. In addition, we have an option under the License Agreement to co-promote PRX002 in the U.S. in the Parkinson&#8217;s disease indication. If we exercise such option, we may also elect to co-promote additional licensed products in the U.S. approved for Parkinson&#8217;s disease or other indications calling on the same prescriber. Outside the U.S., Roche will have responsibility for developing and commercializing the licensed products. 

Under the License Agreement with Roche, we granted to Roche an exclusive, worldwide license to develop, make, have made, use, sell, offer to sell, import and export the Licensed Products. The License Agreement continues on a country-by-country basis until the expiration of all payment obligations thereunder. The License Agreement may also be terminated (i) by Roche at will after the first anniversary of the effective date of the License Agreement, either in its entirety or on a Licensed Product-by-Licensed Product basis, upon 90 days&#8217; prior written notice to us prior to first commercial sale and 180 days&#8217; prior written notice to us after first commercial sale, (ii) by either party, either in its entirety or on a Licensed Product-by-Licensed Product or region-by-region basis, upon written notice in connection with a material breach uncured 90 days after initial written notice, and (iii) by either party, in its entirety, upon insolvency of the other party. The License Agreement may be terminated by either party on a patent-by-patent and country-by-country basis if the other party challenges a given patent in a given country. Our rights to co-develop licensed products under the License Agreement will terminate if we commence certain studies for certain types of competitive products. Our rights to co-promote licensed products under the License Agreement will terminate if we commence a Phase 3 study for such competitive products. 

PRX003 for Inflammatory Diseases Including Psoriasis 

We are developing PRX003, a monoclonal antibody targeting melanoma cell adhesion molecule (MCAM) for the potential treatment of inflammatory diseases including psoriasis. 

Within the immune system, white blood cells play an important role. T-cells are a subset of white blood cells that express either CD4 glycoprotein (CD4+) or CD8 glycoprotein (CD8+) on their surface. CD4+ T-cells are called &#8220;helper&#8221; cells as they do not neutralize the infection, but rather initiate the body&#8217;s response to infections. Th17 cells are a subset of CD4+ T-cells characterized by the production of IL-17, and are known to be key participants in inflammatory reactions and various autoimmune diseases. 

MCAM is a cell adhesion molecule that allows certain cells traveling in the bloodstream to leave the circulation and enter tissues. MCAM is expressed on pathogenic Th17 immune cells. These immune cells are believed to underlie many inflammatory diseases. MCAM functions like VELCRO&#8482; hook-and-loop fasteners, allowing these cells to stick to the blood vessel wall, so that they can migrate into the surrounding tissues to initiate and/or maintain their pathogenic process. 

Our research in the area of cell adhesion has uncovered unique insights into MCAM function, allowing us to develop specific and novel antibodies that block MCAM&#8217;s VELCRO TM &#8211; like function and may serve as therapeutics to prevent disease causing cells from spreading into tissue. 

Autoimmune and/or autoinflammatory diseases arise from the body&#8217;s inappropriate immune response against substances and tissues normally present in the body. In other words, the immune system mistakes some part of the body as a foreign pathogen and attacks its own cells. A substantial portion of the population suffers from these diseases, which are often chronic, debilitating, and life-threatening. Anti-MCAM antibodies may be useful for treating a variety of inflammatory diseases such as psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, sarcoidosis, uveitis, and Behcet&#8217;s disease. 

Current treatment for many types of inflammatory diseases may entail the use of broad acting immunosuppressive agents that weaken the body&#8217;s ability to fight infection. Only 3 to 5% of CD4+ T-cells in the circulation express MCAM, yet these cells appear to be disproportionately involved in the propagation of inflammatory diseases. Hence, anti-MCAM based therapy may provide a more specific approach to target the disease-causing immune cells while not interfering with normal function of the majority of the immune system. 

The monoclonal antibodies we have generated that selectively block MCAM-mediated cell adhesion have been shown in a mouse model of inflammation to delay relapse and severity of relapse. 

Our strategy is to pursue psoriasis initially to allow for potential rapid feedback on the biological activity of our therapeutic agent and establish a solid clinical foundation to inform our decisions as we explore the full development potential of this antibody in psoriasis and other orphan and/or inflammatory indications. We may elect to license or partner PRX003 for disease areas that would require larger clinical trials and investment. 

Preclinical program in TTR Amyloidosis 

Transthyretin (TTR)-mediated amyloidosis (ATTR) is a rare, progressively debilitating, and sometimes fatal disease characterized by deposition of amyloid. There are three types of ATTR amyloidosis: familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP); familial amyloid cardiomyopathy (FAC); and wild-type (or senile systemic) amyloidosis. FAP and FAC are hereditary and can occur concurrently, whereas wild-type amyloidosis is not hereditary and does not cause neuropathy. 

TTR protein is produced primarily in the liver and its normal tetrameric confirmation serves as a carrier for thyroxin and retinol binding protein bound to retinol. In hereditary ATTR amyloidosis (FAP and FAC) the body makes a mutant form of a TTR protein. There are more than 100 reported types of TTR mutations that promote amyloid fibril formation, which most commonly affect the heart and nervous system. Wild-type ATTR amyloidosis is similar to hereditary TTR except that the protein that is deposited is the misfolded, non-mutated transthyretin protein. The wild-type transthyretin protein is less prone to forming amyloid deposits than the mutated form and patients usually develop the disease at 65 years of age or older. 

Prothena has generated monoclonal antibodies that selectively bind to amyloidogenic (diseased) forms of the transthyretin (ATTR) protein. Preclinical data presented in November 2015 at the First European Congress on Hereditary TTR Amyloidosis 

suggest that Prothena's antibodies have unique biological activity that may lead to the prevention of deposition, and enhancement of clearance, of ATTR in patients with both wild type and hereditary TTR-mediated amyloidosis. 

Our Discovery Programs 

Our pipeline also includes late discovery-stage programs for which we are testing the efficacy of antibodies in preclinical models of diseases related to amyloid or cell adhesion. If promising, we expect that these antibodies will advance to preclinical development. New target discovery will focus on the potential treatment of orphan indications involving protein misfolding or cell-adhesion where we can bring these therapies to patients expeditiously through our internal expertise and resources. Existing late discovery-stage programs with non-orphan indications may be partnered or out-licensed. 

Regulation 

We anticipate that if we commercialize any products, the U.S. market will be our most important market. For this reason, the laws and regulations discussed below focus on the requirements applicable to biologic products in the U.S. 

Government Regulation 

Governmental authorities, including the FDA, the EMA and comparable regulatory authorities in other countries, regulate the design, development, testing, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion and marketing of pharmaceutical products, including biologics. The FDA does so under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and its implementing regulations, and the Public Health Service Act and its implementing regulations. Non-compliance with applicable requirements can result in fines and other judicially imposed sanctions, including product seizures, import restrictions, injunctive actions and criminal prosecutions of both companies and individuals. In addition, administrative remedies can involve requests to recall violative products; the refusal of the government to enter into supply contracts; or the refusal to approve pending product approval applications until manufacturing or other alleged deficiencies are brought into compliance. The FDA and other comparable regulatory authorities also have the authority to cause the withdrawal of approval of a marketed product or to impose labeling restrictions. 

The pricing of pharmaceutical products is regulated in many countries and the mechanism of price regulation varies. In the U.S., while there are limited indirect federal government price controls over private sector purchases of drugs, it is not possible to predict future regulatory action or private sector initiatives on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. 

Product Approval 

United States. In the U.S., our drug candidates are regulated as biologic pharmaceuticals, or biologics. The FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act, Public Health Safety Act and its implementing regulations. Biologics are also subject to other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. The process required by the FDA before biologic product candidates may be marketed in the U.S. generally involves the following: 

&#8226; 

submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin and must be updated annually; 

&#8226; 

completion of extensive preclinical laboratory tests and preclinical animal studies, all performed in accordance with the FDA&#8217;s Good Laboratory Practice ("GLP") regulations; 

&#8226; 

performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for each proposed indication, all performed in accordance with FDA&#8217;s current good clinical practices ("cGCP") regulations; 

&#8226; 

submission to the FDA of a BLA for a new biologic, after completion of all pivotal clinical trials; 

&#8226; 

satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facilities at which the product is produced and tested to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices ("cGMP") regulations; and 

&#8226; 

FDA review and approval of a BLA for a new biologic, prior to any commercial marketing or sale of the product in the U.S. 

Preclinical tests assess the potential safety and efficacy of a product candidate in in vitro and/or in vivo models. The results of these studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND before human testing may proceed. An IND is a request for authorization from the FDA to administer an investigational drug or biologic product to humans. The central focus of an IND submission is on the general investigational plan and the protocol(s) for human studies. The IND also includes results of animal studies or other human studies, as appropriate, as well as manufacturing information, analytical data and any available clinical data or literature to support the use of the investigational new drug. An IND must become effective before human clinical trials 

may begin. An IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to the proposed clinical trials. In such a case, the IND may be placed on clinical hold and the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns or questions before clinical trials can begin. Accordingly, submission of an IND may or may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with cGCPs, which include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent for their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Additionally, approval must also be obtained from each clinical trial site&#8217;s Institutional Review Board ("IRB") before the trials may be initiated, and the IRB must monitor the study until completed. There are also requirements governing the reporting of ongoing clinical trials and clinical trial results to public registries. 

The clinical investigation of a pharmaceutical, including a biologic, is generally divided into three phases. Although the phases are usually conducted sequentially, they may overlap or be combined. The three phases of an investigation are as follows: 

&#8226; Phase 1. Phase 1 includes the initial introduction of an investigational product into humans. Phase 1 clinical trials are typically closely monitored and may be conducted in patients with the target disease or condition or in healthy volunteers. These studies are designed to evaluate the safety, dosage tolerance, metabolism and pharmacologic actions of the investigational product in humans, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. During Phase 1 clinical trials, sufficient information about the investigational product&#8217;s pharmacokinetics and pharmacological effects may be obtained to permit the design of well-controlled and scientifically valid Phase 2 clinical trials. The total number of participants included in Phase 1 clinical trials varies, but is generally in the range of 20 to 80; 

&#8226; Phase 2. Phase 2 includes controlled clinical trials conducted to preliminarily or further evaluate the effectiveness of the investigational product for a particular indication(s) in patients with the disease or condition under study, to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, and to identify possible adverse side effects and safety risks associated with the product. Phase 2 clinical trials are typically well-controlled, closely monitored, and conducted in a limited patient population, usually involving no more than several hundred participants; and 

&#8226; Phase 3. Phase 3 clinical trials are generally controlled clinical trials conducted in an expanded patient population generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. They are performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of the product has been obtained, and are intended to further evaluate dosage, clinical effectiveness and safety, to establish the overall benefit-risk relationship of the investigational product, and to provide an adequate basis for product approval. Phase 3 clinical trials usually involve several hundred to several thousand participants. 

The clinical trial process can take three to ten years or more to complete, and there can be no assurance that the data collected will support FDA approval of the product. The FDA may place clinical trials on hold at any point in this process if, among other reasons, it concludes that clinical subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Trials may also be terminated by IRBs, which must review and approve all research involving human subjects. Side effects or adverse events that are reported during clinical trials can delay, impede or prevent marketing authorization. 

The results of the preclinical and clinical testing, along with information regarding the manufacturing of the product and proposed product labeling, are evaluated and, if determined appropriate, submitted to the FDA through a BLA. The application includes all relevant data available from pertinent preclinical and clinical trials, including negative or ambiguous results as well as positive findings, together with detailed information relating to the product&#8217;s chemistry, manufacturing, controls and proposed labeling, among other things. Data can come from company-sponsored clinical trials intended to test the safety and effectiveness of a use of a product, or from a number of alternative sources, including studies initiated by investigators. 

Once the BLA submission has been accepted for filing, the FDA&#8217;s standard goal is to review applications within ten months of the filing date or, in the case of Priority Review, six months from the filing date. The review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. The FDA reviews the BLA to determine, among other things, whether the proposed product is safe, pure and potent, which includes determining whether it is effective for its intended use, and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with cGMP, to assure and preserve the product&#8217;s identity, strength, quality, potency and purity. The FDA may refer the application to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it typically follows such recommendations. 

The FDA has four program designations - Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy, Accelerated Approval and Priority Review - to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. The Fast Track designation provides pharmaceutical manufacturers with opportunities for frequent interactions with FDA reviewers during the product&#8217;s development and the ability for the manufacturer to do a rolling submission of the BLA. A rolling submission allows completed portions of the application to be submitted and reviewed by the FDA on an ongoing basis. The Breakthrough Therapy designation provides manufacturers with all of the features of the Fast Track designation as well as intensive guidance on implementing an efficient development program for the product and a commitment by the FDA to involve senior managers and experienced review staff in the review. The Accelerated Approval designation allows the FDA to approve a product based on an effect on a surrogate or intermediate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a product&#8217;s clinical benefit and generally requires the manufacturer to conduct required post-approval confirmatory trials to verify the clinical benefit. The Priority Review designation means that the FDA&#8217;s goal is to take action on the BLA within six months, compared to ten months under standard review. 

After the FDA evaluates the BLA and conducts inspections of manufacturing facilities where the candidate product and/or its API will be produced, it may issue an approval letter or a Complete Response Letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the biologic with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A Complete Response Letter indicates that the review cycle of the application is complete and the application is not ready for approval. A Complete Response Letter may require additional clinical data and/or an additional pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial(s), and/or other significant, expensive and time-consuming requirements related to clinical trials, preclinical studies or manufacturing. Even if such additional information is submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the BLA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. The FDA could approve the BLA with a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ("REMS") plan to mitigate risks, which could include medication guides, physician communication plans, or elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. The FDA also may condition approval on, among other things, changes to proposed labeling, development of adequate controls and specifications, or a commitment to conduct one or more post-market studies or clinical trials. Such post- market testing may include Phase 4 clinical trials and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product&#8217;s safety and effectiveness after commercialization. 

There can be no marketing in the U.S. of a biologic until a BLA has been submitted and approved by the FDA. Until an application is actually approved, there can be no assurance that the information requested and submitted will be considered adequate by the FDA. 

European Union . In Europe, there are several tracks for marketing approval, depending on the type of product for which approval is sought. Under the centralized procedure, a company submits a single application to the EMA. The marketing application is similar to the NDA or BLA in the U.S. and is evaluated by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (the "CHMP"), the expert scientific committee of the EMA. If the CHMP determines that the marketing application fulfills the requirements for quality, safety, and efficacy, it will submit a favorable opinion to the European Commission (the "EC"). The CHMP opinion is not binding, but is typically adopted by the EC. A marketing application approved by the EC is valid in all member states. 

In addition to the centralized procedure, the EC also has: (i) a nationalized procedure, which requires a separate application to and approval determination by each country; (ii) a decentralized procedure, whereby applicants submit identical applications to several countries and receive simultaneous approval; and (iii) a mutual recognition procedure, where applicants submit an application to one country for review and other countries may accept or reject the initial decision. Regardless of the approval process employed, various parties share responsibilities for the monitoring, detection, and evaluation of adverse events post-approval, including national authorities, the EMA, the EC, and the marketing authorization holder. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Any products manufactured or distributed by us or on our behalf pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including requirements for record-keeping, reporting of adverse experiences with the biologic, and submitting biological product deviation reports to notify the FDA of unanticipated changes in distributed products. Additionally, any significant change in the approved product or in how it is manufactured, including changes in formulation or the site of manufacture, generally require prior FDA approval. The packaging and labeling of all products developed by us are also subject to FDA approval and ongoing regulation. 

Manufacturers are required to register their facilities with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP standards, which impose certain quality processes, manufacturing controls and documentation requirements upon us and our third-party manufacturers in order to ensure that the product is safe, has the identity and strength, and meets the quality, purity and potency characteristics that it purports to have. Certain states also impose requirements on manufacturers and distributors to establish the pedigree of product 

in the chain of distribution, including some states that require manufacturers and others to adopt new technology capable of tracking and tracing product as it moves through the distribution chain. Noncompliance with cGMP or other requirements can result in issuance of warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, seizures, and injunctive action. 

FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon us and any third-party manufacturers that we may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMP and other aspects of regulatory compliance. 

The FDA and other federal and state agencies closely regulate the labeling, marketing and promotion of drugs. While doctors are free to prescribe any product approved by the FDA for any use, a company can only make claims relating to safety and efficacy of a product that are consistent with FDA approval, and the company is allowed to market a drug only for the particular use and treatment approved by the FDA. In addition, any claims we make for our products in advertising or promotion must be appropriately balanced with important safety information and otherwise be adequately substantiated. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in adverse publicity, warning letters, corrective advertising, injunctions, potential civil and criminal penalties, criminal prosecution, and agreements with governmental agencies that materially restrict the manner in which a company promotes or distributes drug products. Government regulators, including the Department of Justice and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, as well as state authorities, recently have increased their scrutiny of the promotion and marketing of drugs. 

The FDA also enforces the requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, which, among other things, imposes various requirements in connection with the distribution of product samples to physicians. Sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act, and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended. We may also be subject to the Physician Payment Sunshine Act (the "Sunshine Act") which regulates disclosure of payments to healthcare professionals and providers. 

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the &#8220;FCPA&#8221;) and U.K. Bribery Act prohibit companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials (and certain private individuals under the U.K. Bribery Act) for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. In many countries, the healthcare professionals we interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the FCPA. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. 

Orphan Drugs 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally defined as a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting a BLA. In the U.S., orphan drug designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as opportunities for grant funding towards clinical trial costs, tax advantages, and user-fee waivers. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the drug and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. The first BLA applicant to receive FDA approval for a particular active ingredient to treat a particular disease with FDA orphan drug designation is entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the U.S. for that product, for that indication. During the seven-year exclusivity period, the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same orphan indication, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan exclusivity or if FDA finds that the holder of the orphan drug exclusivity has not shown that it can assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the orphan drug to meet the needs of patients with the disease or condition for which the drug was designated. As a result, even if one of our drug candidates receives orphan exclusivity, the FDA can still approve other drugs that have a different active ingredient for use in treating the same indication or disease. Furthermore, the FDA can waive orphan exclusivity if we are unable to manufacture sufficient supply of our product. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which our products will be covered by third-party payors, such as federal, state, and foreign government health care programs, commercial insurance and managed healthcare organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly reducing reimbursements for medical products, drugs and services. In addition, the U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have continued implementing cost containment programs, including 

price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost- containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit our net revenue and results. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our drug candidates or a decision by a third-party payor to not cover our drug candidates could reduce physician usage of our products once approved and have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. 

Other Healthcare Laws 

Although we currently do not have any products on the market, if our drug candidates are approved and we begin commercialization, we may be subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Such laws include, without limitation, state and federal anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, false claims, privacy and security and physician sunshine laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including, without limitation, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. 

Intellectual Property 

We seek to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property that we believe is important to our business, including by seeking, maintaining and defending patents. We also rely on trade secrets and know-how to protect our business. We seek licenses from others as appropriate to enhance or maintain our competitive position. 

Our intellectual property is primarily directed to immunological approaches to the treatment of diseases that involve amyloid or cell adhesion, and other proprietary technologies and processes related to our lead product development candidates. 

We own or hold exclusive licenses to a number of issued U.S. patents and pending U.S. patent applications, as well as issued foreign patents and pending Patent Corporation Treaty applications and foreign counterparts. As of December 31, 2015, our patent portfolio included the following patents or patent applications that we own or have exclusively licensed from other parties: 

&#8226; 

Approximately 3 patent families related to AL or AA amyloidosis, including our NEOD001 program; 

&#8226; 

Approximately 12 patent families related to Parkinson&#8217;s disease and other synucleinopathies, including our PRX002 program; 

&#8226; 

Approximately 12 patent families related to inflammatory diseases including psoriasis, including our PRX003 program; and 

&#8226; 

Approximately 12 patent families related to other potential targets of intervention and diseases. 

The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries in which we file, the patent term is 20 years from the date of filing the non-provisional application. In the U.S., a patent&#8217;s term may be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in granting a patent, or may be shortened if a patent is terminally disclaimed over an earlier-filed patent. 

The term of a patent that covers an FDA-approved drug may also be eligible for patent term extension, which permits patent term restoration of a U.S. patent as compensation for the patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. The Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the expiration of the patent. The length of the patent term extension is related to the length of time the drug is under regulatory review. A patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended. Moreover, a patent can only be extended once, and thus, if a single patent is applicable to multiple products, it can only be extended based on one product. Similar provisions are available in Europe and other foreign jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. When possible, depending upon the length of clinical trials and other factors involved in the filing of a BLA, we expect to apply for patent term extensions for patents covering our product candidates and their methods of use. 

The patents referenced above have expiration dates ranging from 2020 through 2036 (excluding any available patent term extensions). 

University of Tennessee License Agreement: Under a License Agreement with the University of Tennessee Research Foundation, we have exclusively licensed from the University of Tennessee its joint ownership interest in certain patents jointly owned with us. Those patents relate to our program targeting amyloidosis. Under that sublicensable, worldwide license, we are required to pay to the University of Tennessee an amount equal to 1% of net sales of any product covered by any licensed patent, plus certain additional payments in the event that all or a portion of the license is sublicensed. To date, we have not paid or incurred any royalties to the University of Tennessee under our agreement. The agreement is effective on a country-by-country basis for the longer of (i) a period of twenty years from the date of execution of the agreement, or (ii) in each country in which a valid claim for any licensed patent or patent application exists, expiration of such valid claim. The agreement will terminate prior to the end of its term if we become insolvent unless the University of Tennessee elects to allow the agreement to remain in effect. The University of Tennessee may terminate the agreement prior to the end of its term upon our failure to make payment under the agreement within 120 days of notice of such failure or upon our material breach of the agreement, which breach has not been cured within 60 days of written notice of such breach. We may terminate the agreement prior to the end of its term if we have paid all amounts due to the University of Tennessee through the effective date of the termination and provide three months&#8217; written notice to the University of Tennessee or upon material breach of the agreement by the University of Tennessee, which breach has not been cured within 60 days of written notice of such breach. 

University of California License Agreement: Under a License Agreement with The Regents of the University of California, we have exclusively licensed from the University of California its joint ownership interest in certain patents jointly owned with us. Those patents relate to our program targeting &#945;- synuclein. Under that sublicensable, worldwide license, we are required to pay to the University of California an amount equal to 1% of net sales of any product covered by any licensed patent, plus certain additional payments for milestones achieved and sublicense revenue. To date, we have not paid or incurred any royalties to the University of California under our agreement. The agreement is effective until the expiration date of the last to expire licensed patent. The obligation to pay royalties continues on a country-by-country basis until the expiration of the last to expire patent containing a valid claim covering the applicable product. The agreement will terminate prior to the end of its term without prior written notice if (i) we, or third parties on our behalf or at our written urging, file a claim including an assertion that any portion of the licensed patents is invalid or unenforceable, or (ii) upon the filing of a petition for relief under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code by or against us as a debtor or alleged debtor. The University of California may terminate the agreement prior to the end of its term upon our default, if we fail to cure the default within 60 days of written notice of such default. We may terminate the agreement prior to the end of its term upon a 90 day written notice to the University of California. 

Elan License Agreement: Under an Amended and Restated Intellectual Property License and Contribution Agreement with Elan and certain of its affiliates, we have exclusively licensed from Elan and those affiliates certain patents and patent applications owned by them, and exclusively sublicensed from Elan and those affiliates certain patents and patent applications owned by Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy. Those licenses are worldwide, fully paid, royalty-free, perpetual and irrevocable, and relate to our program targeting &#945;- synuclein. Subsequent to entering into this Agreement, Elan was acquired by Perrigo Company plc. 

Competition 

The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors consist of major international companies, all of which are larger and have greater financial resources, technical staff, manufacturing, R&#38;D and marketing capabilities than we have. We also compete with smaller research companies and generic drug and biosimilar manufacturers. The degree of competition varies for each of our programs. 

A drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity and thereafter it may be subject to further competition from generic products or biosimilars. Governmental and other pressures toward the dispensing of generic products or biosimilars may rapidly and significantly reduce, slow or reverse the growth, sales and profitability of any product not protected by patents or regulatory exclusivity, and may adversely affect our future results and financial condition. If we successfully discover, develop and commercialize any products, the launch of competitive products, including generic or biosimilar versions of any such products, may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 

Our competitive position depends in part upon our ability to discover and develop innovative and cost-effective new products. If we fail to discover and develop new products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. 

Manufacturing 

We do not own or operate facilities for the manufacture, storage, testing or distribution of preclinical or clinical supplies of any of our drug candidates. We instead contract with and rely on third-parties to manufacture, store, test and distribute all pre-clinical development and clinical supplies of our drug candidates, and we plan to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. 

NEOD001 &#32;- Boehringer Ingelheim Biopharmaceuticals GmbH &#38; Co. KG (&#8220;BI&#8221;) has manufactured and is contracted to continue to manufacture clinical supplies of our drug candidate NEOD001 for our on-going Phase 1/2, Phase 2b and Phase 3 clinical trials. We are dependent on BI to continue to manufacture these clinical supplies. 

We have contracted with Rentschler Biotechnologie GmbH (&#8220;Rentschler&#8221;) to develop the capability to manufacture drug substance for future commercial supply of NEOD001, if we obtain regulatory approval to market NEOD001. The technology transfer from BI to Rentschler, in order for Rentschler to develop that manufacturing capability, is on-going. 

PRX002 - BI manufactured clinical supplies of our drug candidate PRX002 for our completed Phase 1 single ascending dose and on-going multiple ascending dose trials. It is intended that Roche, with whom we are collaborating on development of PRX002, will manufacture clinical supplies for any Phase 2 and subsequent clinical trials. The technology transfer from BI to Roche, in order for Roche to assume that manufacturing, has been completed. 

PRX003 &#32;- BI is our third-party manufacturer of clinical supplies of our drug candidate PRX003. We are dependent on BI to continue to manufacture these clinical supplies. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development expenses totaled $58.4 million , $38.5 million &#32;and $26.1 million &#32;in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. For more information, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#8221; 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 66 &#32;employees, of whom 40 &#32;were engaged in research and development activities and the remainder were working in general and administrative areas. 

Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue 

Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 

Available information 

Our principal executive office is at Adelphi Plaza, Upper George's Street, D&#250;n Laoghaire, Co. Dublin, A96 T927, Ireland, and our telephone number at that address is &#32; 011-353-1-236-2500. We are subject to the information and periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and, in accordance therewith, file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). Such periodic reports, proxy statements and other information are available for inspection and copying at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549 or may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We also post on the Investors page of our website, www.prothena.com, a link to our filings with the SEC, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, which applies to all directors and employees, and the charters of our Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors. Our filings with the SEC are posted on our website and are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Please note that information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, this report. You can also obtain copies of these documents free of charge by writing or telephoning us at: Prothena Corporation plc, Adelphi Plaza, Upper George's Street, D&#250;n Laoghaire, Co. Dublin, A96 T927, Ireland, 011-353-1-236-2500, or through the Investors page of our website. 

