 Item 1. Business 

General 

Formed on May 25, 1993, Camden Property Trust, a Texas real estate investment trust (&#8220;REIT&#8221;), is primarily engaged in the ownership, management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, and construction of multifamily apartment communities. Unless the context requires otherwise, &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; and the &#8220;Company&#8221; refer to Camden Property Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our multifamily apartment communities are referred to as &#8220;communities,&#8221; &#8220;multifamily communities,&#8221; &#8220;properties,&#8221; or &#8220;multifamily properties&#8221; in the following discussion. 

Our corporate offices are located at 11 Greenway Plaza, Suite 2400, Houston, Texas 77046 and our telephone number is (713) 354-2500. Our website is located at www.camdenliving.com. On our website we make available free of charge our annual, quarterly, and current reports, and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). We also make available, free of charge on our website, our Guidelines on Governance, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethical Conduct for Senior Financial Officers, and the charters of each of our Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. Copies are also available, without charge, from Investor Relations, 11 Greenway Plaza, Suite 2400, Houston, Texas 77046. References to our website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through our website, therefore such information should not be considered part of this report. 

Our annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information are electronically filed with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please contact the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the operation of the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

Narrative Description of Business 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned interests in, operated, or were developing 180 &#32;multifamily properties comprised of 62,649 &#32;apartment homes across the United States. Of the 180 &#32;properties, eight &#32;properties were under construction and when completed will consist of a total of 2,857 &#32;apartment homes. We also own land holdings which we may develop into multifamily communities in the future. 

Operating and Business Strategy 

We believe producing consistent earnings growth through property operations, development and acquisitions, achieving market balance, and recycling capital are crucial factors to our success. We rely heavily on our sophisticated property management capabilities and innovative operating strategies to help us maximize the earnings potential of our communities. 

Real Estate Investments and Market Balance. &#32;We believe we are well positioned in our current markets and have the expertise to take advantage of new opportunities as they arise. These capabilities, combined with what we believe is a conservative financial structure, should allow us to concentrate our growth efforts toward selective opportunities to enhance our strategy of having a geographically diverse portfolio of assets which meet the requirements of our residents. 

We continue to operate in our core markets which we believe provides an advantage due to economies of scale. We believe, where possible, it is best to operate with a strong base of properties in order to benefit from the personnel allocation and the market strength associated with managing multiple properties in the same market. However, consistent with our goal of generating sustained earnings growth, we intend to selectively dispose of properties and redeploy capital for various strategic reasons, including if we determine a property cannot meet long-term earnings growth expectations. 

We try to maximize capital appreciation of our properties by investing in markets characterized by conditions favorable to multifamily property appreciation. These markets generally feature the following: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Strong economic growth leading to household formation and job growth, which in turn should support higher demand for our apartments; and 

&#8226; 

An attractive quality of life, which may lead to higher demand and retention for our apartments and allow us to more readily increase rents. 

Subject to market conditions, we intend to continue to seek opportunities to develop, redevelop and acquire existing communities. We also intend to evaluate our operating property and land development portfolio and plan to continue our practice of selective dispositions as market conditions warrant and opportunities arise. 

We expect to strengthen our capital and liquidity positions by continuing to focus on our core fundamentals which we believe are generating positive cash flows from operations, maintaining appropriate debt levels and leverage ratios, and controlling overhead costs. We anticipate meeting our near-term liquidity requirements through a combination of one or more of the following: cash flow generated from operations, draws on our unsecured credit facility or other short-term borrowings, proceeds from property dispositions, the use of debt and equity offerings under our automatic shelf registration statement, equity issued from our at-the-market ("ATM") share offering program, other unsecured borrowings and secured mortgages. 

Sophisticated Property Management . We believe the depth of our organization enables us to deliver quality services, promote resident satisfaction, and retain residents, thereby increasing our operating revenues and reducing our operating expenses. We manage our properties utilizing a staff of professionals and support personnel, including certified property managers, experienced apartment managers and leasing agents, and trained apartment maintenance technicians. Our on-site personnel are trained to deliver high-quality services to our residents, and we strive to motivate our on-site employees through incentive compensation arrangements based upon property operational results, rental rate increases, occupancy levels, and level of new leases and lease renewals achieved. 

Operations. &#32;We believe an intense focus on operations is necessary to realize consistent, sustained earnings growth. Ensuring resident satisfaction, increasing rents as market conditions allow, maximizing rent collections, maintaining property occupancy at optimal levels, and controlling operating costs comprise our principal strategies to maximize property financial results. We believe our web-based property management and revenue management systems strengthen on-site operations and allow us to quickly adjust rental rates as local market conditions change. Lease terms are generally staggered based on vacancy exposure by apartment type so lease expirations are matched to each property's seasonal rental patterns. We generally offer leases ranging from six to fifteen months with individual property marketing plans structured to respond to local market conditions. In addition, we conduct ongoing customer service surveys to help ensure timely response to residents' changing needs and a high level of satisfaction. 

Investments in Joint Ventures. &#32;We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures or partnerships, including limited liability companies, through which we own an indirect economic interest in less than 100% of the community or land owned directly by the joint venture or partnership. We currently have three discretionary investment funds (the &#8220;funds&#8221;), two of which are closed to future investments, and the third of which we formed in March 2015 for future multifamily investments of up to $450 million. See Note 8, &#8220;Investments in Joint Ventures,&#8221; and Note 13, &#8220;Commitments and Contingencies,&#8221; in the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our investments in joint ventures. 

Competition 

There are numerous housing alternatives which compete with our communities in attracting residents. Our properties compete directly with other multifamily properties as well as condominiums and single-family homes which are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our communities are located. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease apartment homes at our present communities or any newly developed or acquired community, as well as in the rents charged. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 1,750 employees, including executive, administrative, and community personnel. Our employee headcount has historically not varied significantly throughout the year. 

Qualification as a Real Estate Investment Trust 

As of December 31, 2015 , we met the qualification of a REIT under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#8220;Code&#8221;). As a result, we, with the exception of our taxable REIT subsidiaries, will not be subject to federal income tax to the extent we continue to meet certain requirements of the Code. 

