 Item 1. Business Overview 

Epizyme is a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and plans to commercialize novel epigenetic therapies for cancer patients. We are leaders in discovering and developing small molecule inhibitors of a class of enzymes known as histone methyltransferases, or HMTs. We are also expanding our development efforts beyond HMTs and are developing small molecule inhibitors of other chromatin modifying proteins, or CMPs. CMPs mediate selective and reversible modifications to chromatin, a complex of chromosomal DNA and histone proteins that controls gene expression. This chromatin remodeling and its resultant control of gene expression are part of a larger regulatory system, commonly referred to as epigenetics. Genetic alterations within CMPs or that indirectly affect CMPs can result in changes to their activity and drive multiple types of cancer, including hematological cancers and solid tumors. We believe that inhibiting altered CMPs presents the opportunity to create, develop and commercialize multiple targeted therapeutics. 

Our lead product candidate, tazemetostat, is a potent and selective inhibitor of the EZH2 HMT, an enzyme that plays an important role in various cancers. In our ongoing phase 1 clinical trial of tazemetostat in patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or NHL, or in patients with advanced solid tumors, tazemetostat has shown meaningful clinical activity as a monotherapy, with an acceptable safety profile, in both NHL and in certain genetically-defined solid tumors. We are currently evaluating tazemetostat in a phase 2 study in adults with relapsed or refractory NHL, and one phase 2 study in adults and one phase 1 study in children with certain genetically-defined solid tumors. In addition, in mid-2016, we plan to initiate clinical trials of tazemetostat in combination with other therapies being used or investigated for the treatment of NHL. The first of these studies will test tazemetostat in combination with R-CHOP, the standard of care front-line combination treatment for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, or DLBCL, an aggressive form of NHL, in front line elderly patients with DLBCL. We plan to initiate this study in the second quarter of 2016. The second of these studies will be conducted in patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL, and will test tazemetostat in combination with either an anti-PD1 antibody or an anti-PDL1 antibody, which represent an important emerging class of biologic therapies and therapeutic candidates that enhance the body&#146;s immune response to cancer, and are commonly referred to as checkpoint inhibitors. We plan to enter into an arrangement with a collaboration partner for this study in the second quarter of 2016 and to initiate this study in mid-2016. In addition, we plan to initiate in the third quarter of 2016 a phase 2 study of tazemetostat in patients with mesothelioma characterized by loss-of-function of BAP1, an enzyme involved in EZH2 regulation. We are continuing to explore in preclinical testing other tumor types that may be sensitive to tazemetostat. 

We own the global development and commercialization rights to tazemetostat outside of Japan. Eisai Co. Ltd, or Eisai, holds the rights to develop and commercialize tazemetostat in Japan, and holds a limited right of first negotiation for the rest of Asia. Tazemetostat is protected by U.S. composition of matter patents, which are expected to expire in 2032. In February 2016, tazemetostat was granted orphan drug designation by the FDA for the treatment of malignant rhabdoid tumors, or MRT. The orphan drug designation applies to INI1-negative MRT as well as SMARCA4-negative malignant rhabdoid tumor of the ovary, or MRTO, also known as small cell carcinoma of the ovary hypercalcemic type, or SCCOHT. 

We have several additional programs in development, including a phase 1 clinical trial of pinometostat, an inhibitor of the DOT1L HMT, for the treatment of children with MLL-r, an acute leukemia with genetic alterations of the MLL gene. Under our collaboration with Celgene Corporation and Celgene RIVOT Ltd., an affiliate of Celgene Corporation, which we collectively refer to as Celgene, we own commercialization rights to pinometostat in the United States and Celgene owns commercialization rights to pinometostat outside the United States. Along with Celgene, we are also investigating in preclinical studies combinations of pinometostat with other targeted therapies for the treatment of adults with MLL-r. 

We have additional small molecule HMT inhibitors that are being developed under our collaborations with Glaxo Group Limited (an affiliate of GlaxoSmithKline), or GSK, and Celgene. Under our collaboration with GSK, GSK 

&#160;

is developing small molecule inhibitors against three novel HMT targets including protein arginine methyltransferase 5, or PRMT5. We discovered these HMT inhibitors using our proprietary drug discovery platform. GSK has worldwide rights to the inhibitors of the three HMT targets that we delivered to them under the collaboration. Under our collaboration with Celgene, we are developing small molecule inhibitors directed to three other HMT targets in addition to pinometostat. Under the collaboration, we are responsible for all preclinical discovery work as well as phase 1 clinical development for all three targets. Celgene has the option to license worldwide rights to inhibitors directed at two of the three targets, and the option to license ex-U.S. rights to inhibitors directed to the third target. We retain rights to develop and commercialize the third target in the United States. Beyond our two clinical stage programs and the partnered programs with GSK and Celgene, we have also identified five novel epigenetic targets for which we are developing small molecule inhibitors in preclinical drug discovery. We own the global development and commercialization rights to these programs. All of our novel targets have been identified internally using our proprietary drug discovery platform, and all of our small molecule inhibitors have been discovered internally. 

Corporate Strategy 

Our goal is to become a fully integrated development and commercial oncology company developing novel epigenetic therapies for cancer patients. We have a robust proprietary drug discovery platform and the demonstrated ability to move candidates into clinical development. As we prepare to commercially launch tazemetostat, if approved, we plan to build out the infrastructure necessary to support the successful launch and marketing of this compound. The key elements of our strategy to achieve this goal are to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Rapidly Advance the Clinical Development of Tazemetostat . We are executing a comprehensive clinical development program of tazemetostat for NHL and certain genetically-defined solid tumors. If we see sufficient evidence of a therapeutic effect in any of these trials, we plan to meet with regulatory authorities to discuss the possibility of an expedited clinical development and regulatory pathway for the applicable program. If sufficiently safe and active in the target patient populations, we believe that tazemetostat may be able to rely on an expedited regulatory approval process. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Seek to Expand the Range of Potential Indications for Tazemetostat . The R-CHOP combination study we are pursuing is designed to investigate the utility of tazemetostat in front line DLBCL, which would expand the potential commercial opportunity for tazemetostat. We also have over two dozen academic collaborations which are investigating the role of tazemetostat in other cancer types in preclinical models. If we see strong preclinical evidence of sensitivity of specific tumors to EZH2 inhibition, and if a medical need exists, we will consider initiating proof of concept human clinical trials. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Establish Commercialization and Marketing Capabilities in the United States . We have retained commercialization rights in the United States for all of our programs, other than the three programs that are the subject of our GSK collaboration and two of the programs that are the subject of our collaboration with Celgene. We plan to retain commercialization rights in the United States and possibly selected foreign jurisdictions in connection with any future oncology collaborations. We intend to build a focused specialty sales force and marketing capabilities to commercialize any of our oncology drugs that receive regulatory approval in the United States, and the capability of leading global commercial strategy. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Use Our Drug Discovery Platform to Build a Pipeline of Proprietary CMP Inhibitors . Using our proprietary drug discovery platform, we are developing additional novel, small molecule inhibitors of CMPs involved in cancer. We currently hold U.S. development and commercialization rights to one of our three preclinical programs subject to Celgene&#146;s option under our collaboration. In addition, we have identified five novel CMP targets against which we are developing small molecule inhibitors in preclinical drug discovery, for which we own all development and commercialization rights. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Leverage Collaborations . Our therapeutic collaborations with Celgene, GSK and Eisai provide us with access to the considerable scientific, development, regulatory and commercial capabilities of our 

&#160;

&#160; collaborators. Our collaborations with Celgene and GSK potentially provide us with significant funding for both our specific development programs and our product platform. We believe that collaborations like these can contribute to our ability to rapidly advance our product candidates, build our product platform and concurrently progress a wide range of discovery and development programs, and may seek to enter into additional therapeutic collaborations in the future. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Develop Companion Diagnostics for Use with Our Therapeutic Product Candidates . We plan to seek to develop companion diagnostics for use in connection with our therapeutic product candidates where appropriate. We believe that this approach may enable us to accelerate the clinical development and regulatory timelines for our therapeutic product candidates and, for any of our therapeutic product candidates that receive marketing approval, improve patient care by identifying patients who are more likely to benefit from the therapy. We intend to develop diagnostics based on currently available diagnostic technologies to the extent possible in order to minimize development and regulatory risk of our diagnostic programs. We are working with Roche Molecular Systems, Inc., or Roche, to develop a companion diagnostic, based on currently available technology, for use with tazemetostat for NHL patients with EZH2 point mutations and are relying on existing laboratory tests for use with pinometostat to identify MLL-r patients. We also plan to develop a companion diagnostic to identify patients with BAP1 loss-of-function for our mesothelioma program. Background 

Cancer is a heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by uncontrolled cell division and growth. Cancerous cells that arise in the lymphatic system and bone marrow are referred to as hematological tumors. Cancer cells that arise in other tissues or organs are referred to as solid tumors. Researchers believe that exposure to some chemicals, viruses and various forms of radiation can cause genetic alterations that cause cancer. Genetic predispositions also can increase the risk of cancer in some people. 

Cancer is the second leading cause of death in the United States, exceeded only by heart disease. The American Cancer Society estimated that in 2016 there will be approximately 1.7 million new cases of cancer and approximately 596,000 deaths from cancer in the United States. 

The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and drug therapy. A cancer patient often receives treatment with a combination of these methods. Surgery and radiation therapy are particularly effective in patients in whom the disease is localized. Physicians generally use systemic drug therapies in situations in which the cancer has spread beyond the primary site or cannot otherwise be treated through surgery. The goal of drug therapy is to damage and kill cancer cells or to interfere with the molecular and cellular processes that control the development, growth and survival of cancer cells. In many cases, drug therapy entails the administration of several different drugs in combination. Over the past several decades, drug therapy has evolved from non-specific drugs that kill both healthy and cancerous cells, to drugs that target specific molecular pathways involved in cancer and more recently to therapeutics that target the specific oncogenic &#147;drivers&#148; of cancer. 

Cytotoxic Chemotherapies. The earliest approach to pharmacological cancer treatment was to develop drugs, referred to as cytotoxic drugs, that kill rapidly proliferating cancer cells through non-specific mechanisms, such as disrupting cell metabolism or causing damage to cellular components required for survival and rapid growth. These drugs include Cytosar-U and Cytoxan. While these drugs have been effective in the treatment of some cancers, many unmet medical needs for the treatment of cancer remain. Also, cytotoxic drug therapies act in an indiscriminate manner, killing healthy as well as cancerous cells. Due to their mechanism of action, many cytotoxic drugs have a narrow dose range above which the toxicity causes unacceptable or even fatal levels of damage and below which the drugs are not effective in eradicating cancer cells. 

Targeted Therapies. Another approach to pharmacological cancer treatment was to develop drugs, referred to as targeted therapeutics, that target specific biological molecules in the human body that play a role in rapid cell 

&#160;

growth and the spread of cancer. Targeted therapeutics include vascular disruptors, also referred to as angiogenesis inhibitors, that prevent the formation of new blood vessels and restrict a tumor&#146;s blood supply. Marketed vascular disruptors include Avastin and Zaltrap. Other targeted therapies, such as Herceptin and Tarceva, affect cellular signaling pathways that are critical for the growth of cancer. These drugs focus on processes that help the cancer cell survive, but not the oncogenes that are the drivers or cause of the cancer itself. 

Anti-Oncogenic Therapies. A more recent approach to pharmacological cancer treatment is to develop drugs that affect the drivers that cause uncontrolled growth of cancer cells because of a specific genetic alteration. In some cases, these agents were identified as therapeutics without knowledge of the underlying genetic change causing the disease. To date, the shortcoming of this approach has been that it is not systematic, but instead often follows a conventional trial and error approach to drug discovery. In this approach, clinical development involves the treatment of large populations from which a defined subpopulation that responds to treatment is identified. As a result, this approach can be time-consuming and costly, with success often uncertain. 

The Epizyme Approach 

We are discovering and developing inhibitors of CMPs as novel precision therapeutics for patients with cancer and other significant unmet medical needs. Our focus is on the discovery, development and eventual commercialization of small molecule inhibitors of CMPs for applications in diseases that are uniquely dependent on the enzyme activity of a specific CMP. Among the CMP target classes, we have a particular emphasis on the HMTs, which have been shown to play pathogenic roles in a number of human diseases. Today, our emphasis is on the development of HMT inhibitors for cancer indications. Beyond cancer, however, HMTs and other CMPs have been implicated as pathogenic drivers of a number of diseases with significant unmet medical need. 

Background of Epigenetics and Chromatin Remodeling. Epigenetics refers to a broad regulatory system that controls gene expression without altering the makeup of the genes themselves. Genes are composed of DNA, and in nature, this DNA is wrapped around a core of proteins known as histones. Together, the DNA and histone proteins form a complex known as chromatin that is the basic structural component of chromosomes. The structure of chromatin at specific gene locations can exist either in an open state that permits gene expression or in a more closed state that silences gene expression. The shifting of gene-specific chromatin structure&#151;from the open to the closed state, or the closed to open state&#151;is referred to as chromatin remodeling. Chromatin remodeling is affected by the reversible placement of small chemical groups&#151;acetyl groups, methyl groups and others&#151;onto specific sites on the DNA and the histone proteins, in concert with enzyme-catalyzed topographical changes to the contacts between DNA and histones. Some CMPs place these chemical groups onto specific sites on histones or DNA, some remove these marks in site-specific ways, others recognize the uniquely marked sites on histones and bind to these marked sites, and still other CMPs drive topographical changes to histone-DNA interactions within chromatin. Where, when and how such chromatin remodeling reactions occur, determines which genes in a cell are turned &#147;on&#148; or &#147;off&#148; at any particular time. When the function of these CMPs is altered, the program of gene expression is changed in ways that often leads to disease. 

Cancer and HMTs. We continue to focus the majority of our discovery efforts on the HMT class of CMPs as targets for cancer therapeutics. The HMT class is particularly attractive for drug therapy for several reasons. First, there are a large number of HMTs in humans&#151;96 in total&#151;because these enzymes are needed to conduct all of the methylation reactions at distinct locations within the histones. As a result, this class provides a large number of potential drug targets. Second, because HMTs regulate gene expression in a precise fashion, they provide the potential for creation of an inhibitor that can have a desired biological effect. Third, genome discovery efforts have demonstrated that the activity of many of the HMTs is changed due to genetic alterations in cancers in such a way as to make the individual cancers strongly dependent on the enzyme activity of specific HMTs, thereby potentially improving the likelihood that an inhibitor will have a therapeutic effect. 

&#160;

While HMTs are a particularly attractive target class of enzymes for drug therapy, in our experience it requires significant effort and scientific knowledge to successfully pursue drug development programs directed at these targets. Key steps in these programs include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; screening cancer genome sequences specifically to identify alterations directly in HMTs or in related pathways; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; defining an oncogenic hypothesis for the affected HMT; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; developing assays to test the oncogenic hypothesis; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; creating and optimizing drug-like molecules to inhibit the selected HMT. Tazemetostat Development Program 

Overview. We are developing tazemetostat, a potent and selective inhibitor of the EZH2 HMT, for the treatment of NHL, certain genetically-defined solid tumors and mesothelioma. The following table summarizes our development program for tazemetostat. 

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

In 2016, we plan to execute on the following clinical development plans for tazemetostat: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Continue to enroll adult patients into all arms of our ongoing international, registration-supporting five-arm phase 2 study in up to 150 patients with NHL, present interim data from the study at a medical conference in mid-2016 and present a second interim analysis at a medical conference in late 2016; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Continue to enroll adult patients into all arms of our ongoing international, registration-supporting phase 2 three-arm study in up to 90 patients with certain genetically-defined solid tumors, and present interim data from the study at a medical conference in late 2016; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Continue to enroll pediatric patients into our ongoing international phase 1 dose escalation and dose expansion study in approximately 40 patients with certain genetically-defined solid tumors; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Present data from the food effect and drug-drug interaction clinical pharmacology sub-studies of the ongoing phase 1 study in relapsed or refractory NHL or advanced solid tumors at a medical conference in the first half of 2016 and present final data from the phase 1 study in the second half of 2016; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Initiate a phase 1b/2 study in combination with R-CHOP in front line elderly patients with DLBCL in the first half of 2016; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Enter into an arrangement with a collaboration partner for a phase 1b study in combination with either an anti-PD1 antibody or an anti-PDL1 antibody in patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL in the second quarter of 2016 and initiate this study in mid-2016; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Initiate a phase 2 study in relapsed or refractory patients with mesothelioma characterized by BAP1 loss-of-function by the third quarter of 2016. Background on Cancers Characterized by Dysregulation of EZH2. EZH2 is an HMT that can become an oncogenic driver for NHL and a variety of other solid tumors, such as MRT, epithelioid sarcoma and MRTO. As a result, EZH2 has become an important target of oncological drug research. 

Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. Two types of NHL, DLBCL of germinal-center origin and follicular lymphoma, or FL, are associated with oncogenic EZH2 mutations. In our preclinical studies, we observed that NHL cells were sensitive to EZH2 inhibitors such as tazemetostat and that NHL cells bearing EZH2 mutations were particularly responsive to such treatment. EZH2 plays a critical role at various stages in normal B-cell maturation, and a particularly critical role during the stage of B-cell development known as the germinal center reaction. Recent research has demonstrated that EZH2 acts as a critical gatekeeper for B-cell maturation and differentiation. Our own ongoing research suggests that it is a combination of stem like cell-of-origin together with specific genetic lesions that confers sensitivity to EZH2 inhibition to cancer cells. An analysis of patient samples with germinal center derived NHL has revealed a number of genetic alterations that impact EZH2 function in ways that may confer sensitivity to EZH2 inhibition. While DLBCL and FL remain the primary target patient populations for tazemetostat, patients with other forms of NHL may also benefit from tazemetostat. Other genetic alterations that may impact EZH2 function have been shown to exist in other forms of NHL and in solid tumors. These alterations include amplification of EZH2 and other PRC2 subunit genes, and loss-of-function mutations in histone acetyltransferases, members of the MLL gene family, the SWI/SNF complex and BAP1, and may confer sensitivity to an EZH2 inhibitor. 

We estimate the annual incidence rate in the major pharmaceutical markets of DLBCL to be approximately 119,000 patients and the annual incidence rate of FL in the major markets to be approximately 36,000 patients. The 119,000 DLBCL patients include 89,000 patients with activated B-cell and non-germinal-center derived NHL and 30,000 patients with germinal-center DLBCL. We estimate that approximately 6,000 of the germinal-center DLBCL patients carry an EZH2 oncogenic point mutation and that approximately 6,000 of the FL patients carry an EZH2 oncogenic point mutation. Many patients with DLBCL and FL survive beyond the year in which they are diagnosed. Accordingly, we believe that the prevalence of DLBCL and FL in the major pharmaceutical markets is significantly higher than the annual incidence of 155,000 patients. Common treatments for both DLBCL and FL are multi-agent chemotherapy, usually combined with rituximab (Rituxan), including R-CHOP 

&#160;

and R-ICE and R-DHAP, along with other rituximab containing chemotherapy regimens, which are more often used as salvage regimens following the failure of front line treatment. R-CHOP and R-DHAP are combinations of the cancer agent rituximab, chemotherapy drugs and a steroid; R-ICE is a combination of rituximab and three chemotherapy drugs. Certain patients with DLBCL may also be treated with an allogeneic stem cell transplant. 

According to published data from GBI Research, the value of the NHL market in the major developed markets is expected to increase to more than $9 billion by 2020. While current therapies successfully treat more than 50% of DLBCL patients in the front line setting, there remains an unmet medical need in patients who have relapsed or are not responding to treatment. According to a review article published in the 2011 American Society of Hematology Education Book, after standard treatment, approximately one-third of DLBCL patients in a population based registry had refractory disease or had suffered a relapse within a median of four years. FL is generally considered to be incurable with existing therapies. 

Genetically- Defined Solid Tumors . INI1 and SMARCA4 are subunits of SWI/SNF, a chromatin modifying protein complex, which opposes the activity of PRC2, the complex within which EZH2 resides. Loss of INI1 or SMARCA4 in specific cell backgrounds is believed to cause dysregulation in the balance between SWI/SNF and PRC2, and thus cause tumors to become sensitive to EZH2 inhibition. This effect was observed in a preclinical study of tazemetostat in a xenograft model of MRT in which tazemetostat caused a dose dependent regression in INI1-negative tumors. INI1-negative tumors can appear in many different tissue types, and can present as MRT, epithelioid sarcoma, extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma, peripheral nerve sheath tumor, myoepithelial carcinoma and renal medullary carcinoma, among several others. SMARCA4-negative tumors can also appear as different tumor types, including MRTO. Synovial sarcoma is characterized by a reciprocal translocation between chromosome 18 and the X chromosome which leads to INI1 dysregulation. 

INI1-negative or certain SMARCA4-negative tumors are typically aggressive cancers with few to no treatments approved for these tumors. For example, current treatment of MRT consists of surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy, which are associated with limited efficacy and significant treatment-related morbidity in this population. INI1-negative tumors are most commonly seen in infants and toddlers, while SMARCA4-negative tumors and synovial sarcoma are most commonly seen in teenagers and young adults. We believe approximately 3,200 new patients with INI1-negative tumors, certain SMARCA4-negative tumors or synovial sarcoma are diagnosed annually in the United States and other major pharmaceutical markets; however, we believe that the actual number may be higher as these types of genetically-defined cancers are significantly under-reported today. MRTO accounts for less than 1% of all ovarian cancer diagnoses, with an average age of 24 years at diagnosis. MRTO is characterized by an aggressive clinical course with two year survival of less than 35%. 

Mesothelioma . Mesothelioma is a rare form of cancer that most typically occurs in the lining surrounding the lungs but can also occur in the lining surrounding other organs. Relapsed or refractory mesothelioma remains an unmet medical need. First line treatment typically includes the chemotherapy drugs cisplatin and pemetrexed (Alimta). Median overall survival after standard of care treatment is approximately 13 months. We estimate the total annual incidence of mesothelioma is approximately 12,000 patients in the major pharmaceutical markets. In an article from 2015 in Pathology , the authors estimated BAP1 loss-of-function to be associated with approximately 46% of mesothelioma. 

Tazemetostat NHL Program. Our ongoing phase 1 study in patients with relapsed or refractory NHL or in patients with advanced solid tumors is being conducted in France, the United Kingdom and Australia. We have completed enrollment in the study with 64 patients. The phase 1 study is comprised of a dose escalation study, a dose expansion study, and two clinical pharmacology studies: a food effect study and a drug-drug interaction study. Interim results from the phase 1 study, including efficacy results for the solid tumor patients, were reported at the European Cancer Congress 2015, or ECC, in Vienna, Austria, on September 26, 2015, and subsequent interim results from the phase 1 study, including efficacy results for the NHL patients, were reported at the 57 th American Society of Hematology Annual Meeting, or ASH, in Orlando, Florida, on December 7, 2015. 

&#160;

The primary objective of the phase 1 study was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of tazemetostat and to determine the recommended dose for phase 2 trials. In the phase 1 trial, tazemetostat is being administered orally as a monotherapy, twice daily in continuous 28-day cycles. In the dose escalation portion of the study, patients were enrolled in one of five dose cohorts at dose levels of 100, 200, 400, 800, or 1600 mg twice daily. In the dose expansion portion of the study, patients received either 800 or 1600 mg twice daily. In the food effect portion of the study, patients received a single 200 mg dose, with or without food, on the eighth day prior to the start of continuous dosing, a single 200 mg dose, with or without food, one day prior to the start of continuous dosing, and 400 mg twice daily, from the start of the continuous dosing phase. 

At ASH, we presented updated data from the phase 1 study, including efficacy data with respect to patients with NHL. All NHL patients were either refractory to or relapsed from prior therapy, which included autologous stem cell transplant in eight of the 21 patients with NHL that were dosed in the study. Of these 21 patients, 18 patients, or 85%, had been treated previously with three or more systemic anti-cancer therapies. As of the November 7, 2015 cutoff date, the following clinical data were reported: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Twenty-one patients with relapsed or refractory NHL were enrolled into the phase 1 study; 16 of the 21 patients were response-evaluable as defined by the study protocol. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Tazemetostat showed activity across different subtypes of NHL, including germinal-center and non-germinal center DLBCL and follicular lymphoma, in patients with wild-type EZH2 and mutant EZH2. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Nine of 16 (56%) response-evaluable NHL patients achieved an objective response. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; On an intent-to-treat basis, seven of 12 (58%) response-evaluable NHL patients treated at or above the recommended phase 2 dose of 800 mg twice daily achieved an objective response. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Four patients remained on study at data cutoff with ongoing objective responses, including three patients who had been on drug for at least 17 months. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The 800 mg twice daily dose showed superior tolerability, equivalent anti-tumor activity and equivalent pharmacodynamic activity as compared to the 1600 mg twice daily dose. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Tazemetostat was well-tolerated. The majority of adverse events were grade 1 or grade 2 within the 55 patients with NHL and solid tumors who were evaluable for safety. The most common adverse events, regardless of attribution, were asthenia, anorexia, thrombocytopenia, nausea, constipation, diarrhea, and vomiting. Four grade 3 or greater treatment-related adverse events have been observed including one each of: grade 3 hypertension, grade 3 liver function test elevation, grade 4 thrombocytopenia, and grade 4 neutropenia. We are conducting a registration-supporting international 150-patient, five-arm phase 2 clinical trial of tazemetostat for the treatment of NHL. Our five-arm phase 2 NHL study is currently being conducted in five countries including France, the United Kingdom and Australia. In addition, in December 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, accepted our Investigational New Drug, or IND, application for tazemetostat for DLBCL, which allows us to expand the treatment of DLBCL patients in the study to sites in the United States. 

Patients in the phase 2 NHL study are stratified into one of five arms: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Germinal center DLBCL, wild-type EZH2, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Germinal center DLBCL, mutant EZH2, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Non-germinal center DLBCL, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Follicular lymphoma, wild-type EZH2, and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Follicular lymphoma, mutant EZH2. Each of these arms will enroll 30 patients subject to an interim futility analysis for each arm. Overall, enrollment in the five-arm phase 2 NHL study is proceeding as expected. Patients are dosed at 800 mg twice daily with 

&#160;

tablets taken orally. To date, based on preliminary response data, we believe we have surpassed futility in three of the five arms, and we have not yet achieved the necessary events to determine futility or non-futility in the other two arms. Definitive futility analyses and assessment will be determined at a later date by an independent data safety monitoring committee. We plan to present interim data from the phase 2 five-arm NHL study at a medical conference in mid-2016. The primary endpoint of the study is overall response rate. Secondary endpoints include duration of response, progression free survival, overall survival, safety and population pharmacokinetics. 

We have entered into an agreement with Roche for the development of a companion diagnostic for use with tazemetostat for NHL patients with EZH2 point mutations, and are using this diagnostic for the screening of patients in the ongoing phase 2 five-arm NHL study. 

Preclinical Studies&#151;NHL. Tazemetostat&#146;s advancement to the clinic is supported by in vitro and in vivo activity in both mutant and wildtype EZH2 NHL. In preclinical studies, EZH2 gain-of-function mutations led to oncogenic repression of gene transcription by accelerating trimethylation of the EZH2 substrate H3K27. Consistent with this mechanism, in vivo mouse studies demonstrated drug efficacy and durability of response in EZH2-mutant NHL models treated with tazemetostat. Our preclinical studies with wild-type EZH2 lymphoma cells suggest that EZH2 acts as a key regulator of B-cell maturation, and that certain genetic lesions that lead to germinal center lymphomas are also likely to depend on EZH2 activity. This hypothesis is supported by cumulative pre-clinical data with EZH2 inhibitors, and pre-clinical models demonstrating synergy of tazemetostat with B-cell signaling inhibitors. 

Tazemetostat Solid Tumor Program. At the ECC, we presented data from our ongoing phase 1 study of tazemetostat in patients with NHL or advanced solid tumors, including efficacy data with respect to patients with solid tumors. As of the data cutoff of August 31, 2015, we had enrolled 30 patients with solid tumors into this ongoing phase 1 study, including eight patients in a food effect sub-study. Of these 30 patients, eight had INI1-negative tumors, comprised of five with MRT and three with epithelioid sarcomas. Additionally, three patients had SMARCA4-negative tumors including two patients with MRTO which is also referred to as small cell carcinoma of the ovary hypercalcemic type, and one patient with thoracic sarcoma. Nineteen patients had other solid tumors that were not characterized by INI1 or SMARCA4 loss, including three patients with synovial sarcomas. More than half of the solid tumor patients were relapsed or refractory and had been treated previously with three or more systemic anti-cancer therapies. As of the August 31, 2015 cutoff date, the following clinical data were reported: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; A total of 11 patients with INI1-negative or SMARCA4-negative tumors have been treated. The tumor histology of these patients includes MRT, MRTO, epithelioid sarcoma and thoracic sarcoma. Nine of these 11 patients have been treated at or above the recommended phase 2 dose of 800 mg twice daily. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Six of the 11 patients experienced a reduction in tumor size as best response, with four patients experiencing tumor reduction of over 30%. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Of the five patients with an INI1-negative malignant rhabdoid tumor, one patient achieved a complete response at week eight and had remained on study and in complete response through week 65. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Of three patients with SMARCA4-negative tumors, two patients presented with MRTO. One MRTO patient achieved a partial response at week 8 and had remained on study through week 25. A second MRTO patient achieved stable disease and had remained on study through week 26. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Of three patients with an INI1-negative epithelioid sarcoma, one patient achieved a partial response of short duration and had remained on study with stable disease through week 25. A second patient had remained on study with stable disease through week 24. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Clinical activity was not observed in the 19 patients with other tumors, including the three patients with synovial sarcomas. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Inhibition of EZH2, as measured by post-treatment H3K27 trimethylation compared to baseline, was observed in tumor tissue of INI1-negative patients as assessed by immunohistochemistry. &#160;

We believe stable disease is a clinically meaningful outcome in this patient population, where in a clinical study of children with rhabdoid tumors, the median survival was less than one year, and in a clinical study of patients with MRTO, the two-year survival rate was less than 35 percent. At the ECC, Dr. Viktor Gr&#252;nwald, professor at the Medical School of Hanover, Germany, reported data from a cooperative study with The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer, demonstrating that for the population of patients with soft tissue sarcoma in the study, stable disease was as good a predictor of overall survival as was a composite of partial and complete responses. 

Our phase 2 study in adults with certain genetically-defined solid tumors and our phase 1 study in children with certain genetically-defined solid tumors are now enrolling patients in the United States, and we expect to expand enrollment in both studies internationally in 2016. 

The adult phase 2 multicenter study in adults with genetically-defined solid tumors will enroll up to 90 patients in three arms. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The first arm will be comprised of patients with MRT, rhabdoid tumor of the kidney and atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor, all of which are characterized by INI1- or SMARCA4-negativity. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The second arm will be comprised of patients with non-rhabdoid INI1-negative tumors including epithelioid sarcoma, epithelioid malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor, extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma, myoepithelial carcinoma and renal medullary carcinoma. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The third arm will be comprised of patients with synovial sarcoma. Patients are dosed at 800 mg twice daily with tablets taken orally. The primary endpoint is overall response rate for patients in the first two cohorts and progression-free survival, or PFS, for patients in the synovial sarcoma cohort. Secondary endpoints include duration of response, overall survival, PFS for patients with INI1-negative tumors, safety and pharmacokinetics. We plan to present interim data from the phase 2 study of tazemetostat in adults with certain genetically-defined solid tumors at a medical conference in late 2016. 

The pediatric phase 1 multicenter study in patients with genetically-defined solid tumors will enroll approximately 40 patients in a dose escalation design, followed by dose expansion, with an oral suspension of tazemetostat. The study will enroll patients with the same INI1-negative tumors, SMARCA4-negative tumors or synovial sarcoma as in the phase 2 adult study. The primary endpoint of the study is safety, with the objective of establishing the recommended phase 2 dose in pediatric patients. Secondary endpoints include pharmacokinetics, objective response rate, duration of response, PFS and overall survival. 

Tazemetostat has been granted orphan drug designation by the FDA for the treatment of MRT. The orphan drug designation applies to INI1-negative MRT as well as SMARCA4-negative MRTO. 

Preclinical Studies&#151;Solid Tumors. In addition to genetic alterations in EZH2 itself, distal genetic changes in other proteins can lead to an oncogenic dependency on EZH2 activity. In preclinical in vitro and in vivo studies tazemetostat has demonstrated utility in the treatment of select INI1-deficient and SMARCA2/A4-deficient tumors, where EZH2 activity is abnormally enhanced due to genetic alterations of the SWItch/Sucrose NonFermentable, or SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex. INI1-deficient tumor types include those with complete INI1 deletion. These include extracranial malignant rhabdoid tumor, atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor, epithelioid sarcomas, epithelioid malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors, extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma, renal medullary carcinoma and myoepithelial carcinomas. Additionally, functional INI1 loss by its displacement from the SWI/SNF complex can occur as a result of an oncogenic fusion protein in synovial sarcoma. SMARCA2 and SMARCA4 are, like INI1, additional subunits of the SWI/SNF complex and are deleted in certain solid tumors, including MRTO. In preclinical studies, MRTO cells demonstrated sensitivity to tazemetostat inhibition. 

Combination Studies and Other Development Plans. In the first half of 2016, we plan to initiate two trials of tazemetostat in combination with other NHL therapies. The first of these trials will be a phase 1b/2 study in front 

&#160;

line elderly patients with DLBCL and will combine tazemetostat with R-CHOP. In preclinical models of NHL, tazemetostat showed synergy with R-CHOP, and in particular with the prednisone component. Our second planned combination study in NHL will be a phase 1b study combining tazemetostat with either an anti-PD1 or anti-PDL1 antibody. Reports from various investigators have suggested that EZH2 inhibition sensitizes tumors to checkpoint inhibition, through enhanced exposure of tumor antigens to the immune system and enhanced chemokine signaling to improve trafficking and infiltration of lymphocytes to the tumor microenvironment. 

In addition, in preclinical studies, tazemetostat showed synergy with a number of different B-cell signaling agents, including inhibitors of the kinases BTK and PI3K, as well as inhibitors of BCL-2, a regulator of apoptosis, or programmed cell death. In 2016, we will continue to evaluate potential new combination studies with tazemetostat, including with a B-cell signaling agent. 

Mesothelioma with EZH2 Disregulation. In the third quarter of 2016, we plan to initiate a phase 2 study of tazemetostat in relapsed or refractory patients with mesothelioma characterized by BAP1 loss-of-function. 

In preclinical studies of mesothelioma, BAP1 loss-of-function led to increased expression and activity of EZH2. In addition, in animal models of mesothelioma, inhibition of EZH2 by a small molecule inhibited growth of tumor cells in mesothelioma characterized by BAP1 loss-of-function. 

Pinometostat&#151;DOT1L Inhibitor 

Overview. We are developing pinometostat as an intravenously administered small molecule inhibitor of DOT1L for the treatment of acute leukemias with alterations in the MLL gene, specifically rearrangements of MLL as a consequence of chromosomal translocation, referred to as MLL-r, which includes partial tandem duplications of the MLL gene, referred to as MLL-PTD. We invented pinometostat using our proprietary product platform. 

In 2014, we initiated a phase 1 trial of pinometostat in pediatric patients with MLL-r. This phase 1 study is enrolling pediatric patients with MLL-r acute leukemia and contains a dose escalation and an expansion cohort that are designed to enable us to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of escalating doses of pinometostat in patients between the ages of three months and 18 years. This trial is also designed to provide a preliminary assessment of efficacy. We intend to complete enrollment in our ongoing phase 1 clinical trial of pinometostat in pediatric MLL-r patients and present preliminary results from this study at a medical conference in the second half of 2016. 

In August 2015, we voluntarily ceased patient enrollment in our phase 1 study of pinometostat in adult patients with MLL-r due to insufficient efficacy of pinometostat as a monotherapy. However, we and Celgene are exploring in preclinical studies combinations of pinometostat with other anti-cancer agents to enhance pinometostat&#146;s efficacy in the adult MLL-r population. We retain all U.S. rights to pinometostat and have granted Celgene an exclusive license to pinometostat outside of the United States. Pinometostat has been granted orphan drug designation by the FDA and the European Commission for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, and acute lymphoblastic leukemia, or ALL. 

Background on DOT1L Cancers. DOT1L is an HMT that can become oncogenic and cause certain subtypes of acute leukemia, such as MLL-r. 

MLL-r is an aggressive, genetically-defined subtype of two of the most common forms of acute leukemia, ALL and AML. In an article in the journal Blood in December 2002, the authors estimated that the five-year overall survival rate for adult patients with the MLL-r subtype of AML ranges from approximately 5 to 24%. In an article from 2004 in the New England Journal of Medicine , the authors estimated that the five-year event-free survival rate in pediatric patients with the most common MLL-r subtype of ALL is approximately 27%. We estimate the total annual incidence of MLL-r in pediatric patients in the major pharmaceutical markets to be approximately 1,300 patients. Patients with MLL-r are routinely diagnosed using existing technologies that are commonly used in clinical settings. As a result, there is high awareness of MLL-r among oncologists. The 

&#160;

disease predominantly occurs in two different age ranges, an adult population and an infant/pediatric population. While they share a common genetic alteration, the adult disease is frequently a secondary leukemia resulting from prior chemotherapy for a different, unrelated cancer and the childhood disease is of unknown origin. MLL-r is caused by a chromosomal translocation involving the MLL gene. The translocation results in DOT1L being recruited to a specific place in the chromosome where it would not normally be present. As a result, DOT1L causes inappropriate histone methylation at this location, which results in the increased expression of genes involved in causing leukemia. There are no approved therapies specifically indicated for MLL-r. Physicians treat this hematological cancer with therapies approved for other acute leukemia. Patients with AML and ALL typically are treated with intensive multi-agent chemotherapy and high risk patients with ALL and AML who enter remission and have a matched donor often receive an allogeneic stem cell transplant. 

Other Pipeline Programs 

In addition to tazemetostat and pinometostat, we also have a pipeline of small molecule inhibitors in preclinical development that target our other prioritized CMPs. These programs are directed to specific cancers, including both hematological malignancies and solid tumors. 

Under our collaboration with GSK, compounds discovered and optimized by us targeting three HMT&#146;s, including PRMT5, have been provided to GSK for further development. PRMT5 is reported to have a role in diverse cellular processes, including tumorigenesis. PRMT5 overexpression has been observed in cell lines and primary patient samples derived from a number of cancers, including lymphoma, lung cancer, breast cancer and colorectal cancer. We discovered the HMT inhibitors for the three targets, including PRMT5 under the GSK collaboration using our proprietary drug discovery platform and successfully delivered them to GSK. GSK has worldwide rights to the inhibitors of these three HMT targets 

Under our collaboration with Celgene, we are developing small molecule inhibitors directed to three HMT targets, in addition to pinometostat. Under the collaboration, we are responsible for all preclinical discovery work as well as phase 1 clinical development for all three targets. Celgene has the option to acquire worldwide rights to inhibitors directed at two of the three targets, and the option to acquire ex-U.S. rights to inhibitors directed to the third target. We retain rights to develop and commercialize inhibitors directed at the third target in the United States. 

In addition to tazemetostat and our partnered programs, we have ongoing drug discovery programs directed to five other novel CMP targets. We own all development and commercialization rights to these five programs. 

The Epizyme Discovery Platform 

Targeting oncogenic CMPs affords us multiple opportunities to create, develop and commercialize novel, precision therapeutics. To realize the full breadth of this opportunity, we created and continue to expand and enhance our proprietary discovery platform. Our platform aims to optimize the effectiveness of drug discovery and development by creatively addressing four key components of the process: 

Judicious Target Selection . Selection of an appropriate target is a critical and challenging aspect of drug discovery. We are meeting the challenges of target selection with a unique combination of novel, optimized approaches to CRISPR technology, proprietary chemical biology methods and cellular and organismal biology approaches that allow us to rigorously and rapidly test targeting hypotheses. Our selection of a target CMP for drug discovery generally requires five critical elements to be satisfied. The target must: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Be a causal driver of pathogenicity and/or represent a unique vulnerability to therapeutic intervention, thus creating a basis for a wide therapeutic index; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Offer a strategy for patient stratification; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Be amenable to inhibition by a small molecule by virtue of the target&#146;s molecular structure, and small molecule inhibition of the target must be disease modifying; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Address a significant unmet medical need for patients; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Represent a meaningful commercial opportunity. With respect to the first two of these elements, a common approach in drug discovery is to develop a small molecule drug candidate against a target which itself contains a genetic lesion that causes disease. This is exemplified among the CMPs by gain-of-function mutations within the HMT target EZH2 in subsets of germinal center lymphoma patients. However, through our combined CRISPR, cancer biology and chemical biology approaches, we have also revealed previously unrecognized synthetic lethal relationships affecting CMPs, wherein a genetic lesion that occurs at an unrelated gene product (protein) creates a unique dependency of a disease cell on the enzymatic activity of the CMP. This provides a novel approach to developing small molecule drugs that impact genetic lesions that were generally considered not amenable to drug development. For example, we have observed several cases in which pathogenic loss-of-function genetic lesions at one protein creates a unique reliance of a disease state on the enzymatic activity of a seemingly unrelated CMP, which can then be targeted for small molecule drug therapy. One example of this is the way in which INI deletions render certain cells sensitive to EZH2 inhibition. 

Deep Understanding of Target Biochemistry and Biology in the Context of Pathophysiology . Once a target is selected, we invest heavily in understanding the biochemistry and biology of that target in the context of cellular pathophysiology. Knowing how a CMP functions in the cell(s) of interest, details of its catalytic mechanism, which ancillary proteins bind to the target within the cell and impact activity, and its pattern of substrate utilization, all contribute importantly to our ability to create relevant biochemical and cellular assays for compound screening and evaluation. 

Comprehensive Molecular Discovery . We take a broad approach to drug discovery that includes an early emphasis on optimization of compounds by evaluating them against multiple criteria. Rather than focusing exclusively on target potency, we evaluate our chemical leads for a spectrum of pharmacological properties at an early point in the drug discovery process. Compounds are simultaneously optimized for target and cellular potency, drug-target residence time, drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics, or DMPK properties, and oral bioavailability. To accomplish this, we integrate a number of molecular science skill bases, together with biological sciences, to form comprehensive matrix discovery teams. These include: medicinal chemistry, enzymology, structural biology, biochemistry and biophysics and preclinical DMPK. We have also applied of comprehensive molecular discovery approach not only to individual targets, but also to target classes, such as the HMTs, through our cross-screening paradigm. In this manner, every compound designed by our chemists is screened against a large collection of representative enzymes of a target class. As a result, we have created a proprietary library of CMP-targeted compounds that today numbers over 32,000 compounds. We have also facilitated drug discovery by solving the co-crystal structures of over 700 CMPs in complex with our small molecule inhibitors. This has allowed us to develop a deep understanding of target class medicinal chemistry and has resulted in the creation of novel chemical starting points for targeted discovery programs. 

Early Integration of Preclinical and Clinical Development. We involve our preclinical and clinical teams early in the drug discovery process. We engage our clinicians and translational medicine experts during the target selection process to ensure that informed decisions are being made with respect to our five key elements of target selection. These researchers continue to participate in the program matrix teams to ensure early development of cogent approaches to clinical translation and development. For example, a clear understanding of patient population and their needs with respect to route of administration, dosing form, and dosing schedule, informs team decisions with respect to multi-parametric pharmacological optimization of lead compounds. Likewise, preclinical development expertise in chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, and safety assessment are engaged early in the discovery process to ensure successful transition of compounds from discovery through clinical evaluation. 

We believe that our discovery platform provides us with an important competitive advantage in identifying pathogenic CMPs and creating novel precision therapeutics to treat the diseases caused by these CMPs. 

&#160;

Collaborations 

We have entered into three strategic collaborations for our therapeutic programs. These therapeutic collaborations have provided us with $201.6 million in non-equity funding through December 31, 2015. Our Celgene and GSK collaborations also provide us with development co-funding and the potential for significant research, development, regulatory and sales-based milestone payments as well as royalties or profit sharing on net product sales. In addition, we have entered into a collaboration to develop a companion diagnostic with Roche. Key terms of these collaborations are summarized below. 

Celgene 

Overview . In July 2015, we entered into an amendment and restatement of our collaboration and license agreement dated April 2012 with Celgene. Under the original agreement, the Company granted Celgene an exclusive license, for all countries other than the United States, to small molecule HMT inhibitors targeting DOT1L, including pinometostat, and an option, on a target-by-target basis, to exclusively license, for all countries other than the United States, rights to small molecule HMT inhibitors targeting any other HMT targets, excluding EZH2 and targets covered by our collaboration and license agreement dated January 8, 2011 with GSK. Under the original agreement, Celgene&#146;s option was exercisable during an option period that would have expired in July 2015. Under the amended and restated collaboration and license agreement: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Celgene retains its exclusive license to small molecule HMT inhibitors targeting DOT1L, including pinometostat, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Celgene&#146;s option rights have been narrowed to HMT inhibitors targeting three predefined targets (the &#147;Option Targets&#148;), &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The exclusive licenses to HMT inhibitors targeting two of the Option Targets that Celgene may acquire have been expanded to include the United States, with the exclusive license to the third Option Target continuing to be for all countries other than the United States, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Celgene&#146;s option period has been extended for each of the Option Targets and is exercisable at the time of the Company&#146;s IND filing for an HMT inhibitor targeting the applicable Option Target, upon the payment by Celgene at such time of a pre-specified development milestone-based license payment, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Celgene&#146;s license may be maintained beyond the end of phase 1 clinical development for each of the Option Targets, upon payment by Celgene at such time of a pre-specified development milestone-based license payment, and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Our research and development obligations with respect to each Option Target under the amended agreement have been extended for at least an additional three years, subject to Celgene exercising its option with respect to such Option Target at IND filing. Subject to our Opt-Out rights described below, our research and development obligations have been expanded to include the completion of a phase 1 clinical trial as to each Option Target following Celgene&#146;s exercise of its option at IND filing. To date, we have received $75.0 million of upfront payments (including $10.0 million as part of the amended and restated agreement) and $25.0 million from the sale of our series C preferred stock to an affiliate of Celgene, of which $3.0 million was considered a premium and included as collaboration arrangement consideration for a total upfront payment of $78.0 million. In addition, we received a $25.0 million clinical development milestone payment in 2014 and $6.9 million of global development co-funding through December 31, 2015. In addition, we are eligible to earn up to $75.0 million in development milestones and license payments, up to $365.0 million in regulatory milestone payments and up to $170.0 million in sales milestone payments related to the Option Targets. We remain eligible to earn $35.0 million in an additional clinical development milestone payment and up to $100.0 million in regulatory milestone payments related to DOT1L. 

&#160;

We are also eligible to receive royalties as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; As to DOT1L, we retain all product rights in the United States and are eligible to receive royalties at defined percentages ranging from the mid-single digits to the mid-teens on annual net product sales outside of the United States, subject to reductions in specified circumstances; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; As to the Option Target for which Celgene&#146;s option rights do not include the United States, if Celgene exercises its option as to such Option Target, we will retain all product rights in the United States and will be eligible to receive royalties, once an initial threshold of net product sales (for which we will not receive royalties) is exceeded, at defined percentages ranging from the mid-single digits to the low-double digits on net product sales outside of the United States, subject to reductions in specified circumstances; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; As to the other two Option Targets, if Celgene exercises its option as to those Option Targets, we will be eligible to receive royalties, once an initial threshold of net product sales (for which we will not receive royalties) is exceeded, for each such Option Target at defined percentages ranging from the mid-single digits to the low-double digits on net product sales on a worldwide basis, subject to reductions in specified circumstances. For DOT1L and, after Celgene&#146;s payment of the specified IND filing license payment for each Option Target, for each such Option Target, we are responsible for the conduct and funding of phase 1 clinical trials, subject to our right to opt-out of such responsibilities as described below. Celgene may obtain a license to small molecule HMT inhibitors targeting each Option Target at the time of the Company&#146;s IND filing for an HMT inhibitor for such target by exercising its option and paying us a specified license payment. Celgene may maintain its license with respect to an Option Target at the conclusion of the phase 1 clinical trial of the Option Target by paying us a specified additional license payment. If Celgene does not elect to obtain a license during the option exercise period applicable to an Option Target, or to pay the specified IND license payment or end of phase 1 license payment, we will retain worldwide rights to HMT inhibitors directed to the Option Target, other than HMT inhibitors that may be provided by Celgene if the Company were to agree to their introduction into the collaboration. 

Research Obligations. We are primarily responsible for the research strategy under the collaboration. During each applicable option period we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to carry out an agreed research plan for each Option Target, subject to our Opt-Out right described below. For the DOT1L target and each of the Option Targets, we are required to conduct and solely fund development costs of the phase 1 clinical trials for HMT inhibitors directed to such targets, including for pinometostat. After completion of phase 1 development, as to DOT1L and the Option Target for which we retain U.S. rights, Celgene and the Company will equally co-fund global development and each party will solely fund territory-specific development costs for its territory; and, as to the other two Option Targets, after completion of phase 1 development, Celgene will solely fund all development costs on a worldwide basis. 

Governance . Our collaboration with Celgene is guided by (a) a joint research committee, with authority over all activities performed under the research plan with respect to the two Option Targets as to which we granted worldwide rights; (b) a joint development committee, with authority over shared development activities with respect to DOT1L and the Option Target for which we retain U.S. rights; and (c) a joint commercialization committee, with authority over the commercialization of products developed under shared development programs with respect to DOT1L and the Option Target for which we retain U.S. rights. Subject to limitations specified in the amended and restated agreement, if the applicable governance committee is not able to make a decision by consensus and the parties are not able to resolve the issue through escalation to specified senior executive officers of the parties, then (a) prior to Celgene&#146;s exercise of its option, we generally have final decision-making authority over research and development matters with respect to the Option Targets; (b) with respect to DOT1L and any Option Targets for which Celgene has exercised its option, Celgene generally has final decision-making authority over global development matters, including over global activities and related expenses that we are obligated to co-fund, unless we exercise our opt-out right as to such licensed program, and 

&#160;

except that with respect to the Option Target for which we retain U.S. rights, the parties have mutual decision-making authority even after Celgene exercises its option as long as Celgene engages in a competitive development program with respect to such Option Target. Each party has final decision-making authority over commercialization matters in its respective territory. 

Opt-Out Right . On an Option Target-by-Option Target basis, we have the right, in our sole discretion, to opt-out of further participation in any research and/or development activities after completion of the initial research plan and prior to the filing of an IND for an HMT inhibitor directed to the applicable Option Target, or the Pre-IND Opt-Out. Following exercise of a Pre-IND Opt-Out, if Celgene exercises its option as to the Option Target, Celgene will no longer be required, to the extent not already paid, to make the specified IND license payment or end of phase 1 license payment to us, specified sales milestone payments will no longer be payable and all royalties on net product sales of applicable licensed products that become payable to us will be reduced by a specified percentage. Additionally, if Celgene exercises its option as to such Option Target, we are obligated to grant Celgene an exclusive worldwide license to HMT inhibitors directed to the applicable Option Target, even if we would otherwise retain U.S. rights to HMT inhibitors directed to the applicable Option Target. Additionally, on a licensed program-by-licensed program basis, we have the right, in our sole discretion, to opt-out of further participation in and co-funding of development, other than specified costs necessary to complete development activities in process at the time we exercise our opt-out right. We can exercise our licensed program opt-out right at specified times: (a) when the clinical trial stopping rules set forth in a clinical trial protocol for DOT1L or the Option Target for which the we retain U.S. rights dictate that such clinical trial be stopped, or the Post-EOP1 Clinical Opt-Out; or (b) for any or no reason, in a licensed program for DOT1L or the Option Target for which we retain U.S. rights, during specified periods before the scheduled initiation of the first pivotal clinical trial or before the estimated date of filing of the first new drug application for an HMT inhibitor directed to the licensed target or any time after regulatory approval of an HMT inhibitor directed to the licensed target, or the Late Stage Opt-Out. In the event of a Post-EOP1 Clinical Opt-Out, the royalties that become payable to us on net product sales of licensed products directed to DOT1L or the Option Target for which we retain U.S. rights, as applicable, will be reduced by a specified percentage. Following a Post-EOP1 Clinical Opt-Out or a Late Stage Opt-Out, we are no longer required to co-fund global development for the applicable program other than specified costs necessary to complete development activities in process at the time we exercises our opt-out right, and we are obligated to grant Celgene an exclusive license to HMT inhibitors directed to the applicable target in the United States. Following our exercise of a Post-EOP1 Clinical Opt-Out or a Late Stage Opt-Out, if any, we would be eligible to receive specified milestone payments and royalties based on net product sales in the United States of HMT inhibitors directed to the licensed target in the event that Celgene develops and commercializes a product in the United States. 

Exclusivity Restrictions . Subject to exceptions specified in the amended agreement, during the option period, we may not research, develop or commercialize HMT inhibitors directed to DOT1L and the three Option Targets. Subject to exceptions specified in the amended agreement, following each applicable option period, we may not research, develop or commercialize HMT inhibitors directed to DOT1L or any target licensed by Celgene. 

Right of First Negotiation. The amended and restated agreement eliminated the right of first negotiation that we had previously granted to Celgene under the original agreement with respect to business combination transactions that we may desire to pursue with third parties. 

Term and Termination . The amended and restated agreement with Celgene will expire on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis on the date of the expiration of the applicable royalty term with respect to each licensed product in each country and in its entirety upon the expiration of all applicable royalty terms for all licensed products in all countries. The royalty term for each licensed product in each country is the period commencing with first commercial sale of the applicable licensed product in the applicable country and ending on the latest of expiration of specified patent coverage, specified regulatory exclusivity or 15 years following the first commercial sale in the applicable country. Celgene has the right to terminate the amended agreement in its entirety, upon 60 or 120 days&#146; notice depending on the timing of such termination. The amended agreement may also be terminated in its entirety during the option period, and on a licensed target-by-licensed target basis after 

&#160;

the option period, by either Celgene or the Company in the event of a material breach by the other party. The amended agreement may be terminated on a licensed target-by-licensed target basis by either Celgene or us in the event the other party, or an affiliate or sublicensee of the other party, participates or actively assists in a legal challenge to specified patents of the terminating party or in its entirety in the event the other party becomes subject to specified bankruptcy, insolvency or similar circumstances. 

GlaxoSmithKline 

Overview . In January 2011, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with GSK to discover, develop and commercialize novel small molecule HMT inhibitors directed to available targets from our product platform. Under the terms of the agreement, we granted GSK the option to obtain exclusive worldwide license rights to HMT inhibitors directed to three targets. In March 2014, we and GSK amended certain terms of this agreement for the third target, revising the license terms with respect to candidate compounds and amending the corresponding financial terms, including reallocating milestone payments and increasing royalty rates as to the third target. Additionally, as part of the research collaboration provided for in the agreement, we agreed to provide research and development services related to the licensed targets pursuant to agreed upon research plans during a research term that ended January 8, 2015, or earlier if selection of a development candidate occurred. 

Under the agreement, we recorded an upfront payment of $20.0 million and a $3.0 million payment upon the execution of the March 2014 agreement amendment. Through December 31, 2015, we also received $6.0 million of fixed research funding, $15.0 million of preclinical research and development milestone payments and $9.0 million for research and development services. We are eligible to receive up to $18.0 million in additional preclinical research and development milestone payments, up to $109.0 million in clinical development milestone payments, up to $275.0 million in regulatory milestone payments and up to $218.0 million in sales-based milestone payments. In addition, GSK is required to pay us royalties at percentages between the mid-single digits to the low double-digits, on a licensed product-by-licensed product basis, on worldwide net product sales, subject to reductions in specified circumstances. 

For each selected target in the collaboration, we were primarily responsible for research until the earlier of selection of a development candidate for the target or January 8, 2015, and GSK is solely responsible for subsequent development and commercialization. GSK provided a fixed amount of research funding during the second and third years of the research term and was obligated to provide research funding equal to 100.0% of mutually agreed research and development costs, subject to specified limitations, for any research activities we conducted in the fourth year of the research term. In December 2013, we and GSK agreed to the selection of a development candidate for one of the three targets under the agreement, after which point GSK became solely responsible for subsequent development and commercialization. 

Exclusivity Provisions . Subject to exceptions specified in the agreement, during the term of the agreement, we may not research, develop or commercialize HMT inhibitors directed to the three targets selected by GSK, other than pursuant to the agreement. 

Term and Termination. The agreement will expire in its entirety upon the expiration of all applicable royalty terms for all licensed products in all countries. The royalty term for each licensed product in each country is the period commencing with first commercial sale of the applicable licensed product in the applicable country and ending on the later of expiration of specified patent coverage or ten years following the first commercial sale. GSK has the right to terminate the agreement at any time with respect to one or more selected targets or in its entirety, upon 90 days&#146; prior written notice to us. The agreement may also be terminated with respect to one or more selected targets or in its entirety by either GSK or us in the event of a material breach by the other party. The agreement may be terminated with respect to selected targets by us in the event GSK participates or actively assists in a legal challenge to one of the patents exclusively licensed to GSK under the agreement with respect to the applicable selected target. 

&#160;

Eisai 

Overview. In March 2015, we entered into an amended and restated collaboration and license agreement with Eisai, under which we reacquired worldwide rights, excluding Japan, to our EZH2 program, including tazemetostat. Under the amended and restated collaboration and license agreement, we will be responsible for global development, manufacturing and commercialization outside of Japan of tazemetostat and any other EZH2 product candidates, with Eisai retaining development and commercialization rights in Japan, as well as a right to elect to manufacture tazemetostat and any other EZH2 product candidates in Japan. Under the original collaboration and license agreement, we had granted Eisai an exclusive worldwide license to our small molecule HMT inhibitors directed to EZH2, including tazemetostat, while retaining an opt-in right to co-develop, co-commercialize and share profits with Eisai as to licensed products in the United States. 

Under the terms of the original agreement, we recorded a $3.0 million upfront payment, $7.0 million in preclinical research and development milestone payments, a $6.0 million clinical development milestone and $22.7 million for research and development services through December 31, 2015. We were also eligible to earn up to a total of $195.0 million in clinical development, regulatory and sales-based milestone payments and to receive royalties on product sales. Upon the execution of the amended and restated collaboration agreement, we agreed to pay Eisai a $40.0 million upfront payment. We also agreed to pay Eisai up to $20.0 million in clinical development milestone payments, up to $50.0 million in regulatory milestone payments and royalties at a percentage in the mid-teens on worldwide net sales of any EZH2 product, excluding net sales in Japan. We are eligible to receive from Eisai royalties at a percentage in the mid-teens on net sales of any EZH2 product in Japan. 

Under the original agreement, Eisai was solely responsible for funding all research, development and commercialization costs for licensed compounds. Under the amended agreement, we are solely responsible for funding global development, manufacturing and commercialization costs for EZH2 compounds outside of Japan, and Eisai is solely responsible for funding Japan-specific development and commercialization costs for EZH2 compounds. In connection with the amendment and restatement of our collaboration and license agreement with Eisai, we and Eisai agreed to the transition to us of ongoing development and manufacturing activities that were being conducted by or on behalf of Eisai. 

In the event that we seek to license rights to a third party to develop or commercialize an EZH2 product in any country in Asia other than Japan, Eisai has a limited right of first negotiation for such rights. In the event that we are awarded a priority review voucher from the FDA with respect to an EZH2 product, Eisai is entitled to specified compensation if we use the voucher on a non-EZH2 program or sell the voucher to a third party. 

Governance . Under the amended and restated collaboration and license agreement, development will be guided by a joint steering committee, with Epizyme retaining final decision making authority with respect to global development. 

Exclusivity Restrictions . Subject to exceptions specified in the agreement, for an exclusivity period extending until eight years after the first commercial sale of a product covered by the agreement, neither we nor Eisai may research, develop or commercialize HMT inhibitors directed to EZH2, other than pursuant to the agreement. 

Term and Termination . Our agreement with Eisai will remain in effect until the expiration of all payment obligations under the agreement with respect to all licensed products. The royalty term for each licensed product in each country commences on the first commercial sale of the applicable licensed product in the applicable country and ends on the latest of expiration of specified patent coverage, expiration of specified regulatory exclusivity or ten years following the first commercial sale. We or Eisai may terminate the agreement for convenience as to our respective territories, upon 90 days&#146; prior written notice. The agreement will also terminate as to our territory if we cease all development and commercialization activities for the United States and specified major countries in Europe and as to Eisai&#146;s territory if Eisai ceases all development and commercialization activities for Japan. The agreement may also be terminated by either party in the event of an 

&#160;

uncured material breach by the other party or by us in the event Eisai, or an affiliate or sublicensee, participates or actively assists in an action or proceeding challenging or denying the validity of one of our patents. If we terminate the agreement for our convenience, the agreement terminates as a result of our cessation of development and commercialization activities or Eisai terminates the agreement for our uncured material breach, Eisai may elect to have worldwide development and commercialization rights revert to Eisai, and if Eisai so elects, Eisai will be required to pay us specified royalties on net sales of the licensed products and reimburse certain development expenses incurred by us. If Eisai terminates the agreement for its convenience, the agreement terminates as a result of Eisai&#146;s cessation of development and commercialization activities or we terminate the agreement for Eisai&#146;s uncured material breach or Eisai&#146;s, or its affiliate&#146;s or sublicensee&#146;s, participation in, or assistance with, an action or proceeding challenging or denying the validity of one of our patents, Japanese development and commercialization rights to the licensed products revert to us, and we will be required to pay Eisai specified royalties on net sales of licensed products in Japan. 

Companion Diagnostics 

Roche. In December 2012, Eisai and we entered into an agreement with Roche under which Eisai and we engaged Roche to develop a companion diagnostic to identify patients who possess certain point mutations of EZH2. In October 2013, this agreement was amended to include additional point mutations in EZH2. The $21.5 million of development costs due under the amended agreement with Roche were the responsibility of Eisai until the execution of our amended and restated collaboration and license agreement with Eisai in March 2015, at which time we assumed responsibility for the remaining development costs due under the agreement. In December of 2015, we entered into the second amendment to the companion diagnostic agreement with Roche. We are responsible for the remaining development costs of $15.0 million due under the second amendment as of December 31, 2015. 

Under our agreement with Roche, Roche is obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and to make commercially available the companion diagnostic. Roche has exclusive rights to commercialize the companion diagnostic. 

Our agreement with Roche will expire when we are no longer developing or commercializing tazemetostat. We may terminate the agreement by giving Roche 90 days&#146; written notice if we discontinue development and commercialization of tazemetostat or determine, in conjunction with Roche, that the companion diagnostic is not needed for use with tazemetostat. Either we or Roche may also terminate the agreement in the event of a material breach by the other party, in the event of material changes in circumstances that are contrary to key assumptions specified in the agreement or in the event of specified bankruptcy or similar circumstances. Under specified termination circumstances, Roche may become entitled to specified termination fees. 

Intellectual Property 

We strive to protect the proprietary compounds and technologies that we believe are important to our business, including seeking and maintaining patent protection intended to cover the composition of matter of our product candidates, their methods of use, related technologies, diagnostics and other inventions. Our patent portfolio is currently comprised of over 50 issued patents and allowed patent applications and over 400 pending patent applications in the major pharmaceutical markets, that we own as well as license from other parties. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets and careful monitoring of our proprietary information to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. 

Our success will depend significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for commercially important technology, inventions and know-how related to our business, defend and enforce our patents, maintain our licenses to use intellectual property owned by third parties, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the valid and enforceable patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. We also rely on know-how, continuing technological innovation and in-licensing opportunities to develop, strengthen, and maintain our proprietary position in the field of HMTs. 

&#160;

We plan to continue to expand our intellectual property estate by filing patent applications directed to dosage forms, methods of treatment and additional HMT inhibitor compounds and their derivatives. Specifically, we seek patent protection in the United States and internationally for novel compositions of matter covering the compounds, the chemistries and processes for manufacturing these compounds and the use of these compounds in a variety of therapies. 

The patent portfolios for our most advanced programs are summarized below. 

EZH2. Our EZH2 patent portfolio includes U.S. Patent No. 8,410,088 covering the composition of matter of tazemetostat. This patent issued on April 2, 2013 and is expected to expire in 2032. Our EZH2 portfolio also includes twelve additional U.S. patents and three foreign patents, expected to expire between 2031 and 2034, not including extensions. The claims of these patents cover the composition of matter of EZH2 inhibitor compounds and various methods of their making and use. Patent applications in the same families as these patents are pending in a variety of worldwide jurisdictions, including the United States. The EZH2 program portfolio encompasses more than 30 patent families with pending patent applications relating to compositions of matter and methods of making and use. The patent families in this portfolio are in various stages of prosecution and include patent applications filed in a variety of worldwide jurisdictions, including the United States; Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) applications that are eligible for filing in most worldwide jurisdictions, including the United States; and U.S. provisional applications that may be used to establish non-provisional U.S. applications, PCT applications and other national filings worldwide. Our patent applications in the EZH2 portfolio, if issued, would be expected to expire between 2031 and 2036. 

DOT1L. Our DOT1L patent portfolio includes U.S. Patent No. 8,580,762 covering the composition of matter of pinometostat. The patent issued on November 12, 2013 and is expected to expire in 2032. Our DOT1L portfolio also includes five additional U.S. patents and eight foreign patents, expected to expire between 2031 and 2034, not including extensions. The DOT1L program portfolio encompasses more than seventeen patent families relating to compositions of matter of DOT1L inhibitor compounds and methods of their making and use. The patent families in this portfolio are in various stages of prosecution and include patent families with applications filed in a variety of worldwide jurisdictions including the United States; PCT applications that are eligible for filing in most worldwide jurisdictions, including the United States. These patents and patent applications are wholly owned by us. Our patent applications in the DOT1L portfolio, if issued, would be expected to expire between 2031 and 2036. 

Other Targets . We also have patent portfolios directed to targets other than EZH2 and DOT1L, including the HMT targets PRMT1, PRMT3, CARM1 (PRMT4), PRMT5, PRMT6 and PRMT8. Our patent portfolio has more than 20 patent families directed to various product candidates with applications filed in the United States, PCT applications that are eligible for filing in most worldwide jurisdictions, including the United States, and U.S. provisional applications that may be used to establish non-provisional U.S. applications, PCT applications and other national filings worldwide. Patents issued in these portfolios are expected to expire between 2033 and 2035. In 2015, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued three U.S. patents that cover PRMT5 inhibitors and methods of their making and use. These patents are expected to expire in 2033, not including extensions. In addition, in 2015 five U.S. patents issued covering PRMT1 inhibitors and methods of their making and use. These patents are expected to expire in 2034, not including extensions. 

The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries in which we file, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest date of filing a non-provisional patent application. 

In the United States, the patent term of a patent that covers an FDA-approved drug may also be eligible for patent term extension, which permits patent term restoration as compensation for the patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. The Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the expiration of the patent. The length of the patent term extension is related to the length of time the drug is under regulatory review. Patent extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended. Similar 

&#160;

provisions are available in Europe and other non-United States jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if and when our pharmaceutical products receive FDA approval, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on patents covering those products. We intend to seek patent term extensions to any of our issued patents in any jurisdiction where these are available, however there is no guarantee that the applicable authorities, including the FDA in the United States, will agree with our assessment of whether such extensions should be granted, and even if granted, the length of such extensions. 

We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, including through contractual means with our employees and consultants, third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology. Thus, we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. It is our policy to require our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information concerning our business or financial affairs developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual&#146;s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions conceived by the individual, and which are related to our current or planned business or research and development or made during normal working hours, on our premises or using our equipment or proprietary information, are our exclusive property. 

UNC In-Licensed Portfolio. In January 2008, we entered into a license agreement with the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, or UNC, to discover, develop and commercialize products utilizing specified inventions of UNC. Under the terms of the agreement, we were granted an exclusive, worldwide license under specified patent rights and a non-exclusive worldwide license under specified know-how and biological materials, in each case to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize pharmaceutical and diagnostic products. The intellectual property we had licensed from UNC did not directly relate to our current product candidates, tazemetostat and pinometostat, and related solely to screening methods and related materials. In March 2016, we terminated this agreement in accordance with its provisions. 

Manufacturing 

We do not have any manufacturing facilities and currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical testing, as well as for commercial manufacture if our product candidates receive marketing approval. Prior to the execution of the amended and restated collaboration and license agreement with Eisai, Eisai manufactured tazemetostat for preclinical and clinical development. Upon execution of the amended and restated collaboration and license agreement, as part of the transition plan, Eisai agreed to sell us its existing inventories and manufacture additional tazemetostat clinical supplies and the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API. We took receipt of these API and clinical supplies from Eisai during the year ended December 31, 2015. We have entered into clinical supply agreements with two contract manufacturers, one to produce tazemetostat API and one to produce tazemetostat tablets. We intend to identify and qualify additional manufacturers to provide API, tablets and a pediatric formulation as part of our ongoing manufacturing efforts for tazemetostat. To date, we have obtained materials for pinometostat from multiple third party manufacturers. 

All of our drug candidates are small molecules and are manufactured in reliable and reproducible synthetic processes from readily available starting materials. The chemistry is amenable to scale up and does not require unusual equipment in the manufacturing process. We expect to continue to develop drug candidates that can be produced cost-effectively at contract manufacturing facilities. 

We generally expect to rely on third parties for the manufacture of any companion diagnostics. We are currently collaborating with Roche for a diagnostic for use with tazemetostat, and we expect to rely on Roche for the manufacture of the diagnostic it is developing. We may enter into similar agreements for the manufacture of other companion diagnostics. 

&#160;

Commercialization 

We have not yet established a sales, marketing or product distribution infrastructure because our lead candidates are still in early clinical development. We generally expect to retain commercial rights in the United States for our product candidates for which we receive marketing approvals and have done so to date other than for the product candidates under our GSK collaboration and two of the three targets under our Celgene collaboration. We believe that it will be possible for us to access the United States oncology market through a focused, specialized sales force. 

Subject to receiving marketing approvals, we expect to commence commercialization activities by building a focused sales and marketing organization in the United States to sell our products. We believe that such an organization will be able to address the community of oncologists who are the key specialists in treating the patient populations for which our product candidates are being developed. Outside the United States, we may choose to enter into distribution and other marketing arrangements with third parties for any of our product candidates that obtain marketing approval, or may choose to commercialize our products in certain markets, depending upon many factors, including the target market size, availability of reimbursement, and our financial resources at the time. 

We also plan to build a marketing and sales management organization to create and implement marketing strategies for any products that we market through our own sales organization and to oversee and support our sales force. The responsibilities of the marketing organization would include developing educational initiatives with respect to approved products and establishing relationships with thought leaders in relevant fields of medicine. 

We expect that our collaborators for any companion diagnostics we may develop in the future for use with our therapeutic products will hold the commercial rights to these diagnostic products, as is the case for our collaboration with Roche. We expect to coordinate closely with any diagnostic collaborators in connection with the marketing and sale of any related therapeutic products. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. While we believe that our technology, knowledge, experience and scientific resources provide us with competitive advantages, we face potential competition from many different sources, including major pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future. 

There are a large number of companies developing or marketing treatments for cancer, including many major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Companies that are developing new epigenetic treatments for cancer that target HMTs include GSK, Novartis AG, Pfizer, Inc., Merck &#38; Co., Inc., Daiichi Sankyo Company Limited and Constellation Pharmaceuticals. In addition, many companies are developing cancer therapeutics that work by targeting epigenetic mechanisms other than HMTs, and some including Celgene and Eisai, are now marketing cancer treatments that work by targeting epigenetic mechanisms other than HMTs. 

Many of the companies against which we are competing or against which we may compete in the future have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and 

&#160;

established companies. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. 

The key competitive factors affecting the success of all of our therapeutic product candidates, if approved, are likely to be their efficacy, safety, convenience, price, the effectiveness of companion diagnostics in guiding the use of related therapeutics, the level of generic competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third party payors. 

Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third party payors seeking to encourage the use of generic products. Generic products that broadly address these indications are currently on the market for the indications that we are pursuing, and additional products are expected to become available on a generic basis over the coming years. If our product candidates achieve marketing approval, we expect that they will be priced at a significant premium over competitive generic products. 

The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and drug therapy. There are a variety of available drug therapies marketed for cancer. In many cases, these drugs are administered in combination to enhance efficacy. While our product candidates may compete with many existing drug and other therapies, to the extent they are ultimately used in combination with or as an adjunct to these therapies, our product candidates will not be competitive with them. Some of the currently approved drug therapies are branded and subject to patent protection, and others are available on a generic basis. Many of these approved drugs are well established therapies and are widely accepted by physicians, patients and third party payors. 

In addition to currently marketed therapies, there are also a number of products in late stage clinical development to treat cancer. These products in development may provide efficacy, safety, convenience and other benefits that are not provided by currently marketed therapies. As a result, they may provide significant competition for any of our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. 

If our lead product candidates are approved for the indications for which we are currently undertaking clinical trials, they will compete with the therapies and currently marketed drugs discussed below. 

Tazemetostat. The most common treatments for DLBCL and FL are chemotherapies, usually combined with the monoclonal antibody Rituxan. While Rituxan and number of other widely used anti-cancer agents are labeled either broadly for NHL or more narrowly for DLBCL or FL, no therapies are approved specifically for the treatment of tumors associated with the oncogenic mutation of EZH2. Although there are no approved therapies for MRT, current treatment for these tumors consists of intensive chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy. A doxorubicin-based chemotherapy regimen is used as front line treatment for patients with synovial sarcoma. MRTO is an aggressive tumor with a poor prognosis that is generally treated with surgery and platinum-based combination chemotherapy at diagnosis. Mesothelioma is typically treated with cisplatin and pemetrexed chemotherapy in the front line setting. There are no established salvage treatments for patients with MRT, synovial sarcoma, MRTO, or mesothelioma who relapse or who are refractory to front line treatment. 

Pinometostat. There are no approved therapies specifically indicated for MLL-r. There are, however, currently approved therapies for acute lymphoblastic leukemias, or ALL and acute myeloblastic leukemias, or AML, in general. The current standard of care differs according to the specific lineage of the leukemia. Patients with AML and ALL typically are treated with intensive multi-agent chemotherapy and high risk patients who enter remission and have a matched donor may receive an allogeneic stem cell transplant. 

&#160;

Government Regulation and Product Approval 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries and foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, import and export of pharmaceutical products such as those we are developing. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and in foreign countries, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

United States Government Regulation 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and its implementing regulations. Failure to comply with the applicable United States requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as the FDA&#146;s refusal to approve pending new drug applications, or NDAs, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. 

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA&#146;s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an IND which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, at each clinical site before each trial may be initiated; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of human clinical trials, including adequate and well-controlled clinical trials, in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each indication; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an NDA; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA advisory committee review, if applicable; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity, as well as satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of selected clinical sites to determine GCP compliance; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; payment of user fees per published PDUFA guidelines for that year; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; compliance with any post-approval requirements, including the potential requirement to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, and the potential requirement to conduct post-approval studies. Preclinical Studies. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies to assess potential safety and efficacy. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data and any available clinical data or literature, among other things, to the FDA as part of an IND. Some preclinical testing may continue even 

&#160;

after the IND is submitted. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to one or more proposed clinical trials and places the clinical trial on a clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence. 

Clinical Trials. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing for their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. In addition, an IRB at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must continue to oversee the clinical trial while it is being conducted. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for public dissemination on the ClinicalTrials.gov website. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in four sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined. In phase 1, the drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients with the target disease or condition and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an initial indication of its effectiveness. In phase 2, the drug typically is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. In phase 3, the drug is administered to an expanded patient population, generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, in well-controlled clinical trials to generate enough data to statistically evaluate the efficacy and safety of the product for approval, to establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product. In phase 4, post-approval studies may be conducted to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. Phase 1, phase 2, phase 3 and phase 4 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. 

In general, the FDA accepts foreign safety and efficacy studies that were not conducted under an IND provided that they are well designed, well conducted, performed by qualified investigators, and conducted in accordance with ethical principles acceptable to the world community. The conduct of these studies must meet at least minimum standards for assuring human subject protection. Therefore, for studies submitted in support of an NDA that were conducted outside the United States and not under an IND, the agency requires demonstration that such studies were conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practices. 

Marketing Approval. Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical and clinical studies, together with detailed information relating to the product&#146;s chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. In most cases, the submission of an NDA is subject to a substantial application user fee. The application user fee currently exceeds $2.3 million, and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees, currently exceeding $114,000 per product and $585,000 per establishment for fiscal year 2016. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee 

&#160;

Act, or PDUFA, guidelines that are currently in effect, the FDA has agreed to certain performance goals regarding the timing of its review of an application. 

In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, an NDA or supplement to an NDA must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of the applicant, grant deferrals for submission of some or all pediatric data until after approval of the product for use in adults, or full or partial waivers from the pediatric data requirements. Unless otherwise required by regulation, the pediatric data requirements do not apply to products with orphan designation. 

The FDA also may require submission of a REMS plan to mitigate any identified or suspected serious risks. The REMS plan could include medication guides, physician communication plans, assessment plans, and elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries or other risk minimization tools. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of all NDAs within the first 60 days after submission, before accepting them for filing, to determine whether they are sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether the drug is safe and effective and whether the facility in which it is manufactured, processed, packaged or held meets standards designed to assure the product&#146;s continued safety, quality and purity. 

The FDA typically refers a question regarding a novel drug to an external advisory committee. An advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical trial sites to assure compliance with GCP. 

The testing and approval process for an NDA requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and each may take several years to complete. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may not grant approval of an NDA on a timely basis, or at all. 

After evaluating the NDA and all related information, including the advisory committee recommendation, if any, and inspection reports regarding the manufacturing facilities and clinical trial sites, the FDA may issue an approval letter, or, in some cases, a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally contains a statement of specific conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval of the NDA and may require additional clinical or preclinical testing in order for FDA to reconsider the application. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. If and when those conditions have been met to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction, the FDA will typically issue an approval letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. 

Even if the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use of the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, including a boxed warning, 

&#160;

require that post-approval studies, including phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess a drug&#146;s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms under a REMS which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-marketing studies or surveillance programs. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes, and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

Special FDA Expedited Review and Approval Programs. The FDA has various programs, including fast track designation, accelerated approval, priority review and breakthrough designation, that are intended to expedite or simplify the process for the development and FDA review of drugs that are intended for the treatment of serious or life threatening diseases or conditions and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs. The purpose of these programs is to provide important new drugs to patients earlier than under standard FDA review procedures. 

To be eligible for a fast track designation, the FDA must determine, based on the request of a sponsor, that a product is intended to treat a serious or life threatening disease or condition and demonstrates the potential to address an unmet medical need. The FDA will determine that a product will fill an unmet medical need if it will provide a therapy where none exists or provide a therapy that may be potentially superior to existing therapy based on efficacy or safety factors. For fast track products, sponsors may have greater interactions with the FDA regarding drug development and may submit sections of a fast track product&#146;s NDA before the application is complete. 

The FDA may give a priority review designation to drugs that offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. A priority review means that the goal for the FDA to review an application is six months, rather than the standard review of ten months under current PDUFA guidelines. These six and ten month review periods are measured from the &#147;filing&#148; date rather than the receipt date for NDAs for new molecular entities, which typically adds approximately two months to the timeline for review and decision from the date of submission. Most products that are eligible for fast track designation are also likely to be considered appropriate to receive a priority review. 

In addition, products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing treatments may receive accelerated approval and may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require a sponsor of a drug receiving accelerated approval to perform post-marketing studies to verify and describe the predicted effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical endpoint, and the drug may be subject to accelerated withdrawal procedures. 

Moreover, under the provisions of the new Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, enacted in 2012, a sponsor can request designation of a product candidate as a &#147;breakthrough therapy.&#148; A breakthrough therapy is defined as a drug that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. Drugs designated as breakthrough therapies are also eligible for accelerated approval. The FDA must take certain actions, such as holding timely meetings and providing advice, intended to expedite the development and review of an application for approval of a breakthrough therapy. 

&#160;

Even if a product qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the product no longer meets the conditions for qualification or decide that the time period for FDA review or approval will not be shortened. 

FDA Regulation of Companion Diagnostics. Our drug products may rely upon in vitro companion diagnostics for use in selecting the patients that we believe will respond to our cancer therapeutics. FDA officials have issued guidance that addresses issues critical to developing in vitro companion diagnostics, such as when the FDA will require that the diagnostic and the drug be approved simultaneously. The guidance issued in August 2014 states that if safe and effective use of a therapeutic product depends on an in vitro diagnostic, then the FDA generally will require approval or clearance of the diagnostic at the same time that the FDA approves the therapeutic product. 

The FDA previously has required in vitro companion diagnostics intended to select the patients who will respond to the cancer treatment to obtain Pre-Market Approval, or PMA, simultaneously with approval of the drug. Based on the guidance, and the FDA&#146;s past treatment of companion diagnostics, we believe that the FDA will require PMA approval of one or more in vitro companion diagnostics to identify patient populations suitable for our cancer therapies. The review of these in vitro companion diagnostics in conjunction with the review of our cancer treatments involves coordination of review by the FDA&#146;s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and by the FDA&#146;s Center for Devices and Radiological Health Office of In Vitro Diagnostics Device Evaluation and Safety. 

The PMA process, including the gathering of clinical and preclinical data and the submission to and review by the FDA, can take several years or longer. It involves a rigorous premarket review during which the applicant must prepare and provide the FDA with reasonable assurance of the device&#146;s safety and effectiveness and information about the device and its components regarding, among other things, device design, manufacturing and labeling. PMA applications are subject to an application fee, which exceeds $250,000 for most PMAs. 

Post-Approval Requirements. Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. 

The FDA may impose a number of post-approval requirements as a condition of approval of an NDA. For example, the FDA may require post-marketing testing, including phase 4 clinical trials and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product&#146;s safety and effectiveness after commercialization. 

In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. 

Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may 

&#160;

result in mandatory revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Although physicians, in the practice of medicine, may prescribe approved drugs for unapproved indications, pharmaceutical companies generally are required to promote their drug products only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability. 

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, as well as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, or DSCA, which regulate the distribution and tracing of prescription drugs and prescription drug samples at the federal level, and set minimum standards for the regulation of drug distributors by the states. The PDMA, its implementing regulations and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples, and the DSCA imposes requirements to ensure accountability in distribution and to identify and remove counterfeit and other illegitimate products from the market. 

Federal and State Fraud and Abuse and Data Privacy and Security Laws and Regulations. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, federal and state fraud and abuse laws restrict business practices in the biopharmaceutical industry. These laws include anti-kickback and false claims laws and regulations as well as data privacy and security laws and regulations. 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease, or order of any item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. The term &#147;remuneration&#148; has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly. Practices that involve remuneration that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchases, or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Several courts have interpreted the statute&#146;s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. 

The reach of the Anti-Kickback Statute was also broadened by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively PPACA, which, among other things, amended the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim 

&#160;

for purposes of the civil False Claims Act or the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes penalties against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. PPACA also created new federal requirements for reporting, by applicable manufacturers of covered drugs, payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals. 

The federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. A claim includes &#147;any request or demand&#148; for money or property presented to the U.S. government. Several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the companies&#146; marketing of products for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. 

The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third party payors and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. 

We may also be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and its implementing regulations, imposes specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA&#146;s privacy and security standards directly applicable to &#147;business associates,&#148; defined as independent contractors or agents of covered entities that receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney&#146;s fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

In addition, federal transparency requirements known as the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act, or the Affordable Care Act, require certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report annually to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, within the United States Department of Health and Human Services, information related to payments and other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry&#146;s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures 

To the extent that any of our products are sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations, which may include, for instance, applicable post-marketing requirements, including safety surveillance, anti-fraud and abuse laws, and implementation of corporate compliance programs and reporting of payments or transfers of value to healthcare professionals. 

&#160;

Coverage and Reimbursement. The commercial success of our product candidates and our ability to commercialize any approved product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors provide coverage for and establish adequate reimbursement levels for our therapeutic product candidates and related companion diagnostics. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels for healthcare. In particular, in the United States, private health insurers and other third party payors often provide reimbursement for products and services based on the level at which the government (through the Medicare or Medicaid programs) provides reimbursement for such treatments. In the United States, the European Union and other potentially significant markets for our product candidates, government authorities and third party payors are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which often has resulted in average selling prices lower than they would otherwise be. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our future product sales and results of operations. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. 

Third party payors are increasingly imposing additional requirements and restrictions on coverage and limiting reimbursement levels for medical products. For example, federal and state governments reimburse covered prescription drugs at varying rates generally below average wholesale price. These restrictions and limitations influence the purchase of healthcare services and products. Legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce costs under government insurance programs may result in lower reimbursement for our products and product candidates or exclusion of our products and product candidates from coverage. The cost containment measures that healthcare payors and providers are instituting and any healthcare reform could significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of any approved product candidates. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain and maintain third party coverage or adequate reimbursement for our product candidates in whole or in part. 

Impact of Healthcare Reform on Coverage, Reimbursement, and Pricing. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, imposed new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities that provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Part D plans include both standalone prescription drug benefit plans and prescription drug coverage as a supplement to Medicare Advantage plans. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for any products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our future products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan will likely be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from Medicare Part D may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. 

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. A plan for the research will be developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes for Health, and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures will be made to 

&#160;

Congress. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payors, it is not clear what effect, if any, the research will have on the sales of any product, if any such product or the condition that it is intended to treat is the subject of a study. It is also possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits in a competitor&#146;s product could adversely affect the sales of our product candidates. If third party payors do not consider our product candidates to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our product candidates, once approved, as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. 

The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering enacting or have enacted a number of additional legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives, including, most recently, PPACA, which became law in March 2010 and substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among the provisions of the Affordable Care Act of importance to potential drug candidates are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, although this fee would not apply to sales of certain products approved exclusively for orphan indications; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer&#146;s Medicaid rebate liability; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expanded manufacturers&#146; rebate liability under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program by increasing the minimum rebate for both branded and generic drugs and revising the definition of &#147;average manufacturer price,&#148; or AMP, for calculating and reporting Medicaid drug rebates on outpatient prescription drug prices and extending rebate liability to prescriptions for individuals enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expanded the types of entities eligible for the 340B drug discount program; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; established the Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program by requiring manufacturers to provide a 50% point-of-sale-discount off the negotiated price of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period as a condition for the manufacturers&#146; outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, which has authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program to reduce expenditures by the program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs. However, the IPAB implementation has been not been clearly defined. PPACA provided that under certain circumstances, IPAB recommendations will become law unless Congress enacts legislation that will achieve the same or greater Medicare cost savings; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending. Funding has been allocated to support the mission of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation from 2011 to 2019. &#160;

Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. For example, in August 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2012 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation&#146;s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and will remain in effect through 2024 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. 

Exclusivity and Approval of Competing Products 

Patent Term Restoration and Extension. A patent claiming a new drug product may be eligible for a limited patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Act, which permits a patent restoration of up to five years for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review. The restoration period granted is typically one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of a NDA, plus the time between the submission date of a NDA and the ultimate approval date. Patent term restoration cannot be used to extend the remaining term of a patent past a total of 14 years from the product&#146;s approval date. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug product is eligible for the extension, and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent in question. A patent that covers multiple drugs for which approval is sought can only be extended in connection with one of the approvals. The USPTO reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration in consultation with the FDA. 

Hatch-Waxman Patent Exclusivity. In seeking approval for a drug through an NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims that cover the applicant&#146;s product or a method of using the product. Upon approval of a drug, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in the FDA&#146;s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Drugs listed in the Orange Book can, in turn, be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or 505(b)(2) NDA. 

Generally, an ANDA provides for marketing of a drug product that has the same active ingredients in the same strengths, dosage form and route of administration as the listed drug and has been shown to be bioequivalent through in vitro or in vivo testing or otherwise to the listed drug. ANDA applicants are not required to conduct or submit results of preclinical or clinical tests to prove the safety or effectiveness of their drug product, other than the requirement for bioequivalence testing. Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as &#147;generic equivalents&#148; to the listed drug, and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the original listed drug. 

A 505(b)(2) application applies to a drug for which the investigations made to show whether or not the drug is safe for use and effective in use and relied upon by the applicant for approval of the application &#147;were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by or for whom the investigations were conducted.&#148; As with an ANDA, Section 505(b)(2) authorizes the FDA to approve an NDA based on safety and effectiveness data that were not developed by the applicant. 505(b)(2) NDAs generally are submitted for changes to a previously approved drug product, such as a new dosage form or indication. 

The ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA&#146;s Orange Book, except for patents covering methods of use for which the ANDA applicant is not seeking approval. Specifically, the applicant must certify with respect to each patent that: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the required patent information has not been filed; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has expired; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed by the new product. Generally, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA cannot be approved until all listed patents have expired, except when the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant challenges a listed drug. A certification that the proposed product will not infringe the already approved product&#146;s listed patents or that such patents are invalid or unenforceable is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents or indicate that it is not seeking approval of a patented method of use, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. 

If the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days after the receipt of notice of the Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA until the earlier of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant. 

Hatch&#151;Waxman Non-Patent Exclusivity. Market and data exclusivity provisions under the FDCA also can delay the submission or the approval of ANDAs and 505(b)(2) NDAs for competing products. The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent data exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the activity of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company that contains the previously approved active moiety. However, an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement. 

The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA, or supplement to an existing NDA or 505(b)(2) NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant, are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application or supplement. Three-year exclusivity may be awarded for changes to a previously approved drug product, such as new indications, dosages, strengths or dosage forms of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions of use associated with the new clinical investigations and, as a general matter, does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs or 505(b)(2) NDAs for generic versions of the original, unmodified drug product. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA; however, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the preclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. 

Orphan Drug Exclusivity. The Orphan Drug Act provides incentives for the development of drugs intended to treat rare diseases or conditions, which generally are diseases or conditions affecting less than 200,000 individuals annually in the United States. If a sponsor demonstrates that a drug is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, the FDA grants orphan drug designation to the product for that use. The benefits of orphan drug designation include research and development tax credits and exemption from user fees. A drug that is approved for the orphan drug designated indication is granted seven years of orphan drug exclusivity. During that period, the FDA generally may not approve any other application for the same product for the same indication, although there are exceptions, most notably when the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the product with exclusivity. We intend to seek orphan drug designation and exclusivity for our products whenever it is available. 

&#160;

We have been granted orphan drug designation in the United States and the European Union for pinometostat, and orphan drug designation in the United States for tazemetostat for the treatment of malignant rhabdoid tumors. 

Pediatric Exclusivity. Pediatric exclusivity is another type of non-patent marketing exclusivity in the United States and, if granted, provides for the attachment of an additional six months of marketing protection to the term of any existing regulatory exclusivity, including the non-patent and orphan drug exclusivity periods described above. This six-month exclusivity may be granted if an NDA sponsor submits pediatric data that fairly respond to a written request from the FDA for such data. The data do not need to show the product to be effective in the pediatric population studied; rather, if the clinical trial is deemed to fairly respond to the FDA&#146;s request, the additional protection is granted. If reports of requested pediatric studies are submitted to and accepted by FDA within the statutory time limits, whatever statutory or regulatory periods of exclusivity or Orange Book listed patent protection cover the drug are extended by six months. This is not a patent term extension, but it effectively extends the regulatory period during which the FDA cannot approve an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application owing to regulatory exclusivity or listed patents. When any of our products is approved, we anticipate seeking pediatric exclusivity when it is appropriate. 

European Union Drug Approval Process 

In order to market any product outside of the United States, we would need to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 

Clinical Trial Approval in the EU. Pursuant to the currently applicable Clinical Trials Directives, an applicant must obtain approval from the competent national authority of the EU Member State in which the clinical trial is to be conducted. If the clinical trial is conducted in different EU Member States, the competent authorities in each of these EU Member States must provide their approval for the conduct of the clinical trial. Furthermore, the applicant may only start a clinical trial at a specific study site after the competent ethics committee has issued a favorable opinion. In April 2014, the EU adopted a new Clinical Trials Regulation, which is set to replace the current Clinical Trials Directive. The new Clinical Trials Regulation will be directly applicable to and binding in all 28 EU Member States without the need for any national implementing legislation, and will become applicable no earlier than 28 May 2016. Under the new coordinated procedure for the approval of clinical trials, the sponsor of a clinical trial will be required to submit a single application for approval of a clinical trial to a reporting EU Member State (RMS) through an EU Portal. The submission procedure will be the same irrespective of whether the clinical trial is to be conducted in a single EU Member State or in more than one EU Member State. The Clinical Trials Regulation also aims to streamline and simplify the rules on safety reporting for clinical trials. 

Marketing Authorization. To obtain marketing approval of a drug under European Union regulatory systems, we may submit marketing authorization applications, or MAAs, either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The centralized procedure is compulsory for medicines produced by specified biotechnological processes, products designated as orphan medicinal products, and products with a new active substance indicated for the treatment of specified diseases, and optional for those products that are highly innovative or for which a centralized process is in the interest of patients. Under the centralized procedure in the European Union, the maximum timeframe for the evaluation of an MAA is 210 days, excluding clock stops, 

&#160;

when additional written or oral information is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions asked by the Scientific Advice Working Party of the Committee of Medicinal Products for Human Use, or the CHMP. Accelerated evaluation might be granted by the CHMP in exceptional cases, when a medicinal product is expected to be of a major public health interest, defined by three cumulative criteria: the seriousness of the disease, such as heavy disabling or life-threatening diseases, to be treated; the absence or insufficiency of an appropriate alternative therapeutic approach; and anticipation of high therapeutic benefit. In this circumstance, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, ensures that the opinion of the CHMP is given within 150 days. 

The decentralized procedure provides for approval by one or more other, or concerned, member states of an assessment of an application performed by one member state, known as the reference member state. Under this procedure, an applicant submits an application, or dossier, and related materials, including a draft summary of product characteristics, and draft labeling and package leaflet, to the reference member state and concerned member states. The reference member state prepares a draft assessment and drafts of the related materials within 120 days after receipt of a valid application. Within 90 days of receiving the reference member state&#146;s assessment report, each concerned member state must decide whether to approve the assessment report and related materials. If a member state cannot approve the assessment report and related materials on the grounds of potential serious risk to public health, the disputed points may eventually be referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all member states. For the EMA, a Pediatric Investigation Plan, or a request for waiver or deferral, is required for submission prior to submitting an MAA for use for drugs in pediatric populations. 

Data and Market Exclusivity . In the European Union, new chemical entities qualify for eight years of data exclusivity upon marketing authorization and an additional two years of market exclusivity. This data exclusivity, if granted, prevents regulatory authorities in the European Union from assessing a generic (abbreviated) application for eight years, after which generic marketing authorization can be submitted but not approved for two years. The overall ten-year period will be extended to a maximum of eleven years if, during the first eight years of those ten years, the marketing authorization holder obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to their authorization, are held to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. Even if a compound is considered to be a new chemical entity and the sponsor is able to gain the prescribed period of data exclusivity, another company nevertheless could also market another version of the drug if such company can complete a full MAA with a complete human clinical trial database and obtain marketing approval of its product. 

Orphan Drug Exclusivity. The EMA grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of products that may offer therapeutic benefits for life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions affecting not more than five in 10,000 people in the European Union. In addition, orphan drug designation can be granted if the drug is intended for a life threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition in the European Union and without incentives it is unlikely that sales of the drug in the European Union would be sufficient to justify developing the drug. Orphan drug designation is only available if there is no other satisfactory method approved in the European Union of diagnosing, preventing or treating the condition, or if such a method exists, the proposed orphan drug will be of significant benefit to patients. Orphan drug designation provides opportunities for free protocol assistance, fee reductions for access to the centralized regulatory procedures before and during the first year after marketing authorization and 10 years of market exclusivity following drug approval. Fee reductions are not limited to the first year after authorization for small and medium enterprises. The exclusivity period may be reduced to six years if the designation criteria are no longer met, including where it is shown that the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. 

Employees 

As of March 1, 2016, we had 89 full-time employees, 61 of whom were primarily engaged in research and development activities and 27 of whom have an M.D. or Ph.D. degree. 

&#160;

Executive Officers of the Company 

The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each of our executive officers as of March 1, 2016. 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Age &#160; &#160; Position 

Robert B. Bazemore

&#160; &#160; 48 &#160; &#160; President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Andrew E. Singer

&#160; &#160; 45 &#160; &#160; Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Robert A. Copeland, Ph.D.

&#160; &#160; 59 &#160; &#160; President of Research and Chief Scientific Officer Peter T.C. Ho, M.D., Ph.D.

&#160; &#160; 54 &#160; &#160; Chief Development Officer Robert B. Bazemore has served as a director and our President and Chief Executive Officer since joining us in September 2015. Prior to joining us, from September 2014 to July 2015, Mr. Bazemore, served as the Chief Operating Officer of Synageva BioPharma Corp., a biopharmaceutical company developing therapeutic products for rare disorders. Prior to joining Synageva, Mr. Bazemore served in increasing levels of responsibility at Johnson &#38; Johnson, a healthcare company, including Vice President, Centocor Ortho Biotech Sales &#38; Marketing from 2008 to 2010, President of Janssen Biotech from March 2010 to October 2013 and Vice President of Global Surgery at Ethicon from October 2013 to September 2014. Prior to Johnson &#38; Johnson, Mr. Bazemore worked at Merck &#38; Co., Inc. for eleven years, where he served in a variety of roles in medical affairs, sales and marketing. Mr. Bazemore is the chairman of the board of Pennsylvania Bio, a life sciences industry group. He received a B.S. in biochemistry from the University of Georgia. 

Andrew E. Singer has served as our Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since February 2015. Prior to joining us, from 2004 to January 2015, Mr. Singer served in increasing levels of responsibility in the Health Care Investment Banking Group at RBC Capital Markets Corporation, or RBC, an investment bank, serving as a Managing Director from 2007 to 2015. Prior to joining RBC, Mr. Singer worked at Petkevitch &#38; Company, co-founded MVC Capital, and worked at Robertson, Stephens &#38; Co, The Shansby Group and The Blackstone Group. Mr. Singer serves on the board of directors of the J.F. Kapnek Trust. Mr. Singer received a B.A. from Yale University and an M.B.A. from Harvard University Graduate School of Business. 

Robert A. Copeland, Ph.D. has served as our President of Research and Chief Scientific Officer since January 2015 and previously served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer from September 2008 to January 2015. Prior to joining us, from January 2003 to September 2008, Dr. Copeland was Vice President, Cancer Biology, Oncology Center of Excellence in Drug Discovery, at GSK, a pharmaceutical company. Before joining GSK, Dr. Copeland held scientific staff positions at Merck Research Laboratories of Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a biopharmaceutical company, and a faculty position at the University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine. Dr. Copeland received a B.S. in chemistry from Seton Hall University, a Ph.D. in chemistry from Princeton University and did postdoctoral studies as the Chaim Weizmann Fellow at the California Institute of Technology. 

Peter T.C. Ho, M.D., Ph.D. has served as our Chief Development Officer since September 2014. Prior to joining us, from February 2013 to September 2014, Dr. Ho served as Chief Executive Officer of Metastagen Inc., a pharmaceutical preparation company that he co-founded. Prior to that, Dr. Ho served as President of BeiGene Ltd., a biopharmaceutical company that he co-founded, from October 2010 to December 2012, as Vice President of Oncology Development at Johnson &#38; Johnson from September 2008 to September 2010 and, prior to that, as Senior Vice President of the Oncology Center of Excellence for Drug Development at GSK. Dr. Ho is a board-certified pediatric hematologist/oncologist and was formerly a fellow at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, the National Cancer Center Institute, or NCI, and the FDA. He received a B.A. in biology from the Johns Hopkins University and an M.D. and Ph.D. (pharmacology) from the Yale University School of Medicine. 

&#160;

Our Corporate Information 

We were incorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware on November 1, 2007 under the name Epizyme, Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Technology Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139. Our telephone number is (617) 229-5872, and our website is located at www.epizyme.com. References to our website are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on our website located at www.epizyme.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;). These reports are also available at the SEC&#146;s Internet website at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

A copy of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are posted on our website, www.epizyme.com, under &#147;Investor Center&#148; and are available in print to any person who requests copies by contacting Epizyme by calling (617) 229-5872 or by writing to Epizyme, Inc., 400 Technology Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139. 

