 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

CryoLife, Inc. (&#147;CryoLife,&#148; the &#147;Company,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; or &#147;us&#148;), incorporated in 1984 in Florida, is a leader in medical device manufacturing and distribution and in the processing and distribution of implantable human tissues for use in cardiac and vascular surgeries. CryoLife&#146;s surgical sealants and hemostats include BioGlue &#174; Surgical Adhesive (&#147;BioGlue&#148;), BioFoam &#174; Surgical Matrix (&#147;BioFoam&#148;), and PerClot &#174; , an absorbable powdered hemostat, which the Company distributes internationally for Starch Medical, Inc. (&#147;SMI&#148;). CryoLife&#146;s CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy product line, which includes a laser console system and single-use, fiber-optic handpieces, is used for the treatment of coronary artery disease in patients with severe angina. CryoLife is the exclusive distributor of ProCol &#174; Vascular Bioprosthesis (&#147;ProCol&#148;) for Hancock Jaffe Laboratories, Inc. (&#147;Hancock Jaffe&#148;). CryoLife marketed the Hemodialysis Reliable Outflow Graft (&#147;HeRO &#174; Graft&#148;) through February 3, 2016. Both HeRO Graft and ProCol are solutions for end-stage renal disease (&#147;ESRD&#148;) in certain hemodialysis patients. CryoLife is the exclusive distributor of PhotoFix TM for Genesee Biomedical, Inc. (&#147;GBI&#148;). PhotoFix is a bovine pericardial patch stabilized using a dye-mediated photo-fixation process that requires no glutaraldehyde. The cardiac and vascular human tissues distributed by CryoLife include the CryoValve &#174; SG pulmonary heart valve (&#147;CryoValve SGPV&#148;) and the CryoPatch &#174; SG pulmonary cardiac patch tissue (&#147;CryoPatch SG&#148;), both of which are processed using CryoLife&#146;s proprietary SynerGraft &#174; technology. 

Recent Events 

Acquisition of On-X Life Technologies 

On December 22, 2015 the Company entered into the Agreement and Plan of Merger to acquire On-X Life Technologies Holdings, Inc., (&#147;On-X&#148;), an Austin, Texas-based, privately held mechanical heart valve company. The transaction closed on January 20, 2016 and On-X will be operated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of CryoLife. 

The On-X catalogue of products includes the On-X prosthetic aortic and mitral heart valve and the On-X ascending aortic prosthesis (&#147;AAP&#148;). On-X also distributes CarbonAid CO 2 diffusion catheters, manufactures Chord-X ePTFE sutures for mitral chordal replacement, and offers pyrolytic carbon coating services to other medical device manufacturers. 

The On-X heart valve is a bileaflet mechanical valve composed of a graphite substrate coated with On-X&#146;s pyrolytic carbon coating. The On-X heart valve is available for both aortic and mitral indications and with a variety of sewing ring options to suit physician&#146;s preferences. The On-X AAP is an On-X aortic valve combined with a Vascutek Gelweave Valsava TM Graft to allow physicians to more conveniently treat patients requiring both an aortic valve replacement and an aortic graft. 

All mechanical valve patients require anticoagulation therapy with warfarin which creates a risk of harmful bleeding. The On-X aortic heart valve is the only mechanical valve U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#147;FDA&#148;) approved and clinically proven to be safer with less warfarin. In a prospective randomized clinical trial comparing reduced warfarin to standard warfarin dose in On-X aortic heart valve patients, the reduced warfarin dose group had 65% fewer harmful bleeding events without an increase in stroke risk. 

The On-X heart valve is FDA approved for the replacement of diseased, damaged, or malfunctioning native or prosthetic heart valves in the aortic and mitral positions, and is classified as a Class III medical device. On-X distributes the On-X heart valve under Conformit&#233; Europ&#233;ene Mark product certification (&#147;CE Mark&#148;) in the EEA. Additional marketing approvals have been granted in several other countries throughout the world. On-X&#146;s heart valves compete primarily with mechanical valves from St. Jude Medical, Inc., Medtronic, Inc., and LivaNova PLC based on its benefits and features, such as its lower warfarin requirement, low turbulence, and increased thromboresistance. 

The On-X facility consists of approximately 75,000 square feet of combined manufacturing, warehouse, and office space in Austin, Texas. As of December 31, 2015 On-X had approximately 135 employees. 

Divestiture of the HeRO Graft Product Line 

On February 3, 2016 the Company sold its HeRO Graft product line to Merit Medical Systems, Inc. (&#147;Merit&#148;) for $18.5 million in cash. Under terms of the agreement, Merit acquired the HeRO Graft product line, including worldwide marketing 

&#160;

rights, customer relationships, intellectual property, inventory, and certain property and equipment. The Company will continue to manufacture the HeRO Graft for up to six months under a transition supply agreement, after which Merit will be responsible for manufacturing. The disposal of the HeRO Graft is part of a strategic shift of the Company to focus on cardiac surgery products, including the On-X heart valve. 

The HeRO Graft product line was included as part of the Company&#146;s Medical Devices segment. The Company is in the process of completing the accounting related to this sale, including an allocation of its medical device segment goodwill to the divested business using a relative fair value allocation method. The Company anticipates recording a gain on the transaction upon the completion of the accounting. The assets divested in this transaction did not meet the criteria to be reported as assets held for sale as of December 31, 2015. 

Corporate Structure 

CryoLife&#146;s main operating subsidiaries include CryoLife Europa Ltd. (&#147;Europa&#148;), established in 2000 to provide marketing and distribution support in the European Economic Area (&#147;EEA&#148;), the Middle East, and Africa (collectively &#147;EMEA&#148;), CryoLife Asia Pacific, Pte. Ltd. (&#147;CryoLife Asia Pacific&#148;), established in Singapore in 2013 to provide sales and marketing support for the Asia Pacific region, CryoLife France, SAS, established in 2015 to provide direct sales operations in France, and On-X, acquired on January 20, 2016 as discussed above. CryoLife acquired Cardiogenesis Corporation and its cardiac laser therapy product line in May 2011 and Hemosphere, Inc. (&#147;Hemosphere&#148;) and its HeRO Graft product in May 2012. These companies were operated as subsidiaries of CryoLife from their respective acquisition dates until December 31, 2014, when they were merged into the CryoLife, Inc. parent entity. 

Segments and Geographic Information 

CryoLife has two reportable segments organized according to its products and services: Medical Devices and Preservation Services. The Medical Devices segment includes external revenues from product sales of BioGlue, BioFoam, PerClot, CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy, HeRO Graft, and ProCol. The Preservation Services segment includes external services revenues from the preservation of cardiac and vascular tissues. See also Part II, Item 8, Note 19 of the &#147;Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#148; for further information on the Company&#146;s segments and for the Company&#146;s geographic information. 

Strategy 

The Company&#146;s strategic plan is focused on four growth vectors in the cardiac surgery space which are expected to drive the Company&#146;s business expansion in the near term. These growth vectors and their key elements are described below: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; New Products &#150; Drive growth through the rollout of the Company&#146;s new products including the On-X heart valve, PhotoFix, and PerClot; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; New Indications &#150; Broaden the reach of certain of the Company&#146;s products, including the On-X heart valve, BioGlue, and PerClot, with new or expanded approvals and indications in the U.S. or in international markets; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Global Expansion &#150; Expand the Company&#146;s current products and services into new markets, including emerging markets, and accelerate growth by developing new direct sales territories overseas; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Business Development &#150; Selectively pursue potential acquisition, licensing, or distribution rights of companies or technologies that complement CryoLife&#146;s existing products, services, and infrastructure and expand our footprint in the cardiac surgery space, such as the recent acquisition of On-X, as well as divestitures of certain of our non-cardiac surgery product lines, such as HeRO Graft, to be able to focus on expanding our cardiac surgery footprint. Products, Services, Markets, and Competition 

The Company&#146;s products and preservation services are used to treat a variety of medical conditions. A discussion of each market in which the Company competes and a description of the Company&#146;s products and/or services that compete within each market are discussed below. 

The Company faces competition from several domestic and international medical device, pharmaceutical, and biopharmaceutical companies and from both for profit and non-profit tissue banks. Many of the Company&#146;s current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial and personnel resources than the Company. These competitors may also have greater experience in developing products, procuring tissues, conducting clinical trials, and obtaining regulatory approvals and may have large contracts with hospitals under which they can impose purchase requirements that place the 

&#160;

Company&#146;s products at a disadvantage. Certain of these competitors may obtain patent protection or approval or clearance by the FDA or foreign regulators earlier than the Company. The Company may also compete with companies that have superior manufacturing efficiency, tissue processing capacity, and/or marketing capabilities. Additional competitive products may be under development which could compete with the Company&#146;s products or services in the future. There can be no assurance that the Company&#146;s current or future competitors will not succeed in developing alternative technologies, products, or services that have significant advantages over those that have been, or are being developed, by the Company or that would render the Company&#146;s products or technology obsolete and non-competitive. Any of these competitive disadvantages could materially, adversely affect the Company. Specific competitive products currently on the market are discussed in the sections below. 

Surgical Sealants 

Closing internal wounds effectively following surgical procedures is critical to the restoration of the function of tissue and to the ultimate success of the surgical procedure. Failure to effectively seal surgical wounds can result in leakage of blood in cardiac surgeries, air in lung surgeries, cerebrospinal fluid in neurosurgeries, and gastrointestinal contents in abdominal surgeries. Fluid, air, and content leakage resulting from surgical procedures can lead to prolonged hospitalization, higher levels of post-operative pain, higher costs, and a higher mortality rate. 

Sutures and staples facilitate healing by joining wound edges to allow the body to heal naturally. However, sutures and staples cannot consistently eliminate air and fluid leakage at the wound site, particularly when used to close tissues containing air or fluids under pressure, such as in blood vessels, the lobes of the lung, the dural membrane surrounding the brain and spinal cord, and the gastrointestinal tract. In some cases, the tissues may be friable, which complicates the ability to achieve closure. In addition, it can be difficult and time consuming for the physician to apply sutures and staples in minimally invasive surgical procedures where the physician must operate through small access openings. The Company believes that the use of surgical adhesives and sealants with, or without, sutures and staples could enhance the efficacy of these procedures through more effective and rapid wound closure. In order to address the inherent limitations of sutures and staples, the Company developed and commercialized its protein hydrogel technology (&#147;PHT&#148;) platform. The PHT platform is based on a bovine protein that mirrors an array of amino acids that perform complex functions in the human body. Together with a cross-linker, the protein forms a hydrogel, a water-based biomaterial somewhat similar to human tissue. Materials and implantable replacement devices created with PHT may have the potential to provide structure, form, and function similar to certain human tissues. CryoLife developed and currently markets the surgical sealants BioGlue and BioFoam from its PHT platform. 

BioGlue 

CryoLife&#146;s proprietary product, BioGlue, is a polymer consisting of bovine blood protein and an agent for cross-linking proteins, which was developed for use in cardiac, vascular, pulmonary, and general surgical applications. BioGlue has a tensile strength that is four to five times that of fibrin sealants, and it is stronger than other cardiovascular sealants. BioGlue begins to polymerize within 20 to 30 seconds and reaches its bonding strength within two minutes. BioGlue is dispensed by a controlled delivery system that consists of a disposable syringe, which may be used with, or without, a multi-use delivery device, and various applicator tips. BioGlue is pre-filled in 2ml, 5ml, and 10ml volumes. Applicator tips are available in standard size, 12mm and 16mm spreader tips, 10cm and 27cm flexible extender tips, and 10cm, 27cm, and 35cm delivery tip extenders. 

BioGlue is FDA approved as an adjunct to sutures and staples for use in adult patients in open surgical repair of large vessels. CryoLife distributes BioGlue under Conformit&#233; Europ&#233;ene Mark product certification (&#147;CE Mark&#148;) in the EEA for repair of soft tissues (which include cardiac, vascular, pulmonary, and additional soft tissues). CryoLife also distributes BioGlue in Japan which is indicated for adhesion and support of hemostasis for aortotomy closure sites, suture/anastomosis sites (including aortic dissection and anastomosis sites with use of a prosthetic graft), and suture sites on the heart. Additional marketing approvals have been granted for specified applications in several other countries throughout the world. 

CryoLife distributes BioGlue throughout the U.S. and in approximately 80 other countries. Revenues from BioGlue represented 40%, 43%, and 41%, of total Company revenues in each of 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

The Company&#146;s BioGlue products compete primarily with sealants from Baxter International, Inc., Ethicon, Inc. (a Johnson &#38; Johnson Company), Integra LifeSciences Holdings Corporation, C.R. Bard, Inc. (&#147;Bard&#148;), and Mallinckrodt PLC. The Company&#146;s BioGlue competes with these products based on its benefits and features, such as strength and ease of use. 

&#160;

BioFoam 

CryoLife&#146;s proprietary product, BioFoam, is a protein hydrogel biomaterial with an expansion agent, which generates a mixed-cell foam. The foam creates a mechanical barrier to decrease blood flow and develops pores for the blood to enter, leading to cellular aggregation and enhanced hemostasis. BioFoam was developed to rapidly seal organs, such as the liver, and for use in cardiovascular surgeries, and may provide hemostasis in penetrating wounds and trauma. It is easily applied and could potentially be used intra-operatively to control internal organ hemorrhage, limit blood loss, and reduce the need for future re-operations in liver resections. 

CryoLife distributes BioFoam in Europe under a CE Mark for use as an adjunct in the sealing of abdominal parenchymal tissues (liver and spleen) and as an adjunct to hemostasis in cardiovascular surgery when cessation of bleeding by ligature or other conventional methods is ineffective or impractical. 

CryoLife distributes BioFoam in approximately 44 countries, primarily in Europe. Revenues from BioFoam represented less than 1% of total Company revenues in each of 2015, 2014, and 2013. 

The Company&#146;s BioFoam product competes with sealants from Pfizer, Inc., Baxter International, Inc., Ethicon, Inc., Bard, and Orthovita, Inc. The Company&#146;s BioFoam product competes on the basis of its clinical efficacy and ease of use. 

Hemostats 

Hemostatic agents are frequently utilized as an adjunct to sutures and staples to control inter-operative bleeding. Hemostatic agents prevent excess blood loss and can help maintain good visibility of the operative site. These products may reduce operating room time and decrease the number of blood transfusions required in surgical procedures. Hemostatic agents are available in various forms including pads, sponges, liquids, and powders. CryoLife currently markets the hemostatic agent PerClot. 

PerClot 

PerClot is an absorbable powdered hemostat, consisting of plant starch modified into ultra-hydrophilic, adhesive-forming hemostatic polymers. PerClot granules are biocompatible, absorbable polysaccharides containing no animal or human components. The purified plant source material helps to minimize the risks of infection and bleeding-related complications during surgery. PerClot granules have a molecular structure that rapidly absorbs water, forming a gelled adhesive matrix that provides a mechanical barrier to further bleeding and results in the accumulation of platelets, red blood cells, and coagulation proteins (thrombin, fibrinogen, etc.) at the site of application. This gelled adhesive matrix promotes the normal physiological clotting cascade. PerClot does not require additional operating room preparation or special storage conditions and is easy to apply. PerClot is readily dissolved by saline irrigation and is totally absorbed by the body within several days. PerClot is currently available in 1 gram, 3 gram, and 5 gram configurations with a 100mm or 200mm applicator tip for certain sizes. PerClot Laparoscopic is available in a 3 gram configuration with a 380mm applicator tip. In September 2010 CryoLife entered into a distribution agreement and a license and manufacturing agreement with SMI, which allows CryoLife to distribute PerClot worldwide, except in China, Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, North Korea, Iran, and Syria. 

PerClot has a CE Mark allowing commercial distribution into the EEA and other markets. PerClot is indicated for use in surgical procedures, including cardiac, vascular, orthopaedic, neurological, gynecological, ENT, and trauma surgery as an adjunct hemostat when control of bleeding from capillary, venular, or arteriolar vessels by pressure, ligature, and other conventional means is either ineffective or impractical. CryoLife distributes PerClot in Europe and other international countries. CryoLife plans to begin distribution of PerClot in additional international markets as required regulatory approvals are obtained. 

In April 2014 CryoLife received 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market PerClot Topical in the U.S. PerClot Topical is a version of the Company&#146;s PerClot product, which was manufactured by the Company at its headquarters and labeled for use in certain topical indications. CryoLife launched PerClot Topical in August 2014. However, in March 2015 CryoLife ceased all marketing, sales, and distribution of PerClot, including PerClot Topical, in the U.S. in accordance with the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware (&#147;the Court&#148;) order that granted the motion of Medafor Inc. (&#147;Medafor&#148;) for a preliminary injunction in its patent dispute with CryoLife. In November 2015 CryoLife and Medafor entered into a resolution to end this patent dispute. As part of the resolution, the Court&#146;s preliminary injunction entered in March 2015 precluding CryoLife&#146;s marketing, sale, or distribution of PerClot in the U.S. will remain in effect until the expiration of Medafor&#146;s U.S. Patent No. 6,060,461 (the &#147;&#146;461 Patent&#148;) on February 8, 2019. See Part I, Item 3, &#147;Legal Proceedings&#148; for discussion of the Company&#146;s litigation with Medafor. 

&#160;

CryoLife has received approval to begin clinical trials for the purpose of obtaining FDA Premarket Approval (&#147;PMA&#148;) to distribute PerClot in the U.S., as discussed further in &#147;Research and Development and Clinical Research&#148; below. 

CryoLife distributes PerClot in approximately 58 countries. Revenues from PerClot represented 3% of total Company revenues in each of 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

The Company&#146;s PerClot products compete with various hemostats including thrombin products from Pfizer, Inc., Mallinckrodt PLC, and Ethicon, Inc., and surgical hemostats from Pfizer, Inc., Bard, Baxter International, Inc., Ethicon, Inc., and BioCer Entwicklungs-GmbH. Other competitive products may include argon beam coagulators, which provide an electrical source of hemostasis. A number of companies have surgical hemostat products under development. The Company&#146;s PerClot Topical product competes with many of the same products listed above, but also competes with products from Medtronic, Inc., Polyganics B.V., and Hemostasis, LLC, as well as gauze and chemical cauterization. The Company&#146;s PerClot products compete on the basis of safety, clinical efficacy, absorption rates, and ease of use. 

Angina Treatment 

Angina consists of pressure, discomfort, and/or pain in the chest typically due to narrowed or blocked arteries, resulting in ischemic heart disease. Patients with severe angina are often treated with surgical procedures including angioplasty or coronary artery bypass or with medications such as aspirin, nitrates, beta blockers, statins, or calcium channel blockers. Pain may be chronic or may become pronounced with exercise. Angina can also be treated with Transmyocardial Revascularization (&#147;TMR&#148;), a procedure that can be performed as an open surgical procedure or through a minimally invasive surgery either as a stand-alone procedure or concurrently with coronary artery bypass. During TMR, the surgeon uses a disposable handpiece to deliver precise bursts of laser energy directly to an area of heart muscle that is suffering from ischemic heart disease through a small incision or small ports with the patient under general anesthesia and without stopping the heart. TMR is typically performed with a CO 2 or Holmium: YAG laser. It takes approximately 6 to 10 pulses of the laser to traverse the myocardium and create channels of one millimeter in diameter. During a typical procedure, approximately 20 to 40 channels are made in the heart muscle. The external openings seal with little blood loss. Published research provides evidence that these channels promote the growth of new blood vessels or angiogenesis over time. That, in turn, provides the damaged heart tissue a better supply of blood and oxygen. Angina usually subsides with improved oxygen supply to the targeted areas of the damaged heart muscle. CryoLife currently sells the CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy product line to perform TMR. 

CardioGenesis Cardiac Laser Therapy 

CryoLife&#146;s CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy product line consists of Holmium: YAG laser consoles, related service and maintenance, and single-use, fiber-optic handpieces, which are used in TMR to treat patients with severe angina resulting from diffuse coronary artery disease. Patients undergoing TMR treatment with CardioGenesis products have been shown to have angina reduction, longer event-free survival, reduction in cardiac related hospitalizations, and increased exercise tolerance. CryoLife&#146;s SolarGen 2100s Console (&#147;Console&#148;) uses the solid state technology of the Holmium: YAG laser system to provide a stable and reliable energy platform that is designed to deliver precise energy output. The Console has an advanced electronic and cooling system technology, which allows for a smaller and lighter system, while providing 115V power capability. The Company also provides service plan options to ensure that the Console is operating within the critical factory specifications. CryoLife distributes the SoloGrip &#174; III, and the P ort E nabled A ngina R elief with L aser (&#147;PEARL&#148;) 5.0 disposable handpieces, which consist of multiple, fine fiber-optic strands in a one millimeter diameter bundle and are designed to work with the Console. The SoloGrip III handpiece has an ergonomic design and is pre-calibrated in the factory to provide easy and convenient access for treating all regions of the left ventricle. The PEARL 5.0 handpiece is compatible for use with Intuitive Surgical&#146;s da Vinci Surgical System for use in minimally invasive surgeries. 

The CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy product line is FDA approved for treating patients with severe angina that is not responsive to conventional therapy. CryoLife began distributing the CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy product line, primarily in the U.S., in May 2011 when it completed the acquisition of Cardiogenesis Corporation. Although the CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy product line has a CE Mark allowing commercial distribution into the EEA, CryoLife does not actively market the product line internationally. 

CryoLife distributes handpieces and CardioGenesis laser consoles primarily in the U.S. Revenues from CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy represented 6% of total Company revenues in each of 2015, 2014, and 2013. 

The Company&#146;s CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy competes with other methods for the treatment of coronary artery disease, including drug therapy, percutaneous coronary intervention, coronary artery bypass surgery, and enhanced external 

&#160;

counterpulsation. Currently, the only directly competitive laser technology for the performance of TMR is the CO 2 Heart Laser System manufactured by Novadaq Technologies, Inc. The Company&#146;s revascularization technology competes on the basis of its ease of use, versatility, size of laser console, and improved access to the treatment area with a smaller fiber-optic system. 

Vascular Access 

ESRD refers to the stage of renal disease when the kidneys do not work well enough for the patient to live without dialysis or transplant. This can result in severe electrolyte disturbance and toxic levels of waste products in the blood which are normally filtered and eliminated by the kidneys. Patients with ESRD often undergo hemodialysis to remove waste products and fluid from the blood, which can take several hours per treatment and often must be performed multiple times each week. Individuals may seek a kidney transplant for a more permanent solution to ESRD, but may wait for months or years before a donor organ is available. In order to perform hemodialysis, blood must be taken from the body, cleaned, and returned to the body through an access site. Typical access sites used to perform hemodialysis include arteriovenous (&#147;AV&#148;) fistulas, synthetic or biologic vascular access grafts, or catheters. AV fistulas and vascular access grafts may take weeks or months to mature before they can be used as an access site. Catheters are often the last option for vascular access as they tend to have a higher risk of becoming occluded or infected. CryoLife currently markets ProCol and previously marketed the HeRO Graft for vascular access. 

ProCol 

ProCol is a biological graft derived from a bovine mesenteric vein that provides vascular access for ESRD hemodialysis patients. ProCol provides vascular access for ESRD patients in an earlier stage of the treatment protocol than the HeRO Graft. In March 2014 CryoLife entered into a distribution agreement with Hancock Jaffe, which grants CryoLife the exclusive right to distribute ProCol worldwide. Clinical data shows that ProCol provides excellent patency for patients who have had repeated failures of other grafts. ProCol is FDA approved for sale in the U.S. as a bridge graft for vascular access subsequent to at least one previously failed prosthetic access graft. 

CryoLife distributes ProCol in the U.S. Revenues from ProCol represented 1% of total Company revenues in 2015 and less than 1% of total Company revenues in 2014. 

ProCol competes with products including balloon angioplasty products from Bard and Boston Scientific Corp., bare metal stents from Boston Scientific Corp., and covered stents from W.L. Gore &#38; Associates (&#147;Gore&#148;). ProCol competes on the basis of its superior handling characteristics, long-term patency, and lower rates of infection, thrombosis, and intervention compared to synthetic grafts. 

HeRO Graft 

The HeRO Graft is a proprietary graft-based solution for ESRD hemodialysis patients with limited access options and central venous stenosis (narrowing of the venous system). 

The HeRO Graft has a 510(k) clearance from the FDA for ESRD patients who are either catheter dependent or approaching catheter dependency, on long-term hemodialysis, and have exhausted all other access options, as well as for patients with failing fistulas and grafts due to central venous stenosis. The HeRO Graft received a CE Mark in 2013. CryoLife began distributing the HeRO Graft in the U.S. in May 2012 when it acquired Hemosphere and distributed the product until the Company divested the product line in February 2016. 

CryoLife distributed the HeRO Graft in the U.S. and approximately 40 other countries. Revenues from the HeRO Graft represented 5%, 5%, and 4% of total Company revenues in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

Cardiac and Vascular Repair and Reconstruction 

Patients with congenital cardiac defects such as Tetralogy of Fallot, Truncus Arteriosis, and Pulmonary Atresia can require complex cardiac reconstructive surgery to repair the defect. Patients with heart disease can experience valve insufficiency, regurgitation, or stenosis that may require heart valve repair or replacement surgery. Cardiac surgery can include the implantation of biological tissues, such as donated human tissues or animal-derived (xenograft) tissues, synthetic tissues, or mechanical valves. Human heart valves allow for more normal blood flow and provide higher cardiac output than animal-derived and mechanical heart valves. Human heart valves are not as susceptible to progressive calcification, or hardening, as are traditional glutaraldehyde-fixed, animal-derived heart valves, and do not require anti-coagulation drug 

&#160;

therapy, as do mechanical valves. The synthetic sewing rings contained in many animal based or mechanical valves may harbor bacteria and lead to endocarditis, which can be difficult to treat with antibiotics, and this usually necessitates the surgical removal of these valves at considerable cost, morbidity, and risk of mortality. Consequently, for many physicians, human heart valves are the preferred alternative to animal-derived and mechanical valves for patients who have, or are at risk to contract, endocarditis. 

The 2013 Society of Thoracic Surgeons Guidelines, as published in the Annals of Thoracic Surgery, have increased the indication (from Class II to Class I) and broadened the scope for using an aortic homograft during aortic valve replacement surgery due to endocarditis. This means that when endocarditis has functionally destroyed the aortic valve annulus, an aortic homograft is the recommended course of treatment. Previously, the Guidelines&#146; indication for aortic homograft use was Class II, which meant only that it was an acceptable course of treatment. 

Patients with peripheral vascular disease can experience reduced blood flow, usually in the arms and legs. This can result in poor circulation, pain, and sores that do not heal. Failure to achieve revascularization of an obstructed vessel may result in the loss of a limb or even death of the patient. When patients require peripheral bypass surgery, the surgeon&#146;s first choice generally is the patient&#146;s own tissue (autograft). However, in cases of advanced vascular disease, patients may not have suitable vascular tissue for transplantation, and the surgeon must consider using synthetic grafts or donated human vascular tissue. Synthetic vascular grafts are generally not optimal for below-the-knee surgeries because they have a tendency to obstruct over time. Human vascular tissues tend to remain open longer and, as such, are used in indications where synthetic grafts typically fail. In addition, synthetic grafts are not suitable for use in infected areas since they may harbor bacteria and are difficult to treat with antibiotics. Therefore, human vascular tissues have advantages for patients with previously infected graft sites. Human vascular and arterial tissues are used in a variety of other reconstruction procedures such as cardiac bypass surgery and as vascular access grafts for hemodialysis. However, for each procedure that may utilize vascular human tissue, there are alternative treatments including the repair, partial removal, or complete removal of the damaged tissue. 

Tissue procured from deceased human donors can be used in a variety of medical procedures to treat both congenital and acquired conditions as discussed above. The transplant of human tissue that has not been preserved must be accomplished within extremely short time limits. Cryopreservation, or cooling and storing at extremely cold temperatures, expands the treatment options available by extending these timelines. 

CryoLife currently markets its cardiac preservation services, including its CryoValve and CryoValve SG tissues for heart valve replacement surgeries and its CryoPatch and CryoPatch SG tissues for cardiac repair procedures. CryoLife currently markets its vascular preservation services, including its CryoVein &#174; and CryoArtery &#174; tissues for vascular reconstruction surgeries. CryoLife currently distributes PhotoFix for cardiac and vascular repair. 

PhotoFix 

In 2014 CryoLife entered into an exclusive supply and distribution agreement with GBI to acquire the distribution rights to PhotoFix, a bovine pericardial patch stabilized using a dye-mediated photo-fixation process that requires no glutaraldehyde. PhotoFix, which was last commercially available in 2010, has received FDA 510(k) clearance and is indicated for use in intracardiac repair, including ventricular repair and atrial repair, great vessel repair and suture line buttressing, and pericardial closure. 

In January 2015 the Company received its initial shipments and launched its distribution of PhotoFix in the U.S. Revenues from PhotoFix represented 1% of total Company revenues in 2015. 

Cardiac and Vascular Preservation Services 

The Company&#146;s proprietary preservation process involves dissection, processing, preservation, and storage of tissues by the Company, until they are shipped to an implanting physician. The tissues currently preserved by the Company include aortic and pulmonary heart valves; cardiac patches in three primary anatomic configurations: pulmonary hemi-artery, pulmonary trunk, and pulmonary branch; and vascular tissues including, saphenous veins, aortoilliac arteries, and femoral veins and arteries. Each of these tissues maintains a structure which more closely resembles and simulates the performance of the patient&#146;s own tissue compared to non-human tissue alternatives. The Company&#146;s cardiac tissues have been used in a variety of valve replacement and cardiac reconstruction surgeries. The Company&#146;s vascular tissues have been used to treat a variety of vascular reconstructions, such as peripheral bypass, hemodialysis access, and aortic infections, which have saved the lives and limbs of patients. Management believes the human tissues it distributes offer specific advantages over mechanical, synthetic, and animal-derived alternatives. Depending on the alternative, the advantages of the Company&#146;s heart 

&#160;

valves include more natural blood flow properties, the ability to use the valve with patients who have endocarditis, the elimination of a need for long-term drug therapy to prevent excessive blood clotting, and a reduced risk of catastrophic failure, thromboembolism (stroke), or calcification. 

The Company&#146;s cardiac tissues include the CryoValve SGPV and the CryoPatch SG, both processed with the Company&#146;s proprietary SynerGraft decellularization technology. CryoLife uses the SynerGraft technology for a significant portion of its pulmonary valve and pulmonary cardiac patch tissue processing. 

CryoLife distributes human cardiac and vascular tissues to implanting institutions throughout the U.S. CryoLife also distributes tissues in Canada and has limited distribution through a special access program in Germany. The Company&#146;s CryoValve SGPV and CryoPatch SG are distributed under 510(k) clearance from the FDA. 

Revenues from cardiac tissue preservation services accounted for 19%, 20%, and 21% of total Company revenues in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Revenues from vascular preservation services accounted for 24%, 23%, and 25% of total Company revenues in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

Management believes that at least one domestic tissue bank, LifeNet Health, Inc. (&#147;LifeNet&#148;), offers preserved human heart valves and patches in competition with the Company. Alternatives to human heart valves processed by the Company include valve repair and valve replacement with xenograft valves or mechanical valves. The Company competes with xenograft or mechanical valves from companies including Medtronic, Inc., Edwards Life Sciences, Inc., LivaNova and St. Jude Medical, Inc. Alternatives to the Company&#146;s human cardiac patches include xenograft small intestine submucosa (&#147;SIS&#148;) and xenograft patches. The Company competes with xenograft and SIS products from companies including CorMatrix Cardiovascular, Inc., Edwards Life Sciences, Inc., Admedus, Inc., St. Jude Medical, Inc., and Synovis Surgical Innovations. 

Management believes that the human heart valves preserved by the Company compare favorably with xenograft and mechanical valves, for certain indications and patient populations, and that the human cardiac patches preserved by the Company compare favorably with xenograft SIS and xenograft patches, due to the benefits of human tissue discussed above. In addition, human tissue is the preferred replacement alternative with respect to certain medical conditions, such as pediatric cardiac reconstruction, congenital cardiac defect repair, valve replacements for women in their child-bearing years, and valve replacements for patients with endocarditis. In addition, implantation of the SynerGraft treated cardiac tissue reduces the risk for induction of class I and class II alloantibodies, based on Panel Reactive Antibody (&#147;PRA&#148;) measured at up to one year, compared to standard processed cardiac tissues. The Company believes that this may provide a competitive advantage for CryoValve SGPV and CryoPatch SG for potential whole organ transplant recipients, as an increased PRA can decrease the number of possible donors for subsequent organ transplants and increase time on transplant waiting lists. 

Management believes that at a small number of domestic tissue banks, including LifeNet, Restoreflow Allografts, and Vascular Transplant Services, offer vascular tissue in competition with the Company. There are also a number of providers of synthetic alternatives to veins preserved by the Company and those alternatives are available primarily in medium and large diameters. The Company&#146;s vascular tissues compete with products from Gore, Bard, Artegraft, Inc., and Maquet, Inc. 

Management believes that it competes with other entities that preserve human tissue on the basis of the preference of surgeons, documented clinical data, technology, customer service, and quality assurance. Management believes the Company offers advantages in the areas of clinical data and customer service, particularly with respect to the capabilities of our field representatives, as compared to other human tissue processors. 

Marketing and Distribution 

In the U.S. the Company markets its products and preservation services primarily to physicians, and distributes its products through its direct sales team to hospitals and other healthcare facilities. During 2015 the Company&#146;s cardiac specialists focused primarily on marketing the Company&#146;s products and services to cardiac surgeons, and cardiovascular field service representatives focused primarily on vascular surgeons. In January 2016 the Company reorganized its U.S. salesforce such that each domestic sales representative markets, with limited exception, the entire suite of CryoLife&#146;s product offerings. The Company also has a team of region managers, national accounts managers, and sales and marketing management. Through its field representatives, the Company conducts field training for surgeons regarding the surgical applications of its products and tissues. 

CryoLife&#146;s physician relations and education staff, clinical research staff, and field representatives assist physicians by providing educational materials, seminars, and clinics on methods for using Company products and implanting tissue 

&#160;

preserved by the Company. The Company sponsors programs where surgeons train other surgeons in best-demonstrated techniques. In addition, the Company hosts several workshops throughout the year including the Central Venous Pathology Summit, Aortic Root Bootcamp, Aortic Allograft Workshops, and TMR Workshops. These workshops aim to provide didactic and hands-on training to surgeons. The Company also produces educational videos for physicians and coordinates peer-to-peer training at various medical institutions. Management believes that these activities enhance the medical community&#146;s acceptance of the products and tissues offered by the Company and help to differentiate the Company from other medical device companies and tissue processors. To assist organ and tissue procurement organizations (&#147;OTPOs&#148;), the Company provides educational materials and training on procurement, dissection, packaging, and shipping techniques. The Company produces educational videos and coordinates laboratory sessions for OTPO personnel to improve their recovery techniques and increase the yield of usable tissue. The Company also maintains a staff 24 hours per day, 365 days per year for OTPO support. 

The Company markets its products in the EMEA region through its European subsidiary, Europa, based in Guildford, England. Europa employs direct field service representatives in the U.K., Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Ireland, and France and manages relationships with other independent distributors in the EMEA region. Europa provides customer service, logistics, marketing, and clinical support to cardiac, vascular, thoracic, and general surgeons throughout the EMEA region. 

The Company markets and distributes its products in other international markets through independent distributors in Canada, Asia Pacific, and the Americas. The Company&#146;s Singapore subsidiary, CryoLife Asia Pacific, provides sales and marketing support for the Asia Pacific region. 

Suppliers, Sources, and Availability of Raw Materials and Tissues 

The Company obtains many of its raw materials and supplies from a small group of suppliers or a single-source supplier. CryoLife also distributes various products through distribution agreements with the manufacturers. Certain raw materials and components used in the Company&#146;s products and tissue processing have stringent specifications. Supply interruptions or supplier quality, financial, or operational issues could cause the Company to have to temporarily reduce, temporarily halt, or permanently halt manufacturing, processing, or distribution activities. Qualifying alternative suppliers could result in additional costs or lengthy delays, or may not be possible. Any of these adverse outcomes could have a material, adverse effect on the Company&#146;s revenues or profitability. Supplies of materials are discussed for each of the Company&#146;s main products and services below. See also Part I, Item 1A, &#147;Risk Factors.&#148; 

The Company&#146;s BioGlue and BioFoam products have three main product components: bovine protein, a cross linker, and a molded plastic resin delivery device. The bovine protein and cross linker are obtained from a small number of qualified suppliers. The delivery devices are manufactured by a single supplier, using resin supplied by a single resin supplier. The Company maintains a significant inventory of finished delivery devices to help mitigate the effects of a potential supply interruption. 

The Company purchases PerClot from SMI pursuant to a distribution agreement. The Company maintains an inventory of PerClot purchased from SMI to satisfy its distribution needs and places regular orders for additional product. CryoLife&#146;s business is subject to interruption if SMI were unable or became unwilling to supply PerClot to CryoLife. 

The Company purchases laser consoles and handpieces for its CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy product line each from a separate single-source contract manufacturer. Using a secondary supplier for the laser consoles may be difficult because of certain of this manufacturer&#146;s patent rights. In addition, these manufacturers obtain certain laser and fiber-optic components and subassemblies from single sources. CryoLife&#146;s business is subject to interruption if either of these contract manufacturers or their suppliers became unable or unwilling to do business with CryoLife. 

Several HeRO Graft components are purchased from single sources, including key components such as the ePTFE arterial graft and nitinol braid. As discussed in Recent Events above, CryoLife divested the HeRO Graft product line in February 2016. CryoLife will continue to manufacture product during a short transition period of up to six months after the divestiture, and Merit will provide the necessary components during this transition period. 

The Company&#146;s preservation services business and its ability to supply needed tissues is dependent upon donation of tissues from human donors by donor families. Donated human tissue is procured from deceased human donors by OTPOs. The Company must rely on the OTPOs that it works with to educate the public on the need for donation, to foster a willingness to donate tissue, to follow CryoLife&#146;s donor screening and procurement procedures, and to send donated tissue to CryoLife. Since 1984 the Company has received tissue from over 136,000 donors. The Company has active relationships 

&#160;

with approximately 50 OTPOs throughout the U.S. Management believes these relationships are critical in the preservation services industry and that the breadth of these existing relationships provides the Company with a significant advantage over potential new entrants to this market. The Company also uses various raw materials, including medicines and solutions in its processing. Some of these raw materials are manufactured by single suppliers or by a small group of suppliers. All of these factors subject CryoLife to risk of supply interruption. 

Operations, Manufacturing, and Tissue Preservation 

The Company maintains a corporate headquarters and laboratory and an additional off-site warehouse both located in Kennesaw, Georgia. The Company manufactures BioGlue, BioFoam, and PerClot, and processes tissues at the Company&#146;s headquarters facility. The Company&#146;s corporate headquarters also includes a CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy maintenance and evaluation laboratory space. The Company maintains a secondary facility consisting of manufacturing and office space in Atlanta, Georgia. The Company currently manufactures HeRO Grafts at the Atlanta, Georgia facility. The Company&#146;s European subsidiary, Europa, leases office space in Guildford, England, and shared warehousing space through its third-party shipper. See also Part I, Item 2, &#147;Properties.&#148; 

In all of the Company&#146;s facilities, the Company is subject to regulatory standards for good manufacturing practices, including current Quality System Regulations, which are the FDA regulatory requirements for medical device manufacturers, and current Good Tissue Practices (&#147;cGTPs&#148;), which are the FDA regulatory requirements for the processing of human tissue. The Company also operates according to International Organization for Standardization (&#147;ISO&#148;) 13485 Quality System Requirements, an internationally recognized voluntary system of quality management for companies that design, develop, manufacture, distribute, and service medical devices. The Company maintains a Certification of Approval to the ISO 13485. Lloyd&#146;s Register Quality Assurance Limited (&#147;LRQA&#148;) issues this approval. LRQA is a Notified Body officially recognized by the EU to perform assessments of compliance with ISO 13485 and the Medical Device Directive. The Medical Device Directive is the governing document for the EEA that details requirements for safety and risk. LRQA also performs assessments of compliance with the Canadian Medical Devices Conformity Assessment System (&#147;CMDCAS&#148;). 

The Company employs a comprehensive quality assurance program in all of its product manufacturing and tissue preservation activities. All materials, solutions, and components utilized in the Company&#146;s manufacturing and tissue processing are received and inspected by trained quality control personnel according to written specifications and standard operating procedures, and only items found to comply with Company standards are utilized in the Company&#146;s operations. Materials, components, sub-assemblies, and tissues are documented throughout manufacturing or processing to assure traceability. 

The Company evaluates and inspects both its manufactured and distributed products to ensure conformity to product specifications. Processes are validated to produce products meeting the Company&#146;s specifications. Each process is documented along with all inspection results, including final finished product inspection and acceptance. Records are maintained as to the consignees of products to track product performance and to facilitate product removals or corrections, if necessary. 

The Company maintains controls over its tissue processing to ensure conformity with Company procedures. OTPOs must follow the Company&#146;s policies related to tissue recovery practices, and are subject to periodic audits to confirm compliance. Samples are taken from donated tissue for microbiological testing, and tissue must be shown to be free of certain detectable microbial contaminants before being released for distribution. Tissue processing records and donor information is reviewed to identify characteristics which would disqualify the tissue for processing or implantation. Once tissue is released for distribution, it is moved from quarantine to an implantable status. Tissue is stored by the Company until it is shipped to a hospital, where the tissue is thawed and implanted immediately or held in a liquid nitrogen freezer pending implantation. 

Government Regulation 

Medical devices and human tissues are subject to a number of regulations from various government bodies including in the U.S., federal, state, and local governments, as well as various regulatory bodies internationally. Government regulations are continually evolving, and requirements may change with or without notice. Changes in government regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing government regulations could have a material, adverse impact on the Company. See also Part I, Item 1A, &#147;Risk Factors.&#148; 

&#160;

U.S. Federal Regulation of Medical Devices 

The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (&#147;FDCA&#148;) provides that, unless exempted by regulation, medical devices may not be distributed in the U.S. unless they have been approved or cleared for marketing by the FDA. Medical devices may receive such approval or clearance through either a 510(k) process or an investigational device exemption (&#147;IDE&#148;) and PMA process. 

Under a Section 510(k) process, a medical device manufacturer provides a premarket notification that it intends to begin marketing a product and shows that the product is substantially equivalent to another legally marketed predicate product. To be found substantially equivalent to a predicate device, the device must be for the same intended use and have either the same technological characteristics or different technological characteristics that do not raise new questions of safety or effectiveness. In some cases, the submission must include data from clinical studies in order to demonstrate substantial equivalency to a predicate device. Marketing may commence when the FDA issues a clearance letter finding such substantial equivalence. 

FDA regulations require approval through the IDE/PMA process for all Class III medical devices and for medical devices not deemed substantially equivalent to a predicate device. An IDE authorizes distribution of devices that lack PMA or 510(k) clearance for clinical evaluation purposes. Devices subject to an IDE are subject to various restrictions imposed by the FDA, including restrictions on the number of patients to be treated and the number of institutions at which the device may be used. Patients must give informed consent to be treated with an investigational device and review by an Institutional Review Board is needed. The device must be labeled that it is for investigational use and may not be advertised or promoted. The price charged for the device may be limited. Unanticipated adverse events for devices used in an IDE must be reported to the FDA. After a product is subjected to clinical testing under an IDE, the Company may file a PMA application. PMA applications must be supported by valid scientific evidence to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. A PMA application is typically a complex submission, usually including the results of human clinical studies, and preparing an application is a detailed and time-consuming process. Once a PMA application has been submitted, the FDA&#146;s review may be lengthy and may include requests for additional data, which may require the Company to undertake additional human clinical studies. Marketing of the device may begin when the FDA has approved the PMA. 

FDCA requires all medical device manufacturers and distributors to register with the FDA annually and to provide the FDA with a list of those medical devices they distribute commercially. FDCA also requires manufacturers of medical devices to comply with labeling requirements and to manufacture devices in accordance with Quality System Regulations, which require that companies manufacture their products and maintain their documents in a prescribed manner with respect to good manufacturing practices, including: design, document production, process, labeling and packaging controls, process validation, and other quality control activities. The FDA&#146;s medical device reporting regulation requires that a device manufacturer provide information to the FDA on death or serious injuries alleged to have been associated with the use of its products, as well as product malfunctions that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA further requires that certain medical devices that may not be sold in the U.S. follow certain procedures before they are exported. The FDA periodically inspects Company facilities to review Company compliance with these and other regulations and has authority to seize non-complying medical devices, enjoin and/or impose civil penalties on manufacturers and distributors marketing non-complying medical devices, criminally prosecute violators, and order recalls in certain instances. 

The following Company products are, or would, upon approval, be classified as Class III medical devices: BioGlue, BioFoam, PerClot, ProCol, and CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy. CryoPatch SG and HeRO Graft are classified as Class II medical devices. CryoLife obtained 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market the CryoValve SGPV; however, these tissues are not officially classified as Class II or III medical devices. 

U.S. Federal Regulation of Human Tissue 

The FDA regulates human tissues pursuant to Section 361 of the Public Health Services Act, which in turn provides the regulatory framework for regulation of human cellular and tissue products. The FDA regulations focus on donor screening and testing to prevent the introduction, transmission, and spread of HIV-1 and -2, Hepatitis B and C, and other communicable diseases and disease agents. The regulations set minimum requirements to prevent the transmission of communicable diseases from human tissue used for transplantation. The regulations define human tissue as any tissue derived from a human body which is (i) intended for administration to another human for the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of any condition or disease and (ii) recovered, preserved, stored, or distributed by methods not intended to change tissue function or characteristics. The FDA definition excludes, among other things, tissue that currently is regulated as a human drug, biological product, or medical device, and it also excludes kidney, liver, heart, lung, pancreas, or any other vascularized 

&#160;

human organ. The current regulations applicable to human tissues include requirements for donor suitability, processing standards, establishment registration, product listing, testing, and screening for risks of communicable diseases. The FDA periodically audits the Company&#146;s tissue preservation facilities for compliance with its requirements and has the authority to enjoin, force a recall, or require the destruction of tissues that do not meet its requirements. 

NOTA Regulation 

The Company&#146;s activities in preserving and transporting human hearts and certain other organs are also subject to federal regulation under the National Organ Transplant Act (&#147;NOTA&#148;), which makes it unlawful for any person to knowingly acquire, receive, or otherwise transfer any human organ for valuable consideration for use in human transplantation if the transfer affects interstate commerce. NOTA excludes from the definition of &#147;valuable consideration&#148; reasonable payments associated with the removal, transportation, implantation, processing, preservation, quality control, and storage of a human organ. The purpose of this statutory provision is to allow for compensation for legitimate services. The Company believes that to the extent its activities are subject to NOTA, it meets this statutory provision relating to the reasonableness of its charges. There can be no assurance, however, that restrictive interpretations of NOTA will not be adopted in the future that would call into question one or more aspects of the Company&#146;s methods of charging for its preservation services. 

State Licensing Requirements 

Some states have enacted statutes and regulations governing the preservation, transportation, and storage of human organs and tissues. The activities the Company engages in require it to be either licensed or registered as a clinical laboratory or tissue bank under California, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, New York, Oregon, and Pennsylvania law. The Company has such licenses or registrations, and the Company believes it is in compliance with applicable state laws and regulations relating to clinical laboratories and tissue banks that store, preserve, and distribute human tissue designed to be used for medical purposes in human beings. However, there can be no assurance that more restrictive state laws or regulations will not be adopted in the future that could materially, adversely affect the Company&#146;s operations. Certain employees of the Company have obtained other required state licenses. The regulatory bodies of the above states may perform inspections of the Company&#146;s facilities as required to ensure compliance with state laws and regulations. 

International Approval Requirements 

Sales of medical devices and shipments of human tissues outside the U.S. are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. Approval of a product by comparable regulatory authorities of other countries must be obtained and compliance with applicable regulations for tissues must be met prior to commercial distribution of the products or human tissues in those countries. The time required to obtain these approvals may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. Countries in which CryoLife distributes products and tissue may perform inspections of the Company facilities to ensure compliance with local country regulations. 

The EEA recognizes a single medical device approval, called a CE Mark, which allows for distribution of an approved product throughout the EEA without additional general applications in each country. However, individual EEA members reserve the right to require additional labeling or information to address particular patient safety issues prior to allowing marketing. Third-parties called &#147;Notified Bodies&#148; award the CE Mark. These Notified Bodies are approved and subject to review by the &#147;Competent Authorities&#148; of their respective countries. The Company&#146;s Notified Body, LRQA, performs periodic on-site inspections, generally at least annually, to independently review the Company&#146;s compliance with its systems and regulatory requirements. A number of countries outside of the EEA accept the CE Mark in lieu of marketing submissions as an addendum to that country&#146;s application process. The Company has been issued CE Marks for BioGlue, BioFoam, CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy consoles and handpieces, and the HeRO Graft. Additionally, PerClot, which the Company distributes, has a CE Mark. 

The EU Tissue and Cells Directives (&#147;EUTCD&#148;) established an approach to the regulation of tissues and cells across Europe. Pursuant to the EUTCD, each country in the EEA has responsibility for regulating tissues and cells and the procurement and distribution of tissues and cells for use in humans through a Competent Authority. The Competent Authority in the U.K. is the Human Tissue Authority (&#147;HTA&#148;). Europa was a &#147;Licensed Establishment&#148; under HTA Directions. In 2013 the HTA temporarily suspended Europa&#146;s licenses but shortly thereafter reinstated them subject to certain conditions, which allowed Europa to continue importing tissues into Europe. Subsequently, the HTA imposed certain additional tissue processing requirements for tissues imported into Europe through the HTA license. Management did not believe those requirements were necessary in order to ensure the safety of the processed tissue, and, as a result, Europa ceased importing tissues into Europe through the HTA licenses as of March 31, 2014. 

&#160;

CryoLife currently distributes tissues through a special access program in Germany. In the first half of 2015 Germany&#146;s regulatory authorities and Europa were in discussions regarding requirements to allow Europa to market tissue in Germany. Europa was unable to reach a satisfactory agreement with the German authorities regarding those requirements, and although nominal shipments under the special access program have continued in 2015, there can be no assurance that the German authorities will continue to allow shipments of tissues under this program in the future. 

Recent Regulatory Approvals 

In July 2015 Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Device Agency approval was received for an expanded indication for use of BioGlue for adhesion and support of hemostasis for aortotomy closure sites, suture/anastomosis sites (including aortic dissection and anastomosis sites with a use of a prosthetic graft), and suture sites on the heart. 

In addition, several new country listings were obtained during 2015 to allow additional distribution of certain products into international markets, including BioGlue, BioFoam, PerClot, HeRO Grafts, and Cardiogenesis cardiac laser therapy products. 

Certifications, Accreditations, and Inspections 

In March 2015 the FDA conducted a re-inspection of CryoLife, Inc. On April 23, 2015 the FDA notified CryoLife that the company had addressed the violations contained in the FDA&#146;s January 29, 2013 warning letter, related to the Company&#146;s manufacture of products and processing, preservation, and distribution of human tissue, and the FDA&#146;s subsequent 2014 Form 483. 

In September 2015 LRQA conducted a routine surveillance assessment to ISO 13485:2003 and Canadian CMDCAS requirements. No nonconformities were identified. 

All registrations, licensures, certifications, and accreditations were renewed or continued and no regulatory actions are pending from state inspections. 

Backlog 

The Company currently does not have a backlog of orders related to BioGlue, BioFoam, PerClot, CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy, HeRO Grafts, PhotoFix, or ProCol. The limited supply of certain types or sizes of preserved tissue can result in a backlog of orders for these tissues. The amount of backlog fluctuates based on the tissues available for shipment and varies based on the surgical needs of specific cases. The Company&#146;s backlog is generally not considered firm and must be confirmed with the customer before shipment. 

Research and Development and Clinical Research 

The Company uses its technical and scientific expertise to identify market opportunities for new products or services or to expand the use of its current products and services, through expanded indications or product or tissue enhancements. The Company&#146;s research and development strategy is to allocate available resources among the Company&#146;s core market areas based on the potential market size, estimated development time and cost, and the expected efficacy for any potential product or service offering. To the extent the Company identifies additional applications for its products, the Company may attempt to license these products to corporate partners for further development or seek funding from outside sources to continue commercial development. The Company may also attempt to acquire or license additional technologies from third-parties to supplement its product lines. 

Research on these and other projects is conducted in the Company&#146;s research and development laboratory or at universities or clinics where the Company sponsors research projects, under the supervision of the Company&#146;s medical and scientific advisory board. The Company also conducts preclinical and clinical studies at universities and other third-party locations under contract with the Company. Research is inherently risky, and any potential products or tissues under development may not ultimately be deemed safe and effective and, therefore, may not generate any revenues for the Company. The Company&#146;s clinical research department also collects and maintains clinical data on the use and effectiveness of its products and services. The Company uses this data to provide feedback to physicians on the benefits of the Company&#146;s products and services and to help direct its continuing improvement efforts. 

The Company&#146;s research and development and clinical research staff includes individuals with advanced degrees, including Ph.Ds., with specialties in the fields of chemistry (protein, material, organic, and bio); biomaterials; molecular 

&#160;

biology; and engineering. In 2015, 2014, and 2013 the Company spent approximately $10.4 million, $8.7 million, and $8.5 million, respectively, on research and development activities on new and existing products. These amounts represented approximately 7%, 6%, and 6% of the Company&#146;s revenues for each of 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

CryoLife is in the process of developing or investigating several new products and technologies, as well as changes and enhancements to its existing products and services. 

In March 2014 CryoLife received approval of its IDE for PerClot from the FDA. IDE approval allows the Company to begin clinical trials for the purpose of obtaining a PMA to distribute PerClot in the U.S. As part of the approval for the PerClot IDE, the FDA recommended several study design considerations. The Company made revisions to the investigational study protocol and most recently refiled the IDE submission on December 2, 2014. In December 2014 CryoLife received approval of the supplement to its IDE for PerClot from the FDA. This approval allows the Company to begin its pivotal clinical trial to gain approval to commercialize PerClot for surgical indications in the U.S. The Company began enrollment in the second quarter of 2015. Enrollment in the clinical trial was slower than anticipated, and the Company voluntarily suspended enrollment in the clinical trial pending discussions with the FDA to modify the IDE study protocol. These planned modifications will need to be approved by the FDA in an IDE supplement. Depending on the outcome of those discussions, the Company will determine when it anticipates resuming enrollment in the clinical trial. If the Company is able to resume enrollment in the clinical trial during 2016, the Company would expect to receive PMA from the FDA in early 2019. See also Part I, Item 1A, &#147;Risk Factors&#151;Risks Relating To Our Business&#151;Our investment in PerClot is subject to significant risks, and our ability to fully realize our investment is dependent on our ability to obtain FDA approval and to successfully commercialize PerClot in the U.S.&#148; 

In November 2012 CryoLife received an additional indication in Europe to market its BioFoam as an adjunct to hemostasis in cardiovascular surgery when cessation of bleeding by ligature or other conventional methods is ineffective or impractical. In 2015 the Company completed enrollment of a 75 patient post-market study at two centers in Europe on BioFoam used in cardiovascular applications. The Company expects to complete the final study report in the first quarter of 2016. 

At the FDA&#146;s request, the Company conducted a post-clearance study to collect long-term clinical data for the CryoValve SGPV. Data collected in this study was compared to data from a defined control group implanted with a standard processed human pulmonary heart valve. The information obtained from this study demonstrated the ten-year durability of the CryoValve SGPV. The study was completed in December 2014, and the results were submitted to the FDA. The results from the study will be presented at the American Association for Thoracic Surgery annual meeting in May 2016. 

The Company&#146;s strategies for driving growth include new product indications and global expansion. These activities will likely require additional research, new clinical studies, and/or compilation of clinical data. The Company is currently seeking regulatory approval for BioGlue in China. In addition, the Company may decide to pursue expanded U.S. indications for BioGlue and approvals for the Company&#146;s products in new international markets. 

Patents, Licenses, and Other Proprietary Rights 

The Company relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, confidentiality agreements, and security procedures to protect its proprietary products, preservation technology, trade secrets, and know-how. The Company believes that its patents, trade secrets, trademarks, and technology licensing rights provide it with important competitive advantages. The Company has also obtained additional rights through license and distribution agreements for additional products and technologies, including PerClot, ProCol, and PhotoFix. The Company owns or has licensed rights to 45 U.S. patents and 18 foreign patents, including patents that relate to its technology for BioGlue and BioFoam, PHT, PerClot, CardioGenesis cardiac laser therapy, HeRO Graft, cardiac and vascular tissue preservation, and decellularization of tissue. The Company has 6 pending U.S. patent applications and 14 pending foreign applications that relate to the Company&#146;s products and services. There can be no assurance that any patent applications pending will ultimately be issued as patents. 

The remaining duration of the Company&#146;s issued patents range from 3 months to 17 years. The main patent for BioGlue expired in mid-2012 in the U.S. and expired in mid-2013 in the majority of the rest of the world. Although the patent for BioGlue has expired, this technology is still protected by trade secrets and manufacturing know-how, as well as the time and expense to obtain regulatory approvals. See also Part II, Item 8 Note 4 and Note 13 of the &#147;Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#148; for additional discussion of the Company&#146;s contractual rights related to PerClot, ProCol, and PhotoFix. 

The Company has confidentiality agreements with its employees, several of its consultants, and third-party vendors to maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information. There can be no assurance that the obligations of 

&#160;

the Company&#146;s employees and third-parties, with whom the Company has entered into confidentiality agreements, will effectively prevent disclosure of the Company&#146;s confidential information, or provide meaningful protection for the Company&#146;s confidential information if there is unauthorized use or disclosure, or that the Company&#146;s trade secrets or proprietary information will not be independently developed by the Company&#146;s competitors. 

See Part I, Item 1A, &#147;Risk Factors&#148; for a discussion of risks related to the Company&#146;s patents, licenses, and other proprietary rights. 

Seasonality 

See Part II, Item 7, &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#151;Seasonality,&#148; regarding seasonality of the Company&#146;s products and services. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 CryoLife and its subsidiaries had approximately 540 employees. None of the Company&#146;s employees are represented by a labor organization or covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and the Company has never experienced a work stoppage or interruption due to labor disputes. Management believes its relations with its employees are good. 

Environmental Matters 

The Company&#146;s tissue preservation activities generate some biomedical wastes, consisting primarily of human and animal pathological and biological wastes, including human and animal tissue and body fluids removed during laboratory procedures. The biomedical wastes generated by the Company are placed in appropriately constructed and labeled containers and are segregated from other wastes generated by the Company. The Company contracts with third-parties for transport, treatment, and disposal of biomedical waste. Although the Company believes it is in compliance in the disposal of its waste with applicable laws and regulations promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division, the failure by the Company, or the companies with which it contracts, to comply fully with any such regulations could result in an imposition of penalties, fines, or sanctions, which could materially, adversely affect the Company&#146;s business. 

Risk Factors 

CryoLife&#146;s business is subject to a number of risks. See Part I, Item 1A, &#147;Risk Factors&#148; below for a discussion of these and other risk factors. 

Available Information 

It is the Company&#146;s policy to make all of its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, available free of charge on the Company&#146;s website, www.cryolife.com , on the day of filing. All such filings made on or after November 15, 2002 have been made available on this website. 

&#160;

