 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Hawkins, Inc. distributes, blends and manufactures chemicals and specialty ingredients for our customers in a wide variety of industries. We began our operations primarily as a distributor of bulk chemicals with a strong customer focus. Over the years, we have maintained our strong customer focus and have expanded our business by increasing our sales of value-added chemical products and specialty ingredients, including manufacturing, blending and repackaging certain products. We believe that we create value for our customers through superb service and support, quality products, personalized applications and trustworthy, creative employees. 

We currently conduct our business in three segments: Industrial, Water Treatment, and Health and Nutrition. Our Health and Nutrition segment was established as a result of our acquisition of Stauber Performance Ingredients (&#8220;Stauber&#8221;) in December 2015. Financial information regarding these segments is reported in Items 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Industrial Segment. Our Industrial Group specializes in providing industrial chemicals, products and services to industries such as agriculture, chemical processing, electronics, energy, food, pharmaceutical, plating and power generation. This group&#8217;s principal products are acids, alkalis and industrial and food-grade salts. 

The Industrial Group: 

&#8226; 

Receives, stores and distributes various chemicals in bulk quantities, including liquid caustic soda, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, phosphoric acid, potassium hydroxide and aqua ammonia; 

&#8226; 

Manufactures sodium hypochlorite (bleach), agricultural products and certain food-grade products, including liquid phosphates, lactates and other blended products; 

&#8226; 

Repackages water treatment chemicals for our Water Treatment Group and bulk industrial chemicals to sell in smaller quantities to our customers; 

&#8226; 

Performs custom blending of chemicals according to customer formulas and specifications; and 

&#8226; 

Performs contract and private label bleach packaging. 

The group&#8217;s sales are concentrated primarily in Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, North Dakota, South Dakota, Tennessee and Wisconsin while the group&#8217;s food-grade products are sold nationally. The Industrial Group relies on a specially trained sales staff that works directly with customers on their specific needs. The group conducts its business primarily through distribution centers and terminal operations. 

Water Treatment Segment. Our Water Treatment Group specializes in providing chemicals, equipment and solutions for potable water, municipal and industrial wastewater, industrial process water and non-residential swimming pool water. This group has the resources and flexibility to treat systems ranging in size from a single small well to a multi-million-gallon-per-day facility. 

The group utilizes delivery routes operated by our employees who typically serve as route driver, salesperson and trained technician to deliver our products and diagnose our customers&#8217; water treatment needs. We believe that the high level of service provided by these individuals allows us to serve as the trusted water treatment expert for many of the municipalities and other customers that we serve. We also believe that there are significant synergies between our Water Treatment and Industrial Groups in that we are able to obtain a competitive cost position on many of the chemicals sold by the Water Treatment Group due to the volumes of these chemicals purchased by our Industrial Group. In addition, our Industrial and Water Treatment groups share certain of our facilities, which leverage fixed costs across both groups. 

The group operates out of warehouses in 29 cities supplying products and services to customers primarily in Arkansas, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Wyoming. We entered the Florida market in fiscal 2015 through our acquisition of substantially all the assets of The Dumont Company, Inc. (&#8220;Dumont&#8221;), with seven operating locations. In addition, we added two new branches in fiscal 2016 and one new branch in fiscal 2014. We expect to continue to invest in existing and new branches to expand the group&#8217;s geographic coverage. Our Water Treatment Group has historically experienced higher sales during April to September, primarily due to a seasonal increase in chemicals used by municipal water treatment facilities. 

Health and Nutrition Segment. We established the Health and Nutrition segment of our business in December 2015 through our acquisition of Stauber. Our Health and Nutrition Group specializes in providing ingredient distribution, processing and formulation solutions to manufacturers of nutraceutical, functional food and beverage, personal care, dietary supplement and other nutritional food and health and wellness products. This group offers a diverse product portfolio including minerals, botanicals and herbs, vitamins and amino acids, excipients, joint products, sweeteners and enzymes. 

The Health and Nutrition Group relies on a specially trained sales and product development staff that works directly with customers on their specific needs. The group&#8217;s extensive product portfolio combined with value-added services, including product formulation, sourcing and distribution, processing and blending and quality control and compliance, positions this group as a one-stop ingredient solutions provider to its customers. The group operates out of facilities in California and New York and its products are sold nationally and, in certain cases, internationally. 

Raw Materials. We have numerous suppliers, including many of the major chemical producers in the United States. We source our health and nutrition ingredients from a wide array of domestic and international vendors. We typically have written distributorship agreements or supply contracts with our chemical suppliers that are periodically renewed. We believe that most of the products we purchase can be obtained from alternative sources should existing relationships be terminated. We are dependent upon the availability of our raw materials. While we believe that we have adequate sources of supply for our raw material and product requirements, we cannot be sure that supplies will be consistently available in the future. In the event that certain raw materials become generally unavailable, suppliers may extend lead times or limit or cut off the supply of materials to us. As a result, we may not be able to supply or manufacture products for our customers. 

Intellectual Property. Our intellectual property portfolio is of economic importance to our business. When appropriate, we have pursued, and we will continue to pursue, patents covering our products. We also have obtained certain trademarks for our products to distinguish them from our competitors&#8217; products. We regard much of the formulae, information and processes that we generate and use in the conduct of our business as proprietary and protectable under applicable copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws. 

Customer Concentration. In fiscal 2016, none of our customers accounted for 10% or more of our total sales. Sales to our largest customer represented approximately 5% of our total sales in fiscal 2016, 6% of our total sales in fiscal 2015 and 7% of our total sales in fiscal 2014. Aggregate sales to our five largest customers, all of which are in our Industrial segment, represented approximately 14% of our total sales in fiscal 2016, 18% of our total sales in fiscal 2015 and 21% of our total sales in fiscal 2014. No other customer represented more than 2% of our total sales in fiscal 2016. The loss of any of our largest customers, or a substantial portion of their business, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Competition. We operate in a competitive industry and compete with many producers, distributors and sales agents offering products equivalent to substantially all of the products we offer. Many of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial resources, although no one competitor is dominant in the markets we serve. We compete by offering quality products at competitive prices coupled with outstanding customer service and value-added services or product formulation where needed. Because of our long-standing relationships with many of our suppliers, we are often able to leverage those relationships to obtain products when supplies are scarce or to obtain competitive pricing. 

Geographic Information. Substantially all of our revenues are generated by sales to customers within, and long-lived assets are located in, the United States. Just slightly more than 1% of our total revenues were from sales to customers outside of the U.S. in fiscal 2016, and less than 1% of our revenues were from sales to customers outside of the U.S. in both fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014. 

Working Capital. Due to the nature of our operations, which includes purchases of large quantities of bulk chemicals, the timing of purchases can result in significant changes in working capital and the resulting operating cash flow. Historically, our cash requirements for working capital increase during the period from April through November as caustic soda inventory levels increase as the majority of barges are received during this period. Additionally, due to seasonality of the Water Treatment business, our accounts receivable balance is generally higher during the period of April through September. 

Employees. We had 636 employees as of April 3, 2016, including 60 covered by collective bargaining agreements. 

About Us. Hawkins, Inc. was founded in 1938 and incorporated in Minnesota in 1955. We became a publicly-traded company in 1972. Our principal executive offices are located at 2381 Rosegate, Roseville, Minnesota. 

Available Information. We have made available, free of charge, through our Internet website (http://www.hawkinsinc.com), our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Reports of beneficial ownership filed by our directors and executive officers pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act are also available on our website. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

