 Item 1. Description of Business 

Forward Looking Statements 

This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. These statements often can be identified by the use of terms such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "approximate" or "continue," or the negative thereof. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors for such statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Any forward-looking statements represent management's best judgment as to what may occur in the future. However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and important factors beyond our control that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from historical results of operations and events and those presently anticipated or projected. We disclaim any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statement or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.

General 

Asteriko Corp. was incorporated in the State of Nevada on April 17, 2014. Our offices are located at 616 Corporate Way, Suite 2-6834, Valley Cottage, NY 10989. 

We are a company with limited earnings to date and nominal operations and assets with a focus on early-stage business activities such as proof of concept development, small batch manufacturing and promoting our new technology. Since incorporation, management has developed a detailed business plan to provide customers with unique and innovative solution for their decorative needs. Our initial product is lattice panels designed for suspended ceiling. These panels will dynamically change the color of their surface with the change of the viewing angle and / or the type of illumination. 

Products/Services 

Description of Product or Services 

Our initial product will be color changing lattice panels designed for suspended ceiling.

The idea of color changing surfaces is not new. Color decomposition of reflected light also known as refraction combined with light interference is a known effect and is used in automotive industry for development of special paints.

Our approach is to achieve similar results using different and more cost effective technology. This approach is based on ability of an average human eye to blend reflected lights and view them as a single color. The type of color depends on combination of base colors (red, blue, and green) in the reflection. All color TVs use similar principle to achieve multicolor effect. The main difference with our proposal is that TV generates light whereas we use the surface reflection. Only select material can be used to achieve this effect the surface of the material should have special geometrical figures on a small level and each painted with at least 3 different colors. 

Prior to creating Asteriko Corp. our President has done many experiments and discovered that simple 3D transparent rectangular grid structure could act as a color changing decorative element by simply applying different colors to different faces of the 3D grid. Viewed from different angles, such structure appears to have not only different but also dynamically changing color depending of the viewpoint of the observer. 

The grid density and the height of each individual rectangular cell defines the light transparency of the element, if back lit, as well as the sensitivity of the color shifting to a different viewing angle. Desired color changing effects can also be achieved through the application of directional spray painting to randomly oriented micro-surfaces. 

We are beginning to experiment with rigid and soft foam. It is our understanding that foam sheets of 0.5 &#148; to 1.0 &#148; thick, rigid or soft, could be made as 3D lattices of adjacent polygons, much like certain types of packing foam. Having painted each face of the polygon into different color will create desired color changing illusion if viewed from different directions.

Our plan is to carry out a phased approach in establishing and developing Asteriko Corp. The first phase will focus on developing and refining design solutions and producing samples The second phase will be production and manufacturing. 

Phase one: 

a)

select the most effective way to make a given surface to change its color

b)

identify the materials to be used

c)

manufacture and sell small batches of different materials such as ceiling panels as a proof of concept to see if our products generate interest

d)

enhance directional spray painting process to achieve better quality

e)

document the technological process and our &#147; know how &#148; 

Phase two:

a)

advertise our product and technology

b)

negotiate with suppliers and manufacturers of the foam panels of desired geometry. Currently suppliers such as Clark Foam Products Corp. and several others all capable of manufacturing an initial monochromatic 3D foam lattices 

c)

establish distribution network 

d)

expand our technology to other materials used for surface decorations capitalizing the basic working principle of the 3D rectangular color changing grid 

In case of successful growth of our business, necessary funds will be available through operating profits to further optimize present technique for making color changing rectangular lattices and foam panels as well as establishing proper manufacturing. It will also be possible to start producing samples of color changing ceramic or stamped metal tiles. 

Target Market and Clients/potential Clients 

The main target market for our products and services will include retail and commercial establishments where unique and original appearance is an integral part of their success. We will also provide design solutions and materials to the residential sector.

Our potential customers will be in the following potential sectors:

First Phase:

&#149; 

Building contractors and industrial design and architecture companies

&#149; 

Home owners for new builds or renovations

Future phases:

&#149; 

Retail establishments e.g. boutique and specialty stores 

&#149; 

Commercial establishments including restaurants, night clubs, theaters, hotels and fitness clubs

&#149; 

Geographically at the initial stage of our development we &#146; ll target the North American markets

Source of revenue 

Our main of source of revenue will initially be the sales of design solutions to the house and building designers and constructors i.e.:

1.

Design of color-shifting suspended ceiling panels to customer-provided specifications

2.

Consulting on application and integration of our panels into customer interior or exterior design.

Additional revenue stream is expected to come from manufacturing of color-shifting suspended ceiling surfaces for home owners as well as retail and commercial establishments in the future.

Marketing Strategy 

In order to attract customers and promote products, our company has created the website. We will also market through online advertisements. For online and website advertising we will use the following methods:

&#149; 

Link our site to free web directories

&#149; 

Use shared online advertisement facilities

&#149; 

Distribute online banners to attract more attention from the customers and provide credibility to the product by including customer feedback

&#149; 

Advertise through classified ads and blogs

&#149; 

Add our website address to the relevant search engines 

We will also advertise through local and global classified ads and social networking. Sales brochures will be printed to provide necessary company product and service information. We will organize onsite presentations for perspective clients with sample demonstrations.

Competition and Competitive Strategy 

There is a small number of potential competitors that provide some elements of what Asteriko Corp., will offer to its customers. However, no direct competition exists since the product that our company develops is unique to design and construction industry. It uses innovative technological solution that is low cost and economical. 

Several differences in application arise when comparing our technology to color changing paint technology as well as some colored light arrangements. The main difference in application is simplicity as one can imagine the installation of a ceiling panel or wall panel compared to painting or running electricity. No major surface preparation is required. Another significant difference is flexibility of installation in terms of design and final appearance. Taking rectangular grid ceiling panel as example, not only various ornamental combinations could be applied right at the customer site but also customer is left with the ability to adjust and even entirely change the appearance of the ceiling by rotating and relocating individual panels.

There is also a difference in application of our innovative technology. Once we fully launch operations we expect to compete successfully on a basis of price, quality and novelty of our product. 

Currently, our competitive position within the industry is negligible in light of the fact that we have just recently started our operations.

Sources and Availability of Products and Supplies 

We believe that our President &#146; s industry experience and connections will enable us to develop the various aspects of the business. Mr. Tomski has experience with design and engineering of products and creating promotion and marketing packages. While working as Research Scientist and Industrial Post Doctoral Fellow for Ionics Mass Spectrometry Group Inc., Mr. Tomski (in addition to his main duties as research scientist) has been actively involved in promoting the company products through installations, demonstrations and training provided to existing and potential customers around the world. He also promoted company &#146; s products through onsite and offsite presentations and industrial conferences. Throughout his career Mr. Tomski has been involved in design and manufacturing of hi-tech industrial equipment such as high vacuum systems for utilization in particle accelerator applications in general and for Accelerator Mass Spectrometry application in particular. Mr. Tomski has hands on experience in design, manufacturing and operation of ion optical elements such as atmospheric pressure to vacuum sampling interface, ion guides, ion collision cells that are vital components of commercial mass spectrometers for bio-medical applications. Mr. Tomski has also been involved in design and manufacturing of cryogenic systems for commercial superconducting gravity gradiometer; this includes design and manufacturing of superconducting electrical circuits and gradiometer sensor components. 

Currently he oversees design and manufacturing of superconducting gravity gradiometer sensor in the start-up company targeting major land exploration and natural resources surveying.

We believe there are no constraints on the sources or availability of products, materials and supplies related to the production of suspended panels.

Dependence on One or a Few Major Customers 

At this stage we sell small number of panels as a proof of concept to test the market reaction to our product.

We currently have only 4 customers (generated $3,808 in revenue to date) we plan to extend our market in the near future. 

Our products are applicable to a wide range of customers from individual home owners to commercial construction companies.

We believe because of the potentially broad base of customers for our services, we will not rely on one or few major customers. 

Our initial contract with &#147; Glik-Art &#148; was created to attract new customer with 20% discount for a period of 6 months. Due to different needs of the clients we cannot in advance include in the contract specific materials or design. For each specific order we disclose the type of materials to be used, design specifications and labor rates. Currently we don &#146; t have special relationships with these customers, 

other than contract with &#147; Glik-Art &#148; offering 20% discount for 6 months. Any customer may purchase our product based on their needs.

Patent, Trademark, License &#38; Franchise Restrictions and Contractual Obligations &#38; Concessions 

There are no inherent factors or circumstances associated with this industry, or any of the products or services that we expect to be providing that would give rise to any patent, trademark or license infringements or violations. We have not entered into any franchise agreements or other contracts that have given, or could give rise to obligations or concessions.

Out web domain and IP address as well as company information will be protected by our domain host.

We do not own, either legally or beneficially, any patents or trademarks.

Governmental and Industry Regulations 

We will be subject to federal and state laws and regulations that relate directly or indirectly to our operations including federal securities laws. We will also be subject to common business and tax rules and regulations pertaining to the normal business operations. 

Research and Development Activities and Costs 

We are capitalizing on prior scientific research and development that was done by our President and Director and have not yet spent any money on R&#38;D. Once this offering is completed we will have the resources to continue our R&#38;D program.

Compliance with Environmental Laws 

Our operations are not subject to any environmental laws.

Facilities 

We do not own or rent facilities of any kind. We plan to conduct our operations from the facilities that our President provides to us free of charge. These facilities located at 353 Bathurst Glen Dr. Thornhill, ON Canada and used primarily for manufacturing small batches of 3D lattice panel as a proof of concept and market testing.

Employees 

We have commenced only limited operations, and currently have two employees - our President and Director Mr. Tomski, who spends approximately fifteen hours a week on our business and our treasurer Ms. Tomskaia, who devotes up to five hours a week to company &#146; s operations. 

