 Item 1 &#151;Business 

Forward-Looking Statements 

Except for historical facts, the statements in this annual report are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are merely our current predictions of future events. These statements are inherently uncertain, and actual events could differ materially from our predictions. Important factors that could cause actual events to vary from our predictions include those discussed in this annual report under the heading "Risk Factors." We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements to reflect new information or developments. We urge readers to review carefully the risk factors described in this annual report and in the other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. You can read these documents at www.sec.gov. 

Additional Available Information 

Our principal internet address is www.crai.com. Our website provides a link to a third-party website through which our annual, quarterly, and current reports, and amendments to those reports, are available free of charge. We believe these reports are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. We do not maintain or provide any information directly to the third-party website, and we do not check its accuracy. 

Our website also includes information about our corporate governance practices. The Investor Relations page of our website provides a link to a web page where you can obtain a copy of our code of business conduct and ethics applicable to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer. We intend to make required disclosures of amendments to our code of business conduct and ethics, or waivers of a provision of our code of business conduct and ethics, on the Corporate Governance Documents page linked from the Investor Relations page of our website. 

Fiscal Year 

Our fiscal years periodically contain 53 weeks rather than 52 weeks. Fiscal 2015 was a 52-week year, fiscal 2014 was a 53-week year and fiscal 2013 was a 52-week year. 

Introduction 

We are a leading global consulting firm specializing in providing economic, financial and management consulting services. We advise clients on economic and financial matters pertaining to litigation and regulatory proceedings, and guide corporations through critical business strategy and performance-related issues. Since 1965, we have been engaged by clients for our unique combination of functional expertise and industry knowledge, and for our objective solutions to complex problems. We combine economic and financial analysis with expertise in litigation and regulatory support, business strategy and planning, market and demand forecasting, and policy analysis. We are often retained in high-stakes matters, such as multibillion-dollar mergers and acquisitions, new product introductions, major strategy and capital investment decisions, and complex litigation, the outcomes of which often have significant consequences for the parties involved. These matters often require independent analysis and, as a result, the parties involved must rely on outside experts. Our analytical strength enables us to reach objective, factual conclusions that help clients make important business and policy decisions and resolve critical disputes. Clients turn to us because we can provide highly credentialed and experienced economic and finance experts to address critical, tough assignments, with high-stakes outcomes. 

We offer consulting services in two broad areas: litigation, regulatory, and financial consulting and management consulting. These two areas represented approximately 99% of our consolidated revenues for fiscal 2015. The remaining 1% came from our majority-owned NeuCo subsidiary. We provide our consulting services primarily through our highly credentialed and experienced staff of employee consultants. As of January 2, 2016 we employed 511 consultants, which consisted of 389 senior staff and 

122 junior staff. Approximately three fourths of our senior staff has a doctorate or other advanced degree. Our employee consultants have backgrounds in a wide range of disciplines, including economics, business, corporate finance, materials sciences, accounting, and engineering. We are extremely selective in our hiring of consultants, recruiting from leading universities, industry, and government. Many of our employee consultants are nationally or internationally recognized as experts in their respective fields and have published scholarly articles, lectured extensively, and have been quoted in the press. They combine outstanding intellectual acumen with practical experience and in-depth understanding of industries and markets. To enhance the expertise we provide to our clients, we maintain close working relationships with a select group of renowned academic and industry non-employee experts. 

Our business is diversified across multiple dimensions, including service offerings and vertical industry coverage, as well as areas of functional expertise, client base, and geography. We believe this diversification reduces our dependence on any particular market, industry, or geographic area. 

We provide consulting services to corporate clients and attorneys in a wide range of litigation and regulatory proceedings, providing high-quality research and analysis, expert testimony, and comprehensive support in litigation and regulatory proceedings in all areas of finance, accounting, economics, insurance, and forensic accounting and investigations. We also use our expertise in economics, finance, and business to offer law firms, businesses, and government agencies services related to class certification, damages analysis, expert reports and testimony, regulatory analysis, strategy development, valuation of tangible and intangible assets, risk management, and transaction support. In our management consulting services, we use our expertise in economics, finance, and business analysis to offer our clients such services as strategy development, performance improvement, corporate strategy and portfolio analysis, estimation of market demand, new product pricing strategies, valuation of intellectual property and other assets, assessment of competitors' actions, and analysis of new sources of supply. Our analytical expertise in advanced economic and financial methods is complemented by our in-depth expertise in specific industries, including agriculture; banking and capital markets; chemicals; communications and media; consumer products; energy; entertainment; financial services; health care; insurance; life sciences; manufacturing; metals, mining, and materials; oil and gas; real estate; retail; sports; telecommunications; transportation; and technology. 

We have completed thousands of engagements for clients around the world, including domestic and foreign companies; Federal, state, and local domestic government agencies; governments of foreign countries; public and private utilities; and national and international trade associations. We also work with many of the world's leading law firms. We experience a high level of repeat business. 

We deliver our services through an international network of coordinated offices. Headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, we have offices throughout North America and Europe. 

Industry Overview 

Businesses are operating in an increasingly complex economic, legal, and regulatory environment. Our changing world economy has created immense challenges and opportunities for businesses. Companies across industry sectors are seeking new strategies appropriate for the current economic environment, as well as greater operational efficiencies. To accomplish these objectives, they must constantly gather, analyze, and use information wisely to assure that business decisions are well-informed. In addition, as markets have become global, companies have the opportunity to expand their presence throughout the world, which can expose them to increased competition and the uncertainties of foreign operations. Further, companies are increasingly relying on technological and business innovations to improve efficiency, thus increasing the importance of strategically analyzing their businesses and developing and protecting new technology. The increasing complexity and changing nature of the business environment are also forcing governments to modify their regulatory strategies. These constant changes in the regulatory environment and the pro-regulatory stance in the U.S. have led to frequent litigation and interaction with government agencies as companies attempt to interpret and react to the implications of this changing environment. Furthermore, as the general business and 

regulatory environment becomes more complex, corporate litigation has also become more complicated, protracted, expensive, and important to the parties involved. 

As a result, companies are increasingly relying on sophisticated economic and financial analysis to solve complex problems and improve decision-making. Economic and financial models provide the tools necessary to analyze a variety of issues confronting businesses, such as interpretation of sales data, effects of price changes, valuation of assets, assessment of competitors' activities, evaluation of new products, and analysis of supply limitations. Governments are also relying, to an increasing extent, on economic and finance theory to measure the effects of anticompetitive activity, evaluate mergers and acquisitions, change regulations, implement auctions to allocate resources, and establish transfer pricing rules. Finally, litigants and law firms are using economic and finance theory to help determine liability and to calculate damages in complex and high-stakes litigation. As the need for complex economic and financial analysis becomes more widespread, companies and governments are turning to outside consulting firms, such as ours, for access to the independent, specialized expertise, experience, and prestige that are not available to them internally. In addition, companies' strategic, organizational, and operational problems have gotten more acute as a result of the economic environment, and companies are relying on management consultants for help in analyzing, addressing, and solving strategic business problems and performance-related issues involving market supply and demand dynamics, supply chain and sourcing, pricing, capital allocation, technology management, portfolio positioning, risk management, merger integration, and improving shareholder value. 

Competitive Strengths 

Since 1965, we have been committed to providing sophisticated consulting services to our clients. We believe that the following factors have been critical to our success. 

Strong Reputation for High-Quality Consulting; High Level of Repeat Business. Since 1965, we have been a leader in providing sophisticated economic analysis and original, authoritative advice to clients involved in complex litigation and regulatory proceedings, and we also provide management consulting services to companies facing strategic, organizational, and operational challenges. As a result, we believe we have established a strong reputation among leading law firms and business clients as a preferred source of expertise in economics, finance, business, and management consulting, as evidenced by our high level of repeat business. In addition, we believe our significant name recognition, which we developed as a result of our work on many high-profile litigation and regulatory engagements, has enhanced the development of our management consulting practice. 

Highly Educated, Experienced, and Versatile Consulting Staff. We believe our most important asset is our base of employee consultants, particularly our senior employee consultants. As of January 2, 2016 we employed 511 consultants, which consisted of 389 senior staff and 122 junior staff. Approximately three-fourths of our senior staff has a doctorate or other advanced degree. Many of these senior employee consultants are nationally or internationally recognized as experts in their respective fields. In addition to their expertise in a particular field, most of our employee consultants are able to apply their skills across numerous practice areas. This flexibility in staffing engagements is critical to our ability to apply our resources as needed to meet the demands of our clients. As a result, we seek to hire consultants who not only have strong analytical skills, but who are also creative, intellectually curious, and driven to develop expertise in new practice areas and industries. 

International Presence. We deliver our services through an international network of coordinated offices. Headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, we have offices throughout North America and Europe. Many of our clients are multinational firms with issues that cross international boundaries, and we believe our international presence provides us with an advantage to address complex issues that span countries and continents. Our international presence also gives us access to many of the leading experts around the world on a variety of issues, allowing us to expand our knowledge base and areas of functional expertise. 

Diversified Business. Our business is diversified across multiple dimensions, including service offerings, vertical industry coverage, areas of functional expertise, client base, and geography. By maintaining expertise in multiple industries, we are able to offer clients creative and pragmatic advice tailored to their specific markets. By offering clients litigation, regulatory, financial, and management consulting services, we are able to satisfy an array of client needs, ranging from expert testimony for complex lawsuits to designing global business strategies. This broad range of expertise enables us to take an interdisciplinary approach to certain engagements, combining economists and experts in one area with specialists in other disciplines. We believe this diversification reduces our dependence on any particular market, industry, or geographic area. Furthermore, our litigation, regulatory, and financial consulting businesses are driven primarily by regulatory changes and high-stakes legal proceedings. Our diversity also enhances our expertise and the range of issues that we can address on behalf of clients. 

Integrated Business. We manage our business on an integrated basis through our international network of offices and areas of functional expertise. Many of our practice areas are represented in several of our offices and are managed across geographic borders. We view these cross-border practices as integral to our success and key to our management approach. Our practices share not only staff but also consulting approaches and marketing strategies. When we acquire companies, our practice is to rapidly integrate systems, procedures, and people into our business platform. In addition to sharing our intellectual property assets globally, we encourage geographic collaboration among our practices by including a consultant's overall contribution to our practices as a factor in determining the consultant's annual bonus. 

Diversified Client Base. We have completed thousands of engagements for clients in a broad range of industries around the world. Our clients are major firms, and national and international law firms representing such clients, across a multitude of industries that include agriculture; banking and capital markets; chemicals; communications and media; consumer products; energy; entertainment; financial services; health care; insurance; life sciences; manufacturing; metals, mining, and materials; oil and gas; real estate; retail; sports; telecommunications; transportation; and technology. 

Established Corporate Culture. Our success results in part from our established corporate culture. We believe we attract consultants because of our approximately 50-year history, our strong reputation, the credentials, experience, and reputations of our employee consultants, the opportunity to work on an array of matters with a broad group of renowned non-employee experts, and our collegial atmosphere where teamwork and collaboration are emphasized and valued by many clients. 

Access to Leading Academic and Industry Experts. To enhance the expertise we provide to our clients and the depth and breadth of our insights, we maintain close working relationships with a select group of non-employee experts. Depending on client needs, we use non-employee experts for their specialized expertise, assistance in conceptual problem-solving, and expert witness testimony. We work regularly with renowned professors at such institutions as Cornell University, Georgetown University, The Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies, Harvard University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Northwestern University, Texas A&#38;M University, the University of California at Berkeley, the University of California at Los Angeles, the University of Chicago, University of Michigan College of Literature, Science and the Arts, the University of Toronto, Yale University, and other leading universities. These experts also generate business for us and provide us access to other leading academic and industry experts. By establishing affiliations with these prestigious experts, we further enhance our reputation as a leading source of sophisticated economic and financial analysis. 

Services 

We offer consulting services in two broad areas: litigation, regulatory, and financial consulting and management consulting. Together, these two service areas comprised approximately 99% of our consolidated revenues for fiscal 2015, and approximately 1% of our consolidated revenues came from our NeuCo subsidiary. 

Litigation, Regulatory, and Financial Consulting 

In our litigation, regulatory, and financial consulting practices, we typically work closely with law firms on behalf of one or more companies involved in litigation or regulatory proceedings in such areas as antitrust, damages, and labor and employment. Many of the lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in which we are involved are critical assignments with high-stakes outcomes, such as obtaining regulatory approval of a pending merger or analyzing possible damages awards in a class action case. The ability to formulate and effectively communicate powerful economic and financial arguments to courts and regulatory agencies is often critical to a successful outcome in litigation and regulatory proceedings. Our consultants combine uncommon analytical rigor with practical experience and in-depth understanding of industries and markets. Our analytical strength enables us to reach objective, factual conclusions that help our clients make important business and policy decisions and resolve critical disputes. Our consultants work with law firms, corporate counsel, and regulatory agencies to assist in developing the theory of the case and in preparing the testimony of expert witnesses from among our employees and from among our non-employee experts and others in academia. In addition, our consultants provide general litigation support, including reviewing legal briefs and assisting in the appeals process. 

The following is a summary of the areas of functional expertise that we offer in litigation, regulatory, and financial consulting engagements. We provide services, such as economic expertise, analyses, and expert testimony, in these areas: 

Areas of Functional Expertise 

&#160; Description of Area of Service Antitrust &#38; Competition &#160; Antitrust litigation, including economic analysis of the competitive effects of alleged collusion and cartels, monopolization, abuse of dominance, monopsony, and vertical restrictions. Damages &#38; Valuation &#160; Disputes involving lost profits, breach of contract, purchase price, valuation, business interruption, product liability, and fraud, among other damages claims. Calculating damages, providing expert testimony, and critiquing opposing experts' damages analyses in matters involving disputes in antitrust; intellectual property; securities and other financial market issues; insolvency; property values; contract; employment discrimination; product liability; environmental contamination; and purchase price. Supporting clients with broader corporate valuation services, providing pre-trial evaluations of damages claims and methodologies, and evaluating proposed settlements in class action and other cases. Financial Accounting &#38; Valuation &#160; Commercial and shareholder disputes; corporate finance damages advisory; corporate investigations; due diligence; financial accounting; valuation and litigation support and expert testimony, including both liability and damages. Financial Economics &#160; Matters pertaining to financial markets, including regulatory analyses and litigation support for financial institutions in areas of fair lending compliance, credit risk, credit scoring, consumer and mortgage lending, housing markets, international mortgage markets, and securitization. Analyses of valuations and estimates of damages associated with breaches of contract, national laws, and international treaties and the effects of market rules, processes, and contracts on prices and competition. 

Areas of Functional Expertise 

&#160; Description of Area of Service Forensic &#38; Cyber Investigations &#160; Forensic accounting and analysis of complex accounting issues; fraud, corruption, bribery and embezzlement investigations; white collar defense; cybercrime, data breach and theft of trade secrets investigations; computer and other digital forensic analyses; actionable business intelligence and reputational due diligence; and other independent professional services that help clients preserve their reputation and support their commitment to integrity. Insurance Economics &#160; Matters pertaining to advising insurers, regulators, and legislators in management, insurance products, and litigation and regulation. Intellectual Property &#160; Matters pertaining to all types of intellectual property assets including valuation, litigation, transaction and strategic advisory services, patents, trade secrets, copyrights, and trademarks as well as economic damages in intellectual property litigation, valuations of intellectual property assets for strategic and regulatory purposes, and transactional advisory services for licensing and other intellectual property-rich transactions. International Arbitration &#160; International arbitration cases brought under bilateral investment treaties and arbitration clauses in contracts between firms. Assessing causation and quantifying damages using sophisticated modeling and analytical techniques and presenting findings to arbitration authorities. Labor &#38; Employment &#160; All facets of employment litigation including equal employment opportunity claims under Title VII, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Equal Pay Act, and the Americans with Disabilities Act. Providing expert witness and litigation support services, conducting proactive analyses of employment and contracting practices, monitoring consent decrees and settlement agreements, designing information systems to track relevant employment data, and analyzing liability and assessing damages under the Fair Labor Standards Act, California overtime laws, and state-specific wage and hour laws. Mergers &#38; Acquisitions &#160; Assisting clients in obtaining domestic and foreign regulatory approvals in proceedings before government agencies, such as the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Merger Task Force at the European Commission, and the Canadian Competition Bureau. Analyses include simulating the effects of mergers on prices, estimating demand elasticities, designing and administering customer and consumer surveys, and studying possible acquisition-related synergies. Regulatory Economics and Compliance &#160; Regulatory proceedings and assisting clients in understanding and mitigating regulatory risks and exposures, preparing policy studies that help develop the basis for sound regulatory policy, drafting regulatory filings, and advising on regulations pertaining to environmental protection, employment, and health and safety. Securities and Financial Markets &#160; Application of financial economics and accounting to complex litigation and business problems in such areas as securities litigation; securities markets and financial institutions; valuation and damages; and other financial litigation. 

Areas of Functional Expertise 

&#160; Description of Area of Service Transfer Pricing &#160; All phases of the tax cycle, including planning, documentation, and tax valuation. Also includes audit defense and support in advanced pricing agreements, alternative dispute resolution, and litigation in proceedings involving the Internal Revenue Service, the Tax Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, state and municipal tax authorities, and foreign tax authorities. 

Management Consulting 

Our management consulting practices offer a unique mix of industry and functional expertise to help companies address and solve their strategic, organizational, and operational business problems. We advise clients in a broad range of industries on how to succeed in uncertain, rapidly-changing environments by generating growth, creating value, and enhancing shareholder wealth. 

Additionally, we challenge clients to develop fresh approaches by sharing industry insights, focusing on facts, and questioning tradition. We support clients in implementation by setting priorities, focusing resources, and aligning operations, and we get results by helping clients make distinctive, substantial improvements in their organizations' performance. 

The following is a summary of the areas of functional expertise that we offer in management consulting. 

Areas of Functional Expertise 

&#160; Description of Area of Service Auctions &#38; Competitive Bidding &#160; Providing auction and market design, implementation, and monitoring services, as well as bidding support services, for businesses, industry organizations, and governments in various industries around the world, including commodities, energy and utilities, telecommunications, transportation, natural resources, and other industries. Corporate &#38; Business Strategy &#160; Advising on business strategy, corporate revitalizations, and organizational effectiveness by bringing new ways of thinking to companies and new ways of working to develop better strategies over time and identifying the highest-value opportunities that address critical challenges and transform business. Advising chief executive officers and executive management teams on corporate and business unit strategy, market analysis, portfolio management, pricing strategy, and product positioning. Areas of expertise include strategy, execution, organic growth, growth through acquisition, productivity, risk management, leadership and organization, and managing for value. Enterprise Risk Management &#160; Advising large financial institutions and corporations in areas of governance and strategy, process analytics, and technology related to risk management. 

Areas of Functional Expertise 

&#160; Description of Area of Service Environmental and Energy Strategy &#160; Advising companies on the following: corporate strategy to address risks and uncertainties surrounding environmental policy developments; business models that adapt to future environmental policy; investment decision-making processes that account for environmental policy uncertainty; environmental strategic compliance options with regulations/legislation; emissions trading planning surrounding cap-and-trade policies; identification of business opportunities that could relate to environmental trends; and the economic and business issues surrounding clean and renewable energy, enterprise and asset management, global gas and liquefied natural gas services, and regulation and litigation. Intellectual Property &#38; Technology Management &#160; Advising top management, investors, and boards on technology strategy and planning, research and development management, commercialization, technology market evaluation, intellectual property management, and portfolio and resource management. Organization &#38; Performance Improvement &#160; Advising corporate clients in areas of revenue growth drivers; operating margin drivers; asset efficiency drivers; key enablers; and performance management and metrics. Transaction Advisory Services &#160; Advising business leaders, including buyers and sellers, in the areas of due diligence, mergers and acquisitions, private equity, and valuation. 

Industry Expertise 

We believe our ability to combine expertise in advanced economic and financial methods with in-depth knowledge of particular industries is one of our key competitive strengths. By maintaining expertise in certain industries, we provide clients practical advice tailored to their specific markets. This industry expertise, which we developed over decades of providing sophisticated consulting services to a diverse group of clients in many industries, differentiates us from many of our competitors. We believe that we have developed a strong reputation and substantial name recognition within specific industries, which has led to repeat business and new engagements from clients in those markets. While we provide services to clients in a wide variety of industries, we have particular expertise in the following industries: 

&#149; Agriculture &#149; Banking &#38; Capital Markets &#149; Chemicals &#149; Communications &#38; Media &#149; Consumer Products &#149; Energy &#149; Entertainment &#149; Financial Services &#149; Health Care &#149; Insurance 9 

&#149; Life Sciences &#149; Manufacturing &#149; Metals, Mining, &#38; Materials &#149; Oil &#38; Gas &#149; Real Estate &#149; Retail &#149; Sports &#149; Telecommunications &#149; Transportation &#149; Technology Clients 

We have completed thousands of engagements for clients around the world, including domestic and foreign corporations; Federal, state, and local domestic government agencies; governments of foreign countries; public and private utilities; accounting firms; and national and international trade associations. Frequently, we work with major law firms who approach us on behalf of their clients. While we have particular expertise in a number of industries, we provide services to a diverse group of clients in a broad range of industries. Our policy is to keep the identities of our clients confidential unless our work for the client is already publicly disclosed. Our clients come from a broad range of industries, with no single client accounting for more than 5% of our revenues in any of fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 or fiscal 2013. 

We derived approximately 14%, 15%, and 13% of consolidated revenues from fixed-price contracts in fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014, and fiscal 2013, respectively. These contracts are more common in our management consulting area, and would likely grow in number with expansion of that area. Revenues outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 20%, 22%, and 22% of our total revenues in fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014, and fiscal 2013, respectively. See note 12 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a breakdown of our revenue and long-lived assets by country. 

Software Subsidiary 

NeuCo, Inc. develops and markets a family of neural network software tools and complementary application consulting services that are currently focused on electric utilities. Although NeuCo had its origins in one of our consulting engagements, it is primarily a software company that operates independently from our consulting business. NeuCo's products and services are designed to help utilities optimize the use of their power plants by improving heat rate, reducing emissions, overcoming operating constraints, and increasing output capability. 

Our ownership interest in NeuCo was 55.89% for each of fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013. NeuCo's financial results have been consolidated with ours and the portion of NeuCo's results allocable to its other owners is shown as "noncontrolling interest." 

NeuCo's revenues, which are comprised of software sales and maintenance service revenue, included in our consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014, and fiscal 2013 totaled approximately $3.8 million, $4.8 million, and $5.1 million, respectively. NeuCo's net loss included in our consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 was approximately $3.0 million, $0.5 million and $0.3 million, respectively. NeuCo's net loss, net of amounts allocable to its other owners, included in our consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 was approximately $1.3 million, $0.2 million and $0.2 million, respectively. 

Human Capital 

As of January 2, 2016 we employed 511 consultants, consisting of 389 senior staff and 122 junior staff. Approximately three-fourths of our senior staff has a doctorate or other advanced degree in addition to substantial management, technical, or industry expertise. We believe our financial results and reputation are directly related to the number and quality of our employee consultants. 

We derive most of our revenues directly from the services provided by our employee consultants. Our employee consultants have backgrounds in many disciplines, including economics, business, corporate finance, accounting, materials sciences, life sciences, and engineering. We are highly selective in our hiring of consultants, recruiting primarily from a select group of leading universities and degree programs, industry, and government. We believe consultants choose to work for us because of our strong reputation; the credentials, experience, and reputations of our consultants; the opportunity to work on a diverse range of matters and with renowned non-employee experts; and our collegial atmosphere where teamwork and collaboration are emphasized and valued by many clients. We use a decentralized, team hiring approach. Our training and career development program for our employee consultants focuses on three areas: mentoring, seminars, and scheduled courses. This program is designed to complement on-the-job experience and an employee's pursuit of his or her own career development. New employee consultants participate in a structured program in which they are partnered with an assigned mentor. Through our ongoing seminar program, outside speakers make presentations and conduct discussions with our employee consultants on various topics. In addition, employee consultants are expected to discuss significant projects and cases, present academic research papers or business articles, and outline new analytical techniques or marketing opportunities periodically at in-house seminars. We also provide scheduled courses designed to improve an employee's professional skills, such as written and oral presentation, marketing techniques, and business development. We also encourage our employee consultants to pursue their academic interests by writing articles for economic, business, and other journals. 

Many of our vice presidents have signed non-solicitation agreements, which generally prohibit the employee from soliciting our clients or soliciting and/or hiring our employees for one year or longer following termination of the person's employment with us. In addition, many of the stock options we have issued between 2005 and 2008 contain a provision that they may only be exercised upon the execution of a non-competition agreement. We seek to align each vice president's interest with our overall interests, and many of our strongest contributors have an equity interest in us. 

We maintain a discretionary bonus program through which we grant performance-based bonuses to our officers and other employees. In fiscal 2007, our shareholders approved a performance-based cash incentive plan designed to preserve the deductibility of the compensation paid to our executive officers. In 2012, our Board of Directors amended this plan to extend its effective date until the annual meeting of our shareholders held in 2017. In addition, during fiscal 2009, we implemented a long-term incentive program for certain key employees. Under this program, selected participants receive a mixture of stock options, time-vesting restricted stock units, and performance-vesting restricted stock units. The program is designed to reward key employees and provide participants the opportunity to share in the long-term growth of our business. The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for approving equity compensation grants, approving the total bonuses to be distributed, establishing performance-based goals under these programs and plans each year, and determining the performance-based compensation earned each year by our executive officers under our cash incentive plan, with respect to which they can apply negative discretion. Our chief executive officer, in his discretion and in consultation with the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors, approves the bonuses to be granted to our other employees, based on recommendations of the various leaders supervising the employees' work. 

In addition, we work closely with a select group of non-employee experts from leading universities and industry. These experts supplement the work of our employee consultants and generate business for us. We believe these experts choose to work with us because of the interesting and challenging nature of our work, the opportunity to work with our quality-oriented consultants, and the financially 

rewarding nature of the work. Several non-employee experts, generally comprising the more active of those with whom we work, have entered into restrictive covenant contracts with us of varying lengths, which, in some cases, include non-competition agreements. 

Most of our revenues depend on the number of hours worked by our employee consultants. As a result, we experience certain seasonal effects that impact our revenue, such as holiday seasons and the summer vacation season. 

Marketing and Business Development 

We rely to a significant extent on the efforts of our employee consultants, particularly our vice presidents and principals, to market our services. We encourage our employee consultants to generate new business from both existing and new clients, and we reward our employee consultants with increased compensation and promotions for obtaining new business. In pursuing new business, our consultants emphasize our institutional reputation, experience, and client service, while also promoting the expertise of the particular employees who will work on the matter. Many of our consultants have published articles in industry, business, economic, legal, or scientific journals, and have made speeches and presentations at industry conferences and seminars, which serve as a means of attracting new business and enhancing their reputations. On occasion, employee consultants work with one or more non-employee experts to market our services. In addition, we rely upon business development professionals to ensure that the value of our litigation consulting service offerings is fully realized in the marketplace. They are focused on deepening and broadening client relationships with law firms and general counsels, ensuring that both existing and potential clients have access to our broad array of services, as well as helping to bring the best talent to any given assignment. 

We supplement the personal marketing efforts of our employee consultants with firm-wide initiatives. We rely primarily on our reputation and client referrals for new business and undertake traditional marketing activities. We regularly organize seminars for existing and potential clients featuring panel members that include our employee consultants, non-employee experts, and leading government officials. We have an extensive set of brochures organized around our service areas, which describe our experience and capabilities. We also provide information about our services on our corporate website. We distribute publications to existing and potential clients highlighting emerging trends and noteworthy engagements. Because existing clients are an important source of repeat business and referrals, we communicate regularly with our existing clients to keep them informed of developments that affect their markets and industries. 

We derive the majority of new business from new engagements from existing clients. We have worked with leading law firms across the globe and believe we have developed a reputation among law firms as a preferred source of sophisticated economic advice for litigation and regulatory work. For our management consulting services, we also rely on referrals from existing clients, and supplement referrals with a significant amount of direct marketing to new clients through conferences, seminars, publications, presentations, and direct solicitations. 

It is important to us that we conduct business ethically and in accordance with industry standards and our own rigorous professional standards. We carefully consider the pursuit of each specific market, client, and engagement in light of these standards. 

Competition 

The market for economic and management consulting services is intensely competitive, highly fragmented, and subject to rapid change. In general, there are few barriers to entry into our markets, and we expect to face additional competition from new entrants into the economic and management consulting industries. In the litigation, regulatory, and financial consulting markets, we compete primarily with other economic consulting firms and individual academics. We believe the principal competitive factors in this market are reputation, analytical ability, industry expertise, size, and service. In the management consulting market, we compete primarily with other business and management 

consulting firms, specialized or industry-specific consulting firms, the consulting practices of large accounting firms, and the internal professional resources of existing and potential clients. We believe the principal competitive factors in this market are reputation, industry expertise, analytical ability, service, and price. 

