 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview 

We are a biopharmaceutical company developing novel therapeutics based on RNA interference, or RNAi. RNAi is a naturally occurring biological pathway within cells for selectively silencing and regulating the expression of specific genes. Since many diseases are caused by the inappropriate activity of specific genes, the ability to silence genes selectively through RNAi could provide a new way to treat a wide range of human diseases. We believe that drugs that work through RNAi have the potential to become a broad new class of innovative medicines, and that this potential new drug class is similar to the opportunity created with other major biological discoveries such as recombinant DNA and monoclonal antibodies. Using our intellectual property and expertise, we are developing what we believe to be a reproducible and modular platform to develop RNAi therapeutics for a variety of human diseases. 

Our research and development strategy is focused primarily on use of our proprietary N-acetylgalactosamine, or GalNAc-conjugate strategy for delivery of small interfering RNAs, or &#147;siRNAs&#148; &#151; the molecules that mediate RNAi &#151; toward genetically validated, liver-expressed genes involved in the cause or pathway of human diseases. We are also focused on clinical indications where there are high unmet medical needs, early biomarkers for the assessment of clinical activity in Phase 1 clinical studies, and a definable path for drug development, regulatory approval and commercialization. 

Specifically, our pipeline of investigational RNAi therapeutics is focused in three Strategic Therapeutic Areas, or &#147;STArs:&#148; Genetic Medicines, with a broad pipeline of RNAi therapeutics for the treatment of rare diseases; Cardio-Metabolic Diseases, with a pipeline of RNAi therapeutics toward genetically validated, liver-expressed disease targets for unmet needs in cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, such as dyslipidemia, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH, type 2 diabetes, hypertension and other major diseases; and Hepatic Infectious Diseases, with a pipeline of RNAi therapeutics designed to address the major global health challenges of hepatic infectious diseases, beginning with hepatitis B and hepatitis D viral infections. We continue to make progress towards our Alnylam 2020 guidance, launched in January 2015, for the advancement and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics as a whole new class of innovative medicines. Specifically, by the end of 2020, we expect to achieve a company profile with three marketed products and ten RNAi therapeutic clinical programs, including four in late stages of development, across our three STArs. 

Based on our expertise in RNAi therapeutics and broad intellectual property estate we have formed alliances with leading pharmaceutical and life sciences companies, including Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Ionis (formerly Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), Novartis Pharma AG (which assigned its rights and obligations to Arrowhead Research Corporation, or Arrowhead, in early 2015), or Novartis/Arrowhead, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (which assigned its rights and obligations to Arrowhead in 2011), or Roche/Arrowhead, Takeda 

&#160; 

Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Takeda, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., or Kyowa Hakko Kirin, Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Cubist (now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Merck &#38; Co., Inc.), Ascletis BioScience Co., Ltd., or Ascletis, Monsanto Company, or Monsanto, Sanofi Genzyme, the specialty care global business unit of Sanofi, or Sanofi Genzyme, and The Medicines Company, or MDCO. 

Recent Developments 

Sanofi Genzyme Stock Purchase 

Under our investor agreement with Sanofi Genzyme, Sanofi Genzyme has the right at the beginning of each year to purchase a number of shares of our common stock based on the number of shares we issued during the previous year for compensation-related purposes. Sanofi Genzyme exercised this right to purchase directly from us 205,030 shares of our common stock on February 1, 2016 for $14.3 million. The sale of these shares to Sanofi Genzyme was consummated as a private placement. This purchase by Sanofi Genzyme allowed Sanofi Genzyme to maintain its ownership level of our common stock of approximately 12%. 

Land Purchase 

On February 10, 2016, we entered into an agreement with 20 Commerce LLC to purchase 12 acres of undeveloped land in Norton, Massachusetts for an aggregate of approximately $8.0 million in cash payable for the land and related acquisition costs. We anticipate constructing a manufacturing facility at this site for clinical and commercial drug products. The closing of the transaction is subject to the completion of due diligence on the property and the satisfaction or waiver of other customary closing conditions. We expect the transaction to close in the first quarter of 2016. 

RNA Interference and the Opportunity for RNAi Therapeutics 

RNAi is a natural biological pathway that occurs within cells to selectively silence the activity of specific genes. The discovery of RNAi first occurred in plants and worms in 1998, and two of the scientists who made this discovery, Dr. Andrew Fire and Dr. Craig Mello, received the 2006 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine. 

RNAi therapeutics harness the natural RNAi pathway to silence disease-associated genes and knock down production of disease-causing proteins. RNAi therapeutics represent an opportunity to create a whole new class of innovative medicines. This potential new drug class is similar to the opportunity created with other major biological discoveries such as recombinant DNA and monoclonal antibodies. RNAi therapeutics also have a distinct mechanism of action, acting &#147;upstream&#148; of today&#146;s medicines. Specifically, RNAi therapeutics achieve their biological effects through a highly potent, catalytic mechanism. This unique mechanism of action confers a number of attributes that have the potential to provide differentiation from other drug classes: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; First, RNAi therapeutics have the potential to silence any disease-associated gene, including so-called &#147;undruggable&#148; targets, where conventional therapeutic modalities (e.g., small molecule drugs and biologics) have not been successful. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In addition, as a reproducible and modular platform for drug discovery and development, RNAi therapeutics represent a simplified and efficient new class of investigational medicines, with demonstrated human proof of concept. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; We have also demonstrated the potential of RNAi therapeutics to achieve maximum clinical activity levels with up to 99% target gene knockdown in some cases. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Importantly, RNAi therapeutics achieve a clamped pharmacodynamic effect that has the potential to provide improved and consistent efficacy compared with the &#147;sawtooth&#148; effects often achieved with other drug classes. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; RNAi therapeutics also demonstrate a durability of effect that enables once-monthly, once-quarterly and, in some cases, possible bi-annual dose regimens. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Further, with our proprietary GalNAc-conjugate delivery platform, described below, we have investigational medicines that can be delivered by subcutaneous injection. 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Finally, the potential for room temperature stability of our investigational medicines could allow us to avoid the inconveniences, costs and global challenges of a cold chain distribution, where refrigerated transport and storage is necessary for stability. 

We have reported on our advances in developing RNAi therapeutics as potential drugs in a large number of peer-reviewed publications and many scientific meetings, including publications by Alnylam scientists in the journals Nature , Nature Medicine, Nature Biotechnology, Cell, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the New England Journal of Medicine and The Lancet. 

Delivery of RNAi Therapeutics 

In the early years of developing RNAi therapeutics, a challenge to the promise of RNAi as a therapeutic modality was delivery, i.e., getting the siRNA into the right body organs and cells so that it could trigger the RNAi mechanism. In recent years, a tremendous amount of progress has been made, and we believe Alnylam has been the leader of this advancement. This delivery success is now enabling execution on our product strategy and our Alnylam 2020 guidance. 

Early efforts focused on delivery of RNAi therapeutics utilizing lipid nanoparticles, or LNPs, where siRNA molecules are encapsulated in specific lipid-based formulations. This technology enables systemic delivery with intravenous drug administration. Results with LNP-based investigational RNAi therapeutics demonstrate potent, rapid and durable target gene silencing in pre-clinical and clinical studies. Further, LNP-based investigational RNAi therapeutics have been found to be generally well tolerated in clinical studies conducted to date. 

More recently, we began advancing proprietary technology that conjugates a sugar molecule called GalNAc to the siRNA molecule. This simpler delivery approach enables more convenient, subcutaneous administration of our drug candidates. Recent findings from our Enhanced Stabilization Chemistry (ESC)-GalNAc-conjugate delivery platform demonstrated a substantial increase in potency over our earlier &#147;standard template chemistry&#148; (STC)-GalNAc-conjugate approach in pre-clinical and clinical studies, and a durability of effect that we believe supports once-monthly, once-quarterly or possibly even bi-annual subcutaneous dosing regimens. Due to this increased potency and durability, as well as a wide therapeutic index, this conjugate platform has become our primary approach for development of investigational RNAi therapeutics. 

In early 2014, we continued and extended our commitment to RNAi therapeutics innovation and delivery through the acquisition of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., or Sirna, from Merck Sharp &#38; Dohme Corp., or Merck. This acquisition extended and complemented our progress and continued focus on RNAi therapeutics. It also accelerated our overall efforts to develop and commercialize siRNA delivery technologies, including GalNAc-siRNA conjugate technology. 

Our Product Platform 

We are leading the translation of RNAi as a new class of innovative medicines, with a focus on development and commercialization of investigational RNAi therapeutics in three STArs: Genetic Medicines; Cardio-Metabolic Diseases; and Hepatic Infectious Diseases. With RNAi therapeutics, we believe that we have created a reproducible and modular platform for the development and commercialization of innovative medicines. The product candidates we are developing with this approach share several key characteristics, including: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the potential to have a major impact in a high unmet need population; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a genetically defined, liver-expressed target gene involved in disease and validated in human genetics; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the ability to leverage our GalNAc-conjugate delivery platform; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the opportunity to monitor an early, blood-based biomarker with strong disease correlation in Phase 1 clinical trials for human proof of concept; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the existence of clinically relevant endpoints for the filing of a new drug application, or NDA, or foreign regulatory equivalent, with a focused patient database and possible accelerated paths for regulatory approval and commercialization. 

We have achieved human proof of concept in multiple clinical trials of our investigational candidates, providing strong support for our approach to drug development. 

&#160; 

Our Product Pipeline 

Our broad pipeline of investigational RNAi therapeutics is focused in three STArs: Genetic Medicines; Cardio-Metabolic Diseases; and Hepatic Infectious Diseases. The following is a summary of our product development programs in each of our STArs as of January 31, 2016, that identifies those programs in which we have achieved human proof of concept by demonstrating target gene knockdown and/or additional evidence of activity in clinical studies: 

&#160;

We have spent substantial funds over the past three years to develop our product pipeline and expect to continue to do so in the future. We incurred research and development costs of $276.5 million in 2015, $190.2 million in 2014 and $113.0 million in 2013. 

The investigational compounds described below are in various stages of clinical development. The safety and efficacy of these investigational compounds have not been evaluated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or any other health authority. 

Genetic Medicine STAr 

In our Genetic Medicine STAr, we are advancing a broad pipeline of investigational RNAi therapeutics for rare diseases. Across our Genetic Medicine STAr, we plan on commercializing our products through direct marketing and sales in North America and Western Europe, while leveraging our alliance with Sanofi Genzyme, described below, for commercialization in the rest of the world, subject to certain broader rights. Our Genetic Medicine development programs are described in more detail below. 

TTR-Mediated Amyloidosis (ATTR Amyloidosis) 

Our most advanced Genetic Medicine product development program targets the transthyretin, or TTR, gene for the treatment of TTR-mediated amyloidosis, or ATTR amyloidosis. ATTR amyloidosis is an inherited, progressively debilitating and often fatal disease caused by mutations in the TTR gene. TTR protein is produced 

&#160; 

primarily in the liver and is normally a carrier of vitamin A. We believe TTR is a suitable target for an RNAi therapeutic formulated to maximize delivery to liver cells, which are the primary source of TTR synthesis. Mutations in TTR result in the accumulation of damaging toxic deposits of the wild-type and mutant protein in several body organs and tissues, including the peripheral nervous system, heart and/or gastrointestinal tract, which leads to familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy, or FAP, and/or familial amyloidotic cardiomyopathy, or FAC. FAP is associated with severe pain and loss of autonomic nervous system function, whereas FAC is associated with heart failure. Our three programs all target wild-type and all known mutant forms of TTR, including the V30M mutation, which is the major mutation of ATTR amyloidosis, particularly in FAP, and therefore they represent a potential therapeutic for the treatment of all forms of ATTR amyloidosis, including FAP and FAC. 

ATTR amyloidosis represents a major unmet medical need with significant morbidity and mortality as an orphan, or rare, disease. Based on our analysis of the available patient and market data, we estimate that FAP affects approximately 10,000 people worldwide and FAC affects approximately 40,000 people worldwide. ATTR amyloidosis patients with FAP have a mean life expectancy of five to 15 years from symptom onset, and the only approved treatment options for early-stage disease are liver transplantation and TTR stabilizers such as tafamidis, a small molecule stabilizer of the TTR protein that has been approved for early-stage FAP patients in the European Union, or EU, Japan and certain countries in Latin America. In some countries, patients may also be treated with diflunisal, a commercially available non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, which has been used off-label for the treatment of FAP. The mean survival for FAC patients is approximately 2.5 to five years following diagnosis, and treatment is currently limited to supportive care. Senile systemic amyloidosis, or SSA, is a non-hereditary form of ATTR amyloidosis with cardiomyopathy caused by idiopathic deposition of wild-type TTR; its prevalence is generally unknown, but is associated with advanced age. Although limited treatment options are available, there remains a significant need for novel therapeutics to treat patients with ATTR amyloidosis. 

We are developing three investigational RNAi therapeutic candidates for ATTR amyloidosis: patisiran, revusiran and ALN-TTRsc02. 

Patisiran (ALN-TTR02). Patisiran is our most advanced product candidate in clinical development. In November 2013, we initiated our ongoing APOLLO Phase 3 clinical trial of patisiran. The APOLLO Phase 3 clinical trial is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, global study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of patisiran in ATTR amyloidosis patients with FAP. The primary endpoint of the study is the difference in the change in the modified composite Neuropathy Impairment Score (NIS), termed &#147;mNIS+7,&#148; between patisiran and placebo at 18 months. The mNIS+7 score is an evaluation of muscle weakness, sensory and autonomic function, and nerve conductance across a 304-point scale, where neuropathy progression leads to an increased score over time. Secondary endpoints include: the Norfolk Quality of Life-Diabetic Neuropathy (QOL-DN) score; Neuropathy Impairment Score, or NIS-weakness; modified body mass index, or mBMI; timed ten-meter walk; and the COMPASS-31 autonomic symptom score. The trial was designed to enroll 200 FAP patients with a baseline NIS in the range of five to 130, which represents patients with Stage 1 or Stage 2 disease. Patients were randomized two-to-one, patisiran-to-placebo, with patisiran administered at 0.30 mg/kg once every three weeks for 18 months by intravenous infusion. The study was designed with 90% power to conservatively detect as little as a 37.5% difference in change in mNIS+7 between treatment groups, with a two-sided alpha of 0.05. The placebo mNIS+7 progression rate was derived from an Alnylam analysis of natural history data from 283 FAP patients. All patients completing the APOLLO Phase 3 clinical trial will be eligible to enroll in a Phase 3 open-label extension, or OLE, study. In January 2016, we completed enrollment in our APOLLO study with a total of 225 FAP patients with Stage 1 or Stage 2 disease, significantly exceeding the original anticipated enrollment of 200. We expect to report data from the APOLLO clinical trial in 2017, and due to this anticipated timing, we do not plan to conduct an interim analysis for efficacy. Assuming that the APOLLO data are positive, we expect to submit an NDA and Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, for patisiran in late 2017. 

We have completed a Phase 2 clinical trial of patisiran. Patients participating in the Phase 2 study were eligible to participate in a Phase 2 OLE study with patisiran. The ongoing patisiran Phase 2 OLE study is an open-label, multi-center trial designed to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of patisiran administration. Patisiran is being administered once every three weeks at a dose of 0.30 mg/kg by intravenous 

&#160; 

infusion. The study is measuring a number of clinical endpoints every six months, including mNIS+7. In November 2015, we reported preliminary 18-month clinical data from this ongoing Phase 2 OLE study. The results for patients (N=20) who reached the 18-month endpoint as of a data cut off of September 22, 2015 showed that neuropathy impairment scores were essentially unchanged from baseline values after 18 months of treatment. Specifically, there was a mean increase in mNIS+7 of only 1.7 points, which compares favorably to an estimated increase in mNIS+7 of 22 to 26 points at 18 months based upon analysis of historical data sets in untreated FAP patients with similar neuropathy impairment. At 18 months, patisiran administration was associated with a statistically significant and clinically meaningful mean 4.9 m/mm 3 increase from baseline in sweat gland nerve fiber density from distal thigh skin biopsy samples (p less than 0.001) as read histologically by a central lab in a masked manner. Serum TTR levels were also measured throughout the OLE study, and showed sustained TTR knockdown of up to 96% and a mean maximal knockdown of 91% for over 21 months. Patisiran administration was also found to be generally well tolerated in FAP patients out to nearly two years, with minimal drug-related adverse events, or AEs, reported. The most common drug-related or possibly drug-related AEs were flushing (25.9%) and infusion-related reactions (18.5%), which were both mild in severity and did not result in any discontinuations. 

The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products, or COMP, of the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, has designated patisiran as an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of FAP. Orphan Drug Designation, or ODD, by the European Commission, or EC, provides regulatory and financial incentives for companies developing orphan drugs to develop and market therapies that treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition affecting no more than five in 10,000 persons in the EU. In addition, the FDA provided ODD to patisiran as a therapeutic for the treatment of FAP. The FDA&#146;s ODD program provides orphan status to drugs and biologics which are defined as those intended for the safe and effective treatment, diagnosis or prevention of rare diseases/disorders that affect fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. 

In November 2013, the FDA granted Fast Track designation to patisiran for the treatment of FAP. Fast Track is a process designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs to treat serious conditions and to fill an unmet medical need. The purpose is to get important new drugs to the patient earlier. 

Revusiran (ALN-TTRsc). In addition to patisiran, we are also advancing revusiran, which utilizes our proprietary STC-GalNAc-conjugate-siRNA delivery platform enabling subcutaneous dose administration, with a wide therapeutic index. In December 2014, we initiated our ongoing ENDEAVOUR Phase 3 clinical trial. The ENDEAVOUR trial is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, global study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of revusiran in ATTR amyloidosis patients with FAC. The co-primary endpoints of the study are the change compared to baseline in 6-minute walk distance, or 6-MWD, and the percent reduction in TTR plasma levels between placebo- and revusiran-treated patients at 18 months. Secondary endpoints include a composite endpoint of cardiovascular mortality and cardiovascular hospitalization, New York Heart Association (NYHA) class, Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ), cardiovascular, or CV, mortality, CV hospitalization and all-cause mortality. The trial is designed to enroll up to 200 FAC patients with a documented TTR mutation, including V122I or other mutations, in addition to amyloid deposits as identified by biopsy. Patients are being randomized two-to-one, revusiran-to-placebo, with subcutaneous administration at 500 mg daily for five days then weekly for 18 months. The trial design was informed by results from a natural history study which showed a progressive decrease in 6-MWD in FAC patients over an 18-month period. The ENDEAVOUR study was designed with 90% power to detect as little as 39% difference in the 18-month change from baseline for 6-MWD between treatment groups, with a significance level of p &#60; 0.05 (two-sided). An unblinded interim analysis for futility may be conducted when 50% of patients reach 18 months. All patients completing the ENDEAVOUR Phase 3 study will be eligible to enroll in a Phase 3 OLE study. We expect to be in a position to report data from the ENDEAVOUR clinical study in 2018. 

We have completed a Phase 2 clinical trial of revusiran in 26 patients, including 14 with FAC and 12 with SSA. All patients that completed dosing in our Phase 2 clinical trial were eligible to be enrolled in our Phase 2 OLE study, which was initiated in November 2014. The ongoing revusiran Phase 2 OLE study is an open-label, multi-center trial designed to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of revusiran administration in ATTR amyloidosis patients with cardiomyopathy. Patients receive a fixed subcutaneous dose of 500 mg of revusiran 

&#160; 

once daily for five days, followed by once-weekly dosing. The study is measuring a number of clinical endpoints every six months, including effects on serum TTR and on mortality, hospitalization and 6-MWD. In November 2015, we reported initial results for patients (N=18) who reached the six-month endpoint as of a data transfer date of October 12, 2015. Repeat dosing with revusiran achieved robust and sustained TTR knockdown over the six-month period, with an up to 98% maximal and 87% mean maximum knockdown of TTR. For patients with an evaluable 6-MWD measurement at six months (N=15), the majority exhibited stable performance compared to baseline. On average, evaluable patients with FAC (N=8) exhibited a mean decline of 20 &#177; 14 meters and those with SSA (N=7) exhibited a mean decline of 24 &#177; 20 meters over 6 months. 

Weekly dosing with revusiran appeared to be generally well tolerated in the majority of ATTR amyloidosis patients with cardiomyopathy in the Phase 2 OLE study. Serious adverse events, or SAEs, were observed in eight patients (32%), including one death due to infiltrative cardiomyopathy; none of the SAEs were deemed to be related to study drug. The majority of the AEs were mild or moderate in severity; injection site reactions, or ISRs, were reported in 11 patients (44%). During 2015, three patients discontinued due to recurrent localized reactions at the injection site or a diffuse rash; no further discontinuations due to ISRs had occurred as of the data transfer date in October 2015. 

The COMP of the EMA has designated revusiran as an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of ATTR amyloidosis. The FDA also granted ODD for revusiran for the treatment of transthyretin amyloidosis. In December 2015, the FDA granted Fast Track designation to revusiran for the treatment of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy. 

ALN-TTRsc02. ALN-TTRsc02, an investigational RNAi therapeutic targeting TTR for the treatment of all forms of ATTR amyloidosis, utilizes our ESC-GalNAc-siRNA conjugate delivery platform, which enables high potency and durability with a wide therapeutic index, and represents an extension of our programs for ATTR amyloidosis. In October 2015, we reported data from our pre-clinical program for ALN-TTRsc02. Specifically, in pre-clinical studies, including those in non-human primates, or NHPs, ALN-TTRsc02 achieved potent and highly durable knockdown of serum TTR of up to 99% with multi-month durability achieved after just a single dose &#151; supportive of a low dose, low volume, potentially once-quarterly subcutaneous dose regimen. Based on these pre-clinical data, we believe ALN-TTRsc02 is our most potent and durable investigational RNAi therapeutic discovered to date. We are currently conducting investigational new drug, or IND-enabling studies and plan to file an IND application or IND-equivalent for ALN-TTRsc02 in early 2016. 

Fitusiran (ALN-AT3) &#151; Hemophilia and Rare Bleeding Disorders (RBD) 

Fitusiran is an investigational RNAi therapeutic targeting antithrombin, or AT, also known as antithrombin III and encoded by the gene, SERPINC1, for the treatment of hemophilia and RBD. AT is a liver expressed plasma protein and member of the &#147;serpin&#148; family of proteins that acts by inactivating thrombin and other coagulation factors. AT plays a key role in normal hemostasis by helping to limit the process of fibrin clot formation. However, in hemophilia, insufficient thrombin generation results in impaired fibrin clot formation. Lowering AT in the hemophilia setting may promote the generation of sufficient levels of thrombin needed to form an effective fibrin clot and prevent bleeding. This rationale is supported by human genetic data suggesting that co-inheritance of thrombophilic mutations, including AT deficiency, may ameliorate bleeding in hemophilia. We believe lowering of AT is a unique and innovative strategy for restoring hemostasis in people with hemophilia. 

People with hemophilia experience recurrent bleeds into joints, muscles and other internal organs. Hemophilia A, or HA, is defined by loss-of-function mutations in Factor VIII, and there are greater than 40,000 registered persons in the United States and EU with HA. Hemophilia B, or HB, defined by loss-of-function mutations in Factor IX, affects greater than 9,500 registered persons in the United States and EU. Other RBD are defined by deficiencies of blood coagulation factors, including Factors II, V, VII, X and XI. Based on our analysis of the available patient and market data, we estimate that there are approximately 1,000 persons worldwide with a severe bleeding phenotype because of these conditions. The goal of treatment for persons living with hemophilia is to prevent bleeding, establish prompt management of bleeds, and manage the 

&#160; 

complications of bleeding and treatment. Current guidelines recommend management of hemophilia with regular intravenous infusions of recombinant or human-derived clotting factors. The most serious treatment-related complication is the development of antibodies, known as inhibitors, to replacement factor. Inhibitor development can occur in both HA and HB, impacting as many as one-third of people with severe HA, and persons in this inhibitor subset become refractory to standard replacement therapy. There exists a significant need for novel therapeutics to treat people living with hemophilia and RBD. 

Fitusiran utilizes our ESC-GalNAc-siRNA conjugate delivery platform. We are evaluating fitusiran in an ongoing single- and multi-dose, dose-escalation Phase 1 study comprised of three parts. Part A &#151; which is complete &#151; was a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose, dose-escalation study (N=4 per cohort; 3:1 randomization of fitusiran: placebo) in healthy volunteers. This part of the study was completed after the first dose cohort received a single subcutaneous dose of fitusiran at 30 micrograms per kilogram (mcg/kg). Part B of the study &#151; which is also complete &#151; was an open-label, multi-dose, dose-escalation study that enrolled 12 patients with severe HA or HB. Patients in Part B received three weekly subcutaneous injections of fitusiran at doses of 15, 45 or 75 mcg/kg. Part C of the study &#151; which is ongoing &#151; is an open-label, multi-dose, dose escalation study of up to 18 patients with moderate or severe HA or HB in which patients are receiving three monthly subcutaneous doses of fitusiran at doses of 225, 450, 900 or 1800 mcg/kg. The primary objective of Parts B and C of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of multiple doses of subcutaneously administered fitusiran in patients with hemophilia. Secondary objectives include assessment of clinical activity as determined by lowering of circulating AT levels and increase in thrombin generation at pharmacologic doses of fitusiran. In addition, exploratory analyses of bleeding are being performed. 

In December 2015, we reported additional clinical data from our ongoing Phase 1 study of fitusiran from 24 patients with hemophilia in Parts B (N=12) and C (N=12) as of the data cutoff date of November 12, 2015. Interim results demonstrated that subcutaneous administration of fitusiran achieved potent and dose-dependent lowering of AT of up to 88% in patients with hemophilia. In addition, AT lowering was associated with statistically significant and clinically meaningful increases in thrombin generation and decreases in bleeding frequency in patients with hemophilia. In particular, fitusiran administration resulted in an 85% reduction in median estimated annualized bleeding rates, or ABR, in nine evaluable patients. The observed bleeding rates are comparable to those reported for prophylactic intravenous infusions of replacement factors in patients with hemophilia. 

Fitusiran was found to be generally well tolerated through the data cutoff date in all patients with hemophilia (Parts B and C, N=24). There were no SAEs related to study drug, no discontinuations, and no significant changes in physical exams, vital signs, or electrocardiography. One patient was hospitalized due to re-activation of hepatitis C, which was not related to fitusiran administration. There were three drug-related AEs, all of which were mild. Among these AEs, there were two ISRs, each consisting of mild, transient pain. There were no clinically significant changes in any laboratory parameter, including liver function tests, hematology and coagulation measures. There were no thromboembolic events or clinically significant increases in D-dimer. All bleeds were successfully managed with standard replacement factor administration, with no associated AE events. Finally, there were no instances of anti-drug antibody formation to fitusiran observed. 

We expect to initiate two Phase 3 program clinical trials in severe HA and HB patients with and without inhibitors in mid- and late-2016, respectively. Fitusiran has received ODD for HA and HB in the United States and the EU. 

ALN-CC5 &#151; Complement-Mediated Diseases 

ALN-CC5 is an investigational RNAi therapeutic targeting the C5 component of the complement pathway for the treatment of complement-mediated diseases. The complement system plays a central role in immunity as a protective mechanism for host defense, but its dysregulation results in life-threatening complications in a broad range of human diseases including paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, or PNH, atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome, or aHUS, myasthenia gravis, neuromyelitis optica and membranous nephropathy, amongst others. Complement component 5, which is predominantly expressed in liver cells, is a genetically and clinically 

&#160; 

validated target. Loss of function human mutations are associated with an attenuated immune response against certain infections. Eculizumab, an intravenous anti-C5 monoclonal antibody therapy, has demonstrated clinical activity and tolerability in a number of complement-mediated diseases. Eculizumab is approved for the treatment PNH and aHUS in the United States, Europe and other countries. We believe a subcutaneously administered RNAi therapeutic that silences C5 represents a novel approach to the treatment of complement-mediated diseases, with a potentially competitive profile compared with intravenously administered anti-C5 monoclonal antibody therapy. 

ALN-CC5 utilizes our ESC-GalNAc-siRNA conjugate delivery platform. We are evaluating ALN-CC5 in an ongoing Phase 1/2 study which is being conducted in three parts. Parts A and B are randomized (3:1, drug:placebo), double-blind, placebo-controlled, single ascending dose, or SAD, and multiple ascending dose, or MAD, studies, respectively, in which we plan to enroll up to a total of 60 healthy adult volunteers. These parts of the study are designed to evaluate safety and tolerability of single and multiple subcutaneous doses of ALN-CC5. Additional objectives include clinical activity as measured by knockdown of serum C5 and levels of residual C5, as well as measurement of effects on inhibition of serum complement activity, including measurements of serum sheep red blood cell hemolytic activity. A total of five SAD cohorts were enrolled in the study, with fixed doses ranging from 50 to 900 mg. As of December 2015, a total of three MAD cohorts had been enrolled in the study with fixed doses of 100, 200 or 400 mg, where subjects are receiving once weekly, subcutaneous doses of ALN-CC5 or placebo for five weeks. Part C is an open-label, multi-dose study in up to 16 patients with PNH, to assess safety, tolerability and clinical activity of ALN-CC5, administered for up to 13 weeks. This part of the study will include an exploratory evaluation of ALN-CC5 effects on levels of lactate dehydrogenase, or LDH, a measure of endogenous red blood cell hemolysis. Dosing of the first PNH patients was initiated in December 2015. 

In December 2015, we reported interim results from our ongoing Phase 1/2 clinical study including updated data (N=20) from the SAD cohorts, as well as initial data (N=12) from MAD cohorts as of a data cutoff date of up to November 6, 2015. These results showed that ALN-CC5 achieved up to 99% knockdown of serum C5 and a mean maximum 84% inhibition of serum sheep red blood cell hemolytic activity. In addition, ALN-CC5 administration resulted in low levels of residual C5, which &#151; based on comparisons from separate studies &#151; were at or below the estimated levels of free C5 observed at therapeutic doses of eculizumab. The effects of ALN-CC5 were also found to be highly durable, with C5 knockdown and complement inhibition results supporting a once-monthly and possibly a once-quarterly, fixed-dose subcutaneous regimen. 

Safety data were reported as of a data cutoff date of October 19, 2015 and all safety results were blinded as to treatment allocation. Single and multiple weekly subcutaneous doses of ALN-CC5 or placebo were generally well tolerated with no clinically significant, drug-related AEs reported. There were no SAEs, study discontinuations or clinically significant laboratory findings. In Part A of the study, a total of 29 AEs were observed, all of them mild or moderate in severity, of which three were deemed possibly related to ALN-CC5 or placebo. Two patients experienced mild, transient ISRs. In Part B of the study, a total of 30 AEs were observed, all of them mild or moderate in severity, of which 12 AEs were deemed possibly related to ALN-CC5 or placebo. Four subjects experienced mild, transient ISRs. We plan to report initial data from Part C of our Phase 1/2 clinical trial, which is being conducted in PNH patients, in mid-2016. 

ALN-AS1 &#151; Acute Hepatic Porphyrias 

ALN-AS1 is a subcutaneously administered, investigational RNAi therapeutic targeting aminolevulinate synthase-1, or ALAS-1, for the treatment of acute hepatic porphyrias. The porphyrias are a family of rare metabolic disorders with autosomal dominant inheritance predominately caused by a genetic mutation in one of the eight enzymes responsible for heme biosynthesis. Acute hepatic porphyrias, or AHPs, constitute a subset of porphyrias that are characterized by acute neurovisceral attacks and in some instances, skin manifestations. The enzyme deficiency in AHP occurs within the liver, and includes acute intermittent porphyria, or AIP, hereditary coproporphyria, variegate porphyria and hereditary delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase deficiency. The initial focus of the ALN-AS1 program is on AIP, the most common AHP, which is an ultra-rare disease caused by loss of function mutations in porphobilinogen deaminase, or PBGD, that can result in the upstream accumulation of toxic heme intermediates, including aminolevulinic acid, or ALA, and porphobilinogen, or PBG. Exposure of 

&#160; 

AIP patients to certain drugs, dieting or hormonal changes can trigger strong induction of ALAS-1, the first and rate-limiting enzyme in the pathway, which can lead to accumulation of the toxic heme intermediates that precipitate disease symptoms. Patients with one of the AHPs can have acute and/or recurrent attacks that are characterized by severe abdominal pain, paresis or paralysis, neuropsychiatric manifestations, cutaneous lesions and, in some instances, death if untreated or if treatment is delayed. It is estimated that approximately 5,000 patients in the United States and Europe suffer sporadic AIP attacks annually, and approximately 1,000 patients are afflicted with recurrent, debilitating attacks. The only approved treatments for acute attacks are preparations of heme derived from human blood. Heme requires administration through a large vein or central venous catheter and is associated with a number of side effects including thrombophlebitis, coagulation abnormalities, headaches and hypersensitivity reactions. While heme is not approved for prophylactic use (i.e., the prevention of acute attacks), it is sometimes used in this manner in patients who experience recurrent attacks. Chronic administration of heme has been found to result in renal insufficiency, iron overload, systemic infections (due to the requirement for central venous access) and, in some instances, tachyphylaxis. There is a clear unmet need for new therapies for AIP that could be both safer and more effective and more convenient to administer than available therapies. 

ALN-AS1 utilizes our ESC-GalNAc-siRNA conjugate delivery platform and has the potential to be a prophylactic approach for the prevention of recurrent attacks, as well as a therapy for the treatment of acute porphyria attacks. We are evaluating ALN-AS1 in an ongoing Phase 1 study being conducted in three parts. Parts A and B are placebo-controlled, randomized (3:1, drug:placebo), single-blind, single-dose (Part A) and multi-dose (Part B), dose-escalation studies, designed to enroll up to a total of 40 asymptomatic &#147;high excreter&#148;, or ASHE, subjects. Per the protocol, ASHE subjects in the study have a defined mutation in the PBGD gene and elevated urinary levels of ALA and PBG, but do not have a recent history of porphyria attacks or current disease activity. The primary objective of Parts A and B is to evaluate safety and tolerability of single and multiple subcutaneous doses of ALN-AS1. Secondary objectives include evaluation of clinical activity for ALN-AS1 as measured by reduction in plasma and urinary levels of ALA and PBG. Exploratory objectives include the impact of ALN-AS1 on liver ALAS1 messenger RNA, or mRNA, as measured from circulatory or excreted exosomal mRNA preparations in serum or urine, respectively. Part C, initiated in February 2016, is a multi-dose study in up to 12 AIP patients who experience recurrent porphyria attacks, assessing safety, tolerability, pharmacodynamics (i.e., lowering of serum and urine ALA and PBG, as well as liver ALAS1 mRNA), and clinical activity of multiple doses of ALN-AS1. Part C will include an exploratory evaluation of the effects of ALN-AS1 on the number and severity of attacks and other disease symptoms, use of heme and pain medications, number and duration of hospitalizations, and quality of life. 

In September 2015, we reported initial results from our ongoing Phase 1 study. All results reported were based on data in the database as of September 2, 2015. A total of 16 ASHE patients were enrolled in four SAD cohorts (N=4 per group), with subjects receiving 0.035, 0.1, 0.35 or 1.0 mg/kg doses of ALN-AS1. Measurement of ALAS1 mRNA levels employed a method known as circulating extracellular mRNA detection, or cERD, and was performed using serial serum and urine samples. At baseline, ASHE patients enrolled in the study were found to have substantially higher levels of liver ALAS1 mRNA detected in serum and urine relative to normal healthy volunteers. ALN-AS1 administration resulted in potent, dose-dependent and durable silencing of liver ALAS1 mRNA measured in serum and urine of up to 59%. Nadir silencing was achieved at approximately day 21, and effects were highly durable lasting over 42 days after a single dose. ASHE patients are asymptomatic, but have increased ALA and PBG levels that, while lower than those seen in AIP patients during an acute attack, are still significantly higher than normal reference values. In the Phase 1 study in ASHE patients (Part A), mean baseline urinary levels of ALA and PBG were 11.0 and 21.7 mmol/mol creatinine, respectively. Compared to normal, these levels were elevated by approximately 3-fold for ALA and 14-fold for PBG. A single subcutaneous dose of ALN-AS1 resulted in potent, dose-dependent and highly durable lowering of ALA of up to 82% and PBG of up to 93%. As with ALAS1 mRNA silencing, nadir effects on ALA and PBG were observed on day 21. Further, reductions in ALA and PBG were highly durable, with effects lasting over 42 days after a single dose. The durability of ALN-AS1 clinical activity is supportive of a once-monthly and possibly a once-quarterly, subcutaneous dose regimen. 

&#160; 

ALN-AS1 was found to be generally well tolerated with no clinically significant drug-related AEs through the data cutoff date. There was one SAE of acute abdominal pain, which was deemed to be unlikely related to study drug. There were no study discontinuations. An additional 28 mild to moderate AEs were reported, of which 26 were determined to be not related or unlikely related to ALN-AS1 administration; these occurred with similar incidence in placebo and ALN-AS1 patients, with no dose-dependent trends. One patient in the 1.0 mg/kg cohort experienced a mild, localized ISR, consisting of transient erythema. There were no other clinically significant, drug-related abnormalities in any laboratory or hematologic assessment, vital signs, electrocardiograms or physical examinations. We expect to report additional data from the ongoing Phase 1 study of ALN-AS1, including initial data in patients that experience recurring porphyria attacks, in late 2016. 

In September 2015, we also reported initial results, from data in the database as of August 14, 2015, from our ongoing EXPLORE study, a multinational, prospective observational study of patients with AHP suffering from recurrent attacks. The goal of the study is to provide enhanced understanding of the natural history of AHP in patients with recurrent attacks, as well as to obtain information about the burden of disease, current management and unmet need. Initial data were from 68 patients, who had a mean of 10.6 &#177; 11.0 attacks for the 12 months prior to study entry. The data suggested that elevated levels of ALAS1 mRNA, ALA and PBG are associated with acute attacks in patients with acute hepatic porphyria, and that they may be useful biomarkers for disease activity. 

ALN-AAT &#151; AAT Deficiency-Associated Liver Disease 

ALN-AAT is a subcutaneously administered, investigational RNAi therapeutic targeting alpha-1 antitrypsin, or AAT, for the treatment of AAT deficiency-associated liver disease, also known as alpha-1 liver disease. AAT deficiency is an inherited disorder that results in disease of the lungs and liver. AAT is a liver-produced serine proteinase inhibitor with the primary function of protecting tissues, in particular the lungs, from neutrophil elastases that are elaborated during the course of inflammatory responses to infections and other irritants. About 95% of people with clinically significant AAT deficiency are homozygous for a mutation in the SERPINA1 gene that encodes the abnormal AAT protein, Z-AAT, or PiZZ. In the liver, misfolding of the mutant Z-AAT protein hinders its normal release into the blood thereby causing it to aggregate in hepatocytes, leading to liver injury, fibrosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. There are estimated to be approximately 120,000 individuals with the PiZZ mutation in the United States and major European countries, and of these, about 10% have an associated liver pathology, or alpha-1 liver disease, caused by the misfolded Z-AAT protein. The only treatment options presently available for alpha-1 liver disease patients are supportive care and, in the case of advanced cirrhosis, liver transplantation. RNAi-mediated inhibition of AAT in people with alpha-1 liver disease may represent a promising new way to treat this rare disease. 

ALN-AAT utilizes our ESC-GalNAc-siRNA conjugate delivery platform. We are evaluating ALN-AAT in a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 1/2 clinical trial being conducted in three parts. Parts A and B are single-dose (Part A) and multi-dose (Part B), dose-escalation studies, designed to enroll up to a total of 48 healthy adult volunteers. Part C will be a multi-dose study in adults with the PiZZ mutation in their AAT gene and with mild-to-moderate liver fibrosis. The primary objective of the study is to evaluate safety and tolerability of single and multiple subcutaneous doses of ALN-AAT. Secondary objectives include evaluation of pharmacokinetics of ALN-AAT and clinical activity for ALN-AAT as measured by knockdown of serum AAT. We expect to present initial clinical date from our Phase 1/2 study in mid-2016. 

Pre-clinical data for ALN-AAT demonstrate that monthly subcutaneous doses of ALN-AAT achieve robust knockdown of serum AAT, the disease-causing protein, of up to 93% in NHPs, with highly durable effects and a wide therapeutic index. In addition, pre-clinical data demonstrate that ALN-AAT can reduce liver levels of mutant AAT, improve histopathology associated with mutant AAT expression, and reduce liver fibrosis and the incidence of tumor formation in a mouse model of alpha-1 liver disease. 

Additional Genetic Medicine Programs 

In addition to the programs described above, we are also advancing other early stage Genetic Medicine programs. These programs include: ALN-GO1, an investigational RNAi therapeutic targeting glycolate oxidase, 

&#160; 

or GO, for the treatment of primary hyperoxaluria type 1, or PH1 for which we have filed a clinical trial authorization application, or CTA, and expect to initiate a clinical trial in early 2016; and other yet to be disclosed programs. We intend to file an IND application, or IND equivalent, such as a CTA, for a new, undisclosed Genetic Medicine program in late 2016 and to advance additional undisclosed Genetic Medicine pre-clinical programs in 2016 as well. 

Sanofi Genzyme Alliance 

In January 2014, we entered into the 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration, which is an exclusive relationship for the worldwide development and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics in the field of Genetic Medicines, which includes our current and future Genetic Medicine programs that reach human proof-of-principal study completion, or Human POP, by the end of 2019, subject to extension to the end of 2021 in various circumstances. We will retain product rights in North America and Western Europe, while Sanofi Genzyme will obtain exclusive rights to develop and commercialize collaboration products in the rest of the world, referred to as the Sanofi Genzyme Territory, together with certain broader co-development/co-promote or worldwide rights for certain products. Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s rights are structured as an opt-in that is triggered upon achievement of Human POP. We maintain development control for all programs prior to Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s opt-in and maintain development and commercialization control after Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s opt-in for all programs in our territory. 

In addition to its regional rights for our current and future Genetic Medicine STAr programs in the Sanofi Genzyme Territory, Sanofi Genzyme has the right to either (i) co-develop and co-promote fitusiran for the treatment of hemophilia and other RBD in our territory, with us maintaining development and commercialization control, or (ii) obtain a global license to ALN-AS1 for the treatment of hepatic porphyrias. Sanofi Genzyme will exercise this selection right upon the completion of Human POP for both the fitusiran and ALN-AS1 programs. Finally, Sanofi Genzyme has the right for a global license to a single, future Genetic Medicine program that was not one of our defined Genetic Medicine programs as of the effective date of the 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration. We retain global rights to any RNAi therapeutic Genetic Medicine program that does not reach Human POP by the end of 2019, subject to certain limited exceptions. 

We are leading development and commercialization of patisiran in North America and Western Europe while Sanofi Genzyme will develop and commercialize the product in the Sanofi Genzyme Territory. In addition, we and Sanofi Genzyme are co-developing and co-commercializing revusiran in North America and Western Europe, with Sanofi Genzyme developing and commercializing the product in the Sanofi Genzyme Territory. In September 2015, Sanofi Genzyme elected to opt into our fitusiran clinical development program for the treatment of hemophilia and other RBDs for development and potential future commercialization in territories outside of North America and Western Europe. This represents the first product from our Genetic Medicine pipeline into which Sanofi Genzyme has opted since the formation of the companies&#146; global alliance, and the third product opt-in overall. Sanofi Genzyme retains its future opt-in right to co-develop and co-promote fitusiran with us in North America and Western Europe described above. 

The 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration is described below under the heading &#147;Strategic Alliances.&#148; 

Cardio-Metabolic Disease STAr 

In our Cardio-Metabolic Disease STAr, we are advancing our pipeline of investigational RNAi therapeutics toward genetically validated, liver-expressed disease targets for unmet needs in dyslipidemias, NASH, type 2 diabetes, hypertension and other major diseases. We believe that new discoveries in the human genetics of cardio-metabolic disease, together with innovative clinical development strategies in morbid sub-populations, create opportunities for new, potentially transformative medicines. Further, we believe the emerging profile of our ESC-GalNAc conjugates with the potential for once-quarterly and possibly bi-annual, low-volume, subcutaneous dose administration and a wide therapeutic index supports advancement of new medicines in this disease area. We intend to seek strategic collaboration opportunities for programs in our Cardio-Metabolic Disease STAr, while retaining significant product development and commercialization rights in the United States and EU. 

&#160; 

Our Cardio-Metabolic Disease development programs are described in more detail below. 

ALN-PCSsc &#151; Hypercholesterolemia 

ALN-PCSsc is a subcutaneously administered investigational RNAi therapeutic targeting proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, or PCSK9, for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. PCSK9 is a protein involved in the regulation of low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, receptor levels on hepatocytes and the metabolism of LDL cholesterol, or LDL-C, which is commonly referred to as &#147;bad&#148; cholesterol. PCSK9 is produced by the liver and circulates in the bloodstream. Both intracellular and extracellular PCSK9 reduce the liver&#146;s capacity to absorb LDL-C by decreasing LDL receptor levels. Published studies indicate that, if PCSK9 activity could be reduced, the liver&#146;s uptake of LDL-C should increase and blood cholesterol levels should decrease. In fact, published case reports have shown individuals with loss-of-function genetic mutations in PCSK9 have decreased blood cholesterol levels. In turn, these individuals have been shown to have a dramatically reduced risk of coronary artery disease, or CAD, including myocardial infarction or heart attack. In addition, studies have shown that PCSK9 levels are increased by statin therapy, limiting their effect, suggesting that the introduction of a PCSK9 inhibitor to statin therapy may result in even further reductions in LDL-C levels. Hypercholesterolemia is a condition characterized by very high levels of cholesterol in the blood which is known to increase the risk of coronary artery disease, the leading cause of death in the United States. Some forms of hypercholesterolemia can be treated through dietary restrictions, lifestyle modifications (e.g., exercise and smoking cessation) and medicines such as statins. However, a large proportion of patients with hypercholesterolemia are not achieving target LDL-C levels with currently available therapies such as statins, including genetic familial hypercholesterolemia patients, acute coronary syndrome patients, high-risk patient populations (e.g., patients with CAD, diabetes, symptomatic carotid artery disease), and other patients that are statin intolerant. Severe forms of hypercholesterolemia are estimated to affect more than 500,000 patients worldwide, and as a result, there is a significant need for novel therapeutics to treat patients with hypercholesterolemia whose disease is inadequately managed by existing therapies. 

ALN-PCSsc utilizes our ESC-GalNAc-siRNA conjugate delivery platform. We are evaluating ALN-PCSsc in a recently completed Phase 1 study which is being conducted in the U.K. as a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, single ascending- and multi-dose, subcutaneous dose-escalation study. The study was designed to enroll up to 76 volunteer subjects with elevated baseline LDL-C ( &#179; 100 mg/dL), with subjects randomized 3:1, drug: placebo. The study was performed in two phases: a SAD phase and a MAD phase. The MAD phase also included subjects both on and off statin co-medication. The primary objective of the Phase 1 study was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of ALN-PCSsc. Secondary objectives included assessment of clinical activity as determined by knockdown of plasma PCSK9 levels and lowering of serum LDL-C levels, as well as pharmacokinetics of ALN-PCSsc. 

In November 2015, we reported interim results from our recently completed Phase 1 clinical trial with ALN-PCSsc as of a data transfer date of September 24, 2015. The effects of ALN-PCSsc were found to be highly durable, with clinically significant and clamped reductions in LDL-C, supportive of a potential bi-annual subcutaneous dose regimen. Specifically, results from the SAD cohorts (N=24) showed: maximal PCSK9 knockdown of 88.7% with mean maximum knockdown of up to 82.3% and maximal LDL-C reduction of 78.1% with mean maximum lowering of up to 59.3%; and at day 180, an up to 53% reduction in LDL-C, with a least squares mean percent lowering of 47% in the 300 mg dose cohort. Results from the MAD cohorts (N=45) showed: maximal PCSK9 knockdown of 94.4% with mean maximum knockdown of up to 88.5%; maximal LDL-C reduction of 83% with mean maximum lowering of up to 64.4%; and at day 208 &#151; approximately six months after the last dose &#151; an up to 60% reduction in LDL-C, with a least squares mean percent lowering of 44.4% in the 300 mg dose cohort. Significant reductions of lipoprotein (a), or Lp(a), total cholesterol, apolipoprotein B and non-HDL cholesterol were also observed, without any significant change in HDL cholesterol. Similar effects were observed in subjects with and without concomitant statin therapy. 

Through the data cutoff date, ALN-PCSsc was generally well tolerated following single and multiple subcutaneous dose administration, with no SAEs or discontinuations due to AEs. All observed AEs were mild or moderate in severity, and were generally similar in subjects with and without concomitant statin administration. 

&#160; 

At the higher drug exposures, four subjects experienced mild, localized, and self-limiting ISRs. One subject developed an approximately four times upper limit of normal increase in alanine transaminase, or ALT, without increase in bilirubin that was attributed to concomitant statin therapy; ALT levels resolved upon statin discontinuation and were found to be elevated a second time after re-challenge with a lower dose of the same statin. 

In February 2013, we and MDCO entered into a license and collaboration agreement pursuant to which we granted to MDCO an exclusive, worldwide license to develop, manufacture and commercialize RNAi therapeutics targeting PCSK9 for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and other human diseases. Under the terms of the agreement, we were responsible for conducting certain pre-clinical studies, as well as the Phase 1 clinical study of ALN-PCSsc described above, and MDCO is responsible for leading and funding development from Phase 2 forward, as well as potential commercialization. Under the terms of the agreement with MDCO, the development leadership of ALN-PCSsc has now transferred from us to MDCO. In January 2016, MDCO initiated a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical study of ALN-PCSsc, known as ORION-1, that is designed to enroll up to 480 patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and elevated LDL-C. A description of our agreement with MDCO is included below under the heading &#147;Strategic Alliances.&#148; 

Additional Cardio-Metabolic Disease Programs 

In addition to ALN-PCSsc, we are also advancing other early stage Cardio-Metabolic Disease programs. These programs include additional investigational programs for the treatment of dyslipidemias, including ALN-AC3 targeting Apolipoprotein C3, or ApoC3, for the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia, ALN-ANG targeting Angiopoetin-like 3, or ANGPTL3, for the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia and mixed hyperlipidemia, and ALN-AGT targeting angiotensinogen, or AGT, for the treatment of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy including preeclampsia. Finally, we are advancing a number of undisclosed pre-clinical programs for the treatment of NASH and type 2 diabetes. 

Hepatic Infectious Disease STAr 

In our Hepatic Infectious Disease STAr, we are advancing a pipeline of investigational RNAi therapeutics that address major global health challenges, including but not limited to hepatitis B and hepatitis D viral infections. We intend to seek strategic collaboration opportunities for programs in our Hepatic Infectious Disease STAr, while retaining significant product development and commercialization rights in the United States and EU. 

Our Hepatic Infectious Disease development programs are described in more detail below. 

ALN-HBV &#151; Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) 

The hepatitis B virus, or HBV, is the most common serious liver infection in the world. Worldwide, two billion people (one out of three people) have been infected with HBV and 400 million people have become chronically infected. An estimated one million people die each year from HBV infection and its complications worldwide; about 5,000 of those are in the United States. The clinical manifestations are severe. Worldwide, chronic infection with hepatitis causes 80% of all hepatocellular carcinoma, or HCC, and more than 500,000 people die each year from this form of cancer. About five percent of the population is chronically infected with HBV, and nearly 25% of all such HBV carriers develop serious liver diseases such as chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and HCC. Despite the use of nucleoside analog inhibitors of viral DNA synthesis and interferon therapies, the cure rate for chronic HBV infection is less than ten percent. Reduction in HBV surface antigen, or HBsAg, levels of over 0.5 log 10 is the single best predictor of immunologic cure. We believe an RNAi therapeutic inhibiting all steps of the HBV life cycle and silencing tolerogenic viral antigens has the potential to achieve a &#147;functional cure.&#148; 

We have identified a development candidate for our ALN-HBV program that utilizes our proprietary ESC-GalNAc-siRNA conjugate delivery platform and targets the HBV genome. In a rodent model of HBV, a single subcutaneous dose of this investigational RNAi therapeutic, at 3 mg/kg, resulted in an up to 3.9 log 10 reduction in HBsAg levels (mean 1.8 log 10 reduction). We expect to file an IND or IND equivalent for this program in early 2016. 

&#160; 

Our ALN-HBV program derives from our 2014 acquisition of the RNAi assets of Merck, including Sirna. 

Additional Hepatic Infectious Disease Programs 

In addition to ALN-HBV, we are also advancing other early stage Hepatic Infectious Disease programs. These programs include: ALN-HDV, an investigational RNAi therapeutic targeting the hepatitis delta virus, or HDV, for the treatment of HDV infection; ALN-PDL, an investigational RNAi therapeutic targeting hepatocyte-expressed programmed death ligand 1, or PD-L1, an immune checkpoint inhibitor, for the treatment of chronic liver infections; and other yet to be disclosed programs. 

Our Collaboration and Licensing Strategy 

Our business strategy is to develop and commercialize a broad pipeline of RNAi therapeutic products directed towards our three STArs: Genetic Medicines; Cardio-Metabolic Diseases; and Hepatic Infectious Diseases. As part of this strategy, we have entered into, and expect to enter into additional, collaboration and licensing agreements as a means of obtaining resources, capabilities and funding to advance our investigational RNAi therapeutic programs. 

Our collaboration strategy is to form alliances that create significant value for ourselves and our collaborators in the advancement of RNAi therapeutics as a new class of innovative medicines. Specifically, with respect to our Genetic Medicine pipeline, we formed a broad strategic alliance with Sanofi Genzyme in 2014 pursuant to which we retain development and commercial rights for our current and future Genetic Medicine products in North America and Western Europe, and Sanofi Genzyme will develop and commercialize our current and future Genetic Medicine products principally in territories outside of North America and Western Europe, subject to certain broader rights. With respect to our Cardio-Metabolic and Hepatic Infectious Disease pipelines, we intend to seek future strategic alliances for these programs, while retaining significant product development and commercialization rights in the United States and EU. We currently have a global alliance with MDCO for the development and commercialization of our ALN-PCSsc program. 

We also seek to form or advance new ventures and opportunities in areas outside our primary focus on RNAi therapeutics. In 2007, we and Ionis formed Regulus to capitalize on our technology and intellectual property in the field of microRNA therapeutics. Currently, we own approximately 11% of Regulus&#146; outstanding common stock. 

We have entered into license agreements with Ionis, Max Planck Innovation GmbH (formerly known as Garching Innovation GmbH), or Max Planck Innovation, Cancer Research Technology Limited, or CRT, and Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, or Whitehead, as well as a number of other entities, to obtain rights to intellectual property in the field of RNAi. In addition, because delivery of RNAi therapeutics has historically been an important objective of our research activities, we have also evaluated potential collaboration and licensing arrangements with other companies and academic institutions to gain access to delivery technologies. For example, we entered into agreements with Arbutus Biopharma Corporation, or ABC (formerly Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corporation), Protiva Biotherapeutics, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of ABC, and together with ABC, referred to as Arbutus, The University of British Columbia, or UBC, and Acuitas Therapeutics Inc., or Acuitas (formerly AlCana Technologies, Inc.), among others, related to various LNP delivery technologies. Finally, we have sought, and may seek in the future, funding for the development of our proprietary RNAi therapeutics pipeline from the government and foundations. 

Strategic Alliances 

We have formed, and intend to continue to form, strategic alliances to gain access to the financial, technical, clinical and commercial resources necessary to develop and market RNAi therapeutics. We expect these alliances to provide us with financial support in the form of upfront cash payments, license fees, equity investments, research and development funding, milestone payments and/or royalties or profit sharing based on sales of RNAi therapeutics. Our key strategic alliance and license agreements are described below. 

&#160; 

Product Alliances. 

Sanofi Genzyme. In January 2014, we entered into a global, strategic collaboration with Sanofi Genzyme to discover, develop and commercialize RNAi therapeutics as Genetic Medicines to treat orphan diseases. The 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration superseded and replaced the previous collaboration between us and Sanofi Genzyme entered into in October 2012 to develop and commercialize RNAi therapeutics targeting TTR for the treatment of ATTR amyloidosis, including patisiran and revusiran, in Japan and the Asia-Pacific region. 

The 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration is structured as an exclusive relationship for the worldwide development and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics in the field of Genetic Medicines, which includes our current and future Genetic Medicine programs that reach Human POP by the end of 2019, subject to extension to the end of 2021 in various circumstances. We will retain product rights in North America and Western Europe, referred to as the Alnylam Territory, while Sanofi Genzyme will obtain exclusive rights to develop and commercialize collaboration products in the Sanofi Genzyme Territory, together with certain broader co-development/co-promote or worldwide rights for certain products. Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s rights, described in detail below, are structured as an opt-in that is triggered upon achievement of Human POP. We maintain development control for all programs prior to Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s opt-in and maintain development and commercialization control after Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s opt-in for all programs in the Alnylam Territory. 

Specifically, in addition to its regional rights for our current and future Genetic Medicine programs in the Sanofi Genzyme Territory, Sanofi Genzyme has the right to either (i) co-develop and co-promote fitusiran for the treatment of hemophilia and other RBD in the Alnylam Territory, with us maintaining development and commercialization control, or (ii) obtain a global license to ALN-AS1 for the treatment of hepatic porphyrias. Sanofi Genzyme may exercise this selection right upon the completion of Human POP for both the fitusiran and ALN-AS1 programs. Finally, Sanofi Genzyme has the right for a global license to a single, future Genetic Medicine program that was not one of our defined Genetic Medicine programs as of the effective date of the 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration. We will retain global rights to any RNAi therapeutic Genetic Medicine program that does not reach Human POP by the end of 2019, subject to certain limited exceptions. We retain full rights to all current and future RNAi therapeutic programs outside of the field of Genetic Medicines, including the right to form new collaborations. 

Under the 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration, Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s specific license rights and the programs into which Sanofi Genzyme has opted include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Regional license terms and programs &#151; Upon opt-in, we will retain product rights in the Alnylam Territory, while Sanofi Genzyme will obtain exclusive rights to develop and commercialize the product in the Sanofi Genzyme Territory. Sanofi Genzyme can elect this license for any of our current and future Genetic Medicine programs that complete Human POP by the end of 2019, subject to limited extension. Development costs for products, once Sanofi Genzyme exercises an option, will be shared between Sanofi Genzyme and us, with Sanofi Genzyme responsible for twenty percent of the global development costs. Upon the effective date of the 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration, Sanofi Genzyme expanded the scope of its regional license and collaboration for patisiran, which was originally established under the 2012 Sanofi Genzyme agreement. In September 2015, Sanofi Genzyme elected to opt into our fitusiran clinical development program for the treatment of hemophilia and other RBDs under the regional license terms. As described above, Genzyme retains its future opt-in right to co-develop and co-promote fitusiran in the Alnylam Territory pursuant to the co-development/co-promote license terms described below. Cost-sharing for the fitusiran program began in January 2016. Sanofi Genzyme will be required to make payments totaling up to $50.0 million upon the achievement of certain patisiran development milestones. In addition, Sanofi Genzyme will be required to make payments totaling up to $75.0 million per product other than patisiran, including fitusiran, consisting of up to $55.0 million in development milestones and $20.0 million in commercial milestones. Sanofi Genzyme will also be required to pay tiered double-digit royalties up to twenty percent for each regional product based on annual net sales, if any, of such regional product by Sanofi Genzyme, its affiliates and sublicensees. 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Co-development/co-promote license terms and programs &#151; Upon opt-in, we will retain product rights in the Alnylam Territory, while Sanofi Genzyme will obtain exclusive rights to develop and commercialize the product in the Sanofi Genzyme Territory, and will co-promote the product in the Alnylam Territory. Upon the effective date of the 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration, Sanofi Genzyme expanded its regional rights for revusiran, which were originally granted under the 2012 Sanofi Genzyme agreement, to include a co-development/co-promote license and collaboration. As noted above, Sanofi Genzyme also has the right to elect a co-development/co-promote license and collaboration for fitusiran, if it does not elect a global license and collaboration for ALN-AS1. Development costs for co-development/co-promote products, once Sanofi Genzyme exercises an option, will be shared between Sanofi Genzyme and us, with Sanofi Genzyme responsible for fifty percent of the global development costs. Sanofi Genzyme will be required to make payments totaling up to $75.0 million in development milestones for revusiran and, if selected, fitusiran. To date, we have received a $25.0 million milestone payment for revusiran. Sanofi Genzyme will also be required to pay tiered double-digit royalties up to twenty percent for each co-development/co-promote product based on annual net sales, if any, in the Sanofi Genzyme Territory for such co-development/co-promote product by Sanofi Genzyme, its affiliates and sublicensees. The parties will share profits equally and we expect to book product sales in the Alnylam Territory. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Global license terms and programs &#151; Upon opt-in, Sanofi Genzyme will obtain a worldwide license to develop and commercialize the product. Sanofi Genzyme can elect a global license for ALN-AS1, if it does not elect a co-development/co-promote license for fitusiran, as described above. Sanofi Genzyme will also have one right to a global license through 2019, subject to limited extension, for a future Genetic Medicine program that was not one of our defined Genetic Medicine programs as of the effective date of the 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration. Sanofi Genzyme shall be responsible for one hundred percent of global development costs. Sanofi Genzyme will be required to make payments totaling up to $200.0 million per global product, including up to $60.0 million in development milestones and $140.0 million in commercial milestones. Sanofi Genzyme will also be required to pay tiered double-digit royalties up to twenty percent for each global product based on annual net sales, if any, of each global product by Sanofi Genzyme, its affiliates and sublicensees. 

Due to the uncertainty of pharmaceutical development and the high historical failure rates generally associated with drug development, we may not receive any additional milestone payments or any royalty payments from Sanofi Genzyme under the 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration. 

Under the master agreement, the parties will collaborate in the development of option products, with us leading development for all programs prior to Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s opt-in and also leading development and commercialization for all programs in the Alnylam Territory after Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s opt-in. If Sanofi Genzyme does not exercise its option to license rights to a particular program, we will retain the exclusive right to develop and commercialize such program throughout the world, including the right to sublicense to third parties. 

The 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration is governed by an alliance joint steering committee that is comprised of an equal number of representatives from each party. There are additional committees to manage various aspects of each regional, co-developed/co-promoted and global program. We and Sanofi Genzyme intend to enter into supply agreements to provide for supply of collaboration products to Sanofi Genzyme for clinical studies, and, at Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s request, commercial sales. Sanofi Genzyme also has certain rights to manufacture collaboration products. Additionally, Sanofi Genzyme has certain limited opt-out rights, as specified in the master agreement, upon which products revert fully back to us with no further obligations to Sanofi Genzyme. 

The master agreement (including the license terms appended thereto) contains certain termination provisions, including for material breach by the other party. Unless terminated earlier pursuant to its terms, the master agreement will terminate upon the last to expire of any of the option periods under the master agreement or the license terms appended thereto. 

&#160; 

Upon the closing of the equity transaction in February 2014, we sold to Sanofi Genzyme 8,766,338 shares of our common stock and Sanofi Genzyme paid $700.0 million in aggregate cash consideration to us. As a condition to the closing of the equity transaction, Sanofi Genzyme entered into an investor agreement with us. Under the investor agreement, until the earlier of the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the 2014 Sanofi Genzyme collaboration and the date on which Sanofi Genzyme and its affiliates cease to beneficially own at least 5% of our outstanding common stock, Sanofi Genzyme and its affiliates are bound by certain &#147;standstill&#148; provisions. The standstill provisions include agreements not to acquire more than 30% of our outstanding common stock, call stockholder meetings, nominate directors other than those approved by our board of directors, subject to certain limited exceptions, or propose or support a proposal to acquire us. Further, Sanofi Genzyme has agreed to vote, and cause its affiliates to vote, all shares of our voting securities they are entitled to vote, up to a maximum of 20% of our outstanding common stock, in a manner either as recommended by our board of directors or proportionally with the votes cast by our other stockholders, except with respect to certain change of control transactions or our liquidation or dissolution. Until Sanofi Genzyme owns less than 7.5% of our outstanding common stock, subject to Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s limited right to maintain its ownership percentage as described below, if we issue common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock to a third party that holds at least 30% of our outstanding common stock or, in connection with a collaboration or license transaction, to a third party that will initially hold at least the percentage of our outstanding common stock represented by the shares purchased by Sanofi Genzyme at the closing of the equity transaction, we will offer Sanofi Genzyme an opportunity to amend the standstill and voting provisions in the investor agreement to be consistent with the terms provided to such third party. 

Under the investor agreement, Sanofi Genzyme has also agreed not to dispose of any shares of common stock beneficially owned by it immediately after the closing of the stock purchase until the earlier of (i) December 31, 2019 (subject to extension by up to two years if Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s option to select additional compounds under the master agreement is extended beyond December 31, 2019) and (ii) six months after the expiration or earlier valid termination of the collaboration, in each case subject to earlier termination in the event certain clinical activities under the collaboration fail to occur. Following the expiration of this lock-up period, Sanofi Genzyme will be permitted to sell such shares of common stock subject to certain limitations, including volume and manner of sale restrictions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, following the two-year anniversary of the closing of the stock purchase, in the event that the market price per share of our common stock is at least 100% higher than the market price per share of our common stock at closing of the stock purchase (in each case based upon a ten-day trailing average), Sanofi Genzyme may sell up to 25% of its initial shares, subject to certain restrictions on post-lock-up period dispositions as described above. 

Under the investor agreement, following the lock-up period, Sanofi Genzyme will have three demand rights to require us to conduct a registered underwritten public offering with respect to the shares of common stock beneficially owned by Sanofi Genzyme immediately after the closing of the stock purchase, subject to certain conditions. In addition, following the lock-up period, subject to certain conditions, Sanofi Genzyme will be entitled to participate in registered underwritten public offerings by us if other selling stockholders are included in the registration. 

The investor agreement provides that, until Sanofi Genzyme owns less than 7.5% of our outstanding common stock, subject to Sanofi Genzyme&#146;s limited right to maintain its ownership percentage as described herein, in connection with new issuances of common stock, subject to certain exceptions, Sanofi Genzyme will be entitled to a right of first offer to participate proportionally to maintain its then-current ownership percentage of our common stock. If Sanofi Genzyme is not entitled to a right of first offer with respect to a new issuance, Sanofi Genzyme will have the opportunity, on a post-transaction basis, to purchase additional shares sufficient to maintain its pre-transaction ownership percentage of our common stock (subject to the same 7.5% ownership threshold). 

In accordance with our investor agreement with Sanofi Genzyme, as a result of our issuance of shares in connection with our acquisition of Sirna in March 2014, Sanofi Genzyme exercised its right to purchase an additional 344,448 shares of our common stock for $23.0 million. In addition, in January 2015, in connection with our public offering, Sanofi Genzyme exercised its right to purchase directly from us, in concurrent private 

&#160; 

placements, 744,566 shares of common stock at the public offering price resulting in $70.7 million in proceeds to us. The sales of common stock to Sanofi Genzyme were not registered as part of the public offering, though they were consummated simultaneously with the public offering. 

In addition, Sanofi Genzyme has the right at the beginning of each year to purchase a number of shares of our common stock based on the number of shares we issued during the previous year for compensation-related purposes. Sanofi Genzyme exercised this right to purchase directly from us 196,251 shares of our common stock on January 22, 2015 for $18.3 million and 205,030 shares of our common stock on February 1, 2016 for $14.3 million. The sales of these shares to Sanofi Genzyme were consummated as private placements. 

In each instance, the purchase by Sanofi Genzyme described above allowed Sanofi Genzyme to maintain its ownership level of our common stock of approximately 12%. 

Finally, in the event Sanofi Genzyme and its affiliates acquire at least 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, Sanofi Genzyme will be entitled to appoint one individual to our board of directors. Sanofi Genzyme will also be entitled to certain information rights, including with respect to financial information in the event Sanofi Genzyme or its affiliates require such information for its own financial reporting purposes. The rights and restrictions under the investor agreement are subject to termination upon the occurrence of certain events. 

The Medicines Company. In February 2013, we and MDCO entered into a license and collaboration agreement pursuant to which we granted to MDCO an exclusive, worldwide license to develop, manufacture and commercialize RNAi therapeutics targeting PCSK9 for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and other human diseases. MDCO paid us an upfront cash payment of $25.0 million. Upon the achievement of certain events, we will be entitled to receive milestone payments, up to an aggregate of $180.0 million, including up to $30.0 million in specified development milestones, $50.0 million in specified regulatory milestones and $100.0 million in specified commercialization milestones. In addition, we will be entitled to royalties ranging from the low- to high-teens, based on annual worldwide net sales, if any, of licensed products by MDCO, its affiliates and sublicensees, subject to reduction under specified circumstances. To date, MDCO has paid us $10.0 million in development milestones under this agreement. Due to the uncertainty of pharmaceutical development and the high historical failure rates generally associated with drug development, we may not receive any additional milestone payments or any royalty payments from MDCO. 

Under the MDCO agreement, we and MDCO will collaborate in the further development of ALN-PCSsc. We had responsibility for the development of ALN-PCSsc until Phase 1 Completion, as defined in the MDCO agreement, at our cost, up to an agreed upon initial development cost cap. In late 2015, MDCO assumed responsibility for all development and commercialization of ALN-PCSsc, at its sole cost. The collaboration between us and MDCO is governed by a joint steering committee comprised of an equal number of representatives from each party. 

We were solely responsible for obtaining supply of finished product reasonably required for the conduct of our obligations under the initial development plan through Phase 1 Completion, and are responsible for supplying MDCO with finished product reasonably required for the first Phase 2 clinical trial of ALN-PCSsc conducted by MDCO, at our expense, provided such costs do not exceed the development costs cap, subject to certain exceptions. After such time, MDCO will have the sole right and responsibility to manufacture and supply ALN-PCSsc for development and commercialization under the MDCO development plan, subject to the terms of the MDCO agreement. We and MDCO have agreed to enter into a supply and technical transfer agreement to provide for supply of ALN-PCSsc to MDCO and for technology transfer to enable MDCO to manufacture and supply ALN-PCSsc as contemplated under the terms of the MDCO agreement. 

Unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of the agreement, the MDCO agreement expires on a licensed product-by-licensed product and country-by-country basis upon expiration of the last royalty term for any licensed product in any country, where a royalty term is defined as the latest to occur of (1) the expiration of the last valid claim of patent rights covering a licensed product, (2) the expiration of the Regulatory Exclusivity, as defined in the MDCO agreement, and (3) the twelfth anniversary of the first commercial sale of the licensed 

&#160; 

product in such country. We estimate that our fundamental RNAi patents covering licensed products under the MDCO agreement will expire both in and outside of the United States generally between 2016 and 2028. We also estimate that our ALN-PCS product-specific patents covering licensed products under the MDCO agreement in the United States and elsewhere will expire at the end of 2033. These patent rights are subject to potential patent term extensions and/or supplemental protection certificates extending such terms in countries where such extensions may become available. In addition, more patent filings relating to the collaboration may be made in the future. 

Either party may terminate the MDCO agreement in the event the other party fails to cure a material breach or upon patent-related challenges by the other party. In addition, MDCO has the right to terminate the agreement without cause at any time upon four months&#146; prior written notice. 

During the term of the MDCO agreement, neither party will, alone or with an affiliate or third party, research, develop or commercialize, or grant a license to any third party to research, develop or commercialize, in any country, any product directed to the PCSK9 gene, other than a licensed product, without the prior written agreement of the other party, subject to the terms of the MDCO agreement. 

Platform Alliances. 

Monsanto. In August 2012, we and Monsanto entered into a license and collaboration agreement, pursuant to which we granted to Monsanto a worldwide, exclusive, royalty bearing right and license, including the right to grant sublicenses, to our RNAi platform technology and intellectual property controlled by us as of the date of the Monsanto agreement or during the 30 months thereafter, in the field of agriculture. The Monsanto agreement also includes the transfer of technology from us to Monsanto and initially included a collaborative research project. Under the Monsanto agreement, Monsanto will be our exclusive collaborator in the agriculture field for a ten-year period. 

Monsanto paid us $29.2 million in upfront cash payments, and was also required to make near-term milestone payments to us upon the achievement of specified technology transfer and patent-related milestones. We were also entitled to receive additional funding for collaborative research efforts. In the aggregate, we had the ability to earn up to $5.0 million in milestone payments and research funding under the Monsanto alliance. We received a total of $4.0 million in milestone payments from Monsanto based upon the achievement of a specified patent-related event and the completion of technology transfer activities. In September 2014, we and Monsanto mutually determined not to pursue the discovery collaboration originally contemplated under the terms of the Monsanto agreement. Accordingly, Monsanto was not required to pay us the final milestone of $1.0 million. There are no remaining milestones under the Monsanto agreement. Monsanto is required to pay to us a percentage of specified fees from certain sublicense agreements Monsanto may enter into that include access to our intellectual property, as well as low single-digit royalty payments on worldwide, net sales by Monsanto, its affiliates and sublicensees of certain licensed products, as defined in the Monsanto agreement, if any. Due to the uncertainty of the application of RNAi technology in the field of agriculture, we may not receive any license fees or royalty payments from Monsanto. 

The term of the Monsanto agreement generally ends upon the expiration of the last-to-expire patent licensed under the agreement. We estimate that our fundamental RNAi patents licensed under the Monsanto agreement will expire both in and outside the United States generally between 2016 and 2025, subject to any potential patent term extensions and/or supplemental protection certificates extending such term extensions in countries where such extensions may become available. Monsanto may terminate the Monsanto agreement in its entirety upon 30-days&#146; prior written notice to us, provided, however, that Monsanto is required to continue to make royalty payments to us if any royalties were payable on net sales of a licensed product during the previous 24 months. The Monsanto agreement may also be terminated by either party in the event the other party fails to cure a material breach under the Monsanto agreement. 

Under the terms of the Monsanto agreement, in the event that during the exclusivity period we cease to own or otherwise exclusively control certain licensed patent rights in the agriculture field, for any reason other than Monsanto&#146;s breach of the Monsanto agreement or its negligence or willful misconduct, resulting in the loss of 

&#160; 

exclusivity with respect to Monsanto&#146;s rights to such patent rights, and such loss of exclusivity has a material adverse effect on the licensed products, then we would be required to pay Monsanto up to $5.0 million as liquidated damages, and Monsanto&#146;s royalty obligations to us under the Monsanto agreement would be reduced or, under certain circumstances, terminated. We have the right to cure any such loss of patent rights under the Monsanto agreement. 

Takeda. In May 2008, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Takeda to pursue the development and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics. Under the Takeda agreement, we granted to Takeda a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license to our intellectual property, including delivery-related intellectual property, controlled by us as of the date of the Takeda agreement or during the five years thereafter, to develop, manufacture, use and commercialize RNAi therapeutics, subject to our existing contractual obligations to third parties. The license initially is limited to the fields of oncology and metabolic disease and may be expanded at Takeda&#146;s option to include other therapeutic areas, subject to specified conditions. 

Takeda paid us an upfront payment of $100.0 million and an additional $50.0 million upon achievement of specified technology transfer milestones. In addition, for each RNAi therapeutic product developed by Takeda, its affiliates and sublicensees, we are entitled to receive specified development, regulatory and commercialization milestone payments, totaling up to $171.0 million per product, together with a double-digit percentage royalty payment based on worldwide annual net sales, if any. The potential future milestone payments per product include up to $26.0 million for the achievement of specified development milestones, up to $40.0 million for the achievement of specified regulatory milestones and up to $105.0 million for the achievement of specified commercialization milestones. Due to the uncertainty of pharmaceutical development and the high historical failure rates generally associated with drug development, we may not receive any additional milestone payments or any royalty payments from Takeda. 

The collaboration is governed by a joint technology transfer committee, a joint research collaboration committee and a joint delivery collaboration committee, each of which is comprised of an equal number of representatives from each party. The term of the Takeda agreement generally ends upon the later of (i) the expiration of our last-to-expire patent covering a licensed product and (ii) the last-to-expire term of a profit sharing agreement in the event we elect to enter into such an agreement. We estimate that our fundamental RNAi patents covered under the Takeda agreement will expire both in and outside the United States generally between 2016 and 2025, subject to any potential patent term extensions and/or supplemental protection certificates extending such term extensions in countries where such extensions may become available. The Takeda agreement may be terminated by either party in the event the other party fails to cure a material breach under the agreement. In addition, Takeda may terminate the agreement on a licensed product-by-licensed product or country-by-country basis upon 180-days&#146; prior written notice to us, provided, however, that Takeda is required to continue to make royalty payments to us for the duration of the royalty term with respect to a licensed product. 

Other Strategic License Agreements. 

Ionis. In January 2015, we and Ionis (formerly Isis) entered into a second amended and restated strategic collaboration and license agreement, which we further amended in July 2015. The 2015 Ionis agreement provides for certain new exclusive target cross-licenses of intellectual property on eight disease targets, providing each company with exclusive RNA therapeutic license rights for four programs, and extends the parties&#146; existing non-exclusive technology cross-license, which was originally entered into in 2004 and was amended and restated in 2009, through April 2019. 

Pursuant to the 2015 Ionis agreement, Ionis granted to us an exclusive, low single-digit royalty-bearing license to its chemistry, motif, mechanism and target-specific intellectual property for oligonucleotide therapeutics against four targets, including antithrombin, aminolevulinic acid synthase-1, alpha-1 antitrypsin and hydroxyacid oxidase 1. In exchange, we granted to Ionis an exclusive, low single-digit royalty-bearing license to our chemistry, motif, mechanism and target-specific intellectual property for oligonucleotide therapeutics against four targets, including Factor XI, apolipoprotein (a), diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2 and human growth hormone. 

&#160; 

In addition, under the 2015 Ionis agreement, the parties agreed to extend the existing non-exclusive technology cross-license through April 2019. Specifically, Ionis granted us a low single-digit royalty-bearing, non-exclusive license to new platform technology arising from May 2014 through April 2019 for double-stranded RNAi therapeutics. In turn, we granted Ionis a low single-digit royalty-bearing, non-exclusive license to new platform technology arising from May 2014 through April 2019 for single-stranded antisense therapeutics. This broad, non-exclusive cross-license includes chemistry, motif and mechanism patents, but excludes patent claims on formulations, manufacturing and specific targets. 

Under the original 2004 agreement, Ionis licensed to us its patent estate related to antisense motifs and mechanisms and oligonucleotide chemistry for double-stranded RNAi products in exchange for a previously disclosed technology access fee, participation in fees for our partnering programs and future milestone and royalty payments from us for programs that incorporate Ionis&#146; intellectual property. We have the right to use Ionis&#146; intellectual property in our development programs or in collaborations and Ionis agreed not to grant licenses under these patents to any other organization for the discovery, development and commercialization of double-stranded RNA products designed to work through an RNAi mechanism, except in the context of a collaboration in which Ionis plays an active role. 

In turn, under the original 2004 agreement, we non-exclusively licensed to Ionis our patent estate relating to antisense motifs and mechanisms and oligonucleotide chemistry to research, develop and commercialize single-stranded antisense therapeutics, single stranded RNAi therapeutics and to research double-stranded RNAi compounds. Ionis also received a license to develop and commercialize double-stranded RNAi drugs targeting a limited number of therapeutic targets on a non-exclusive basis. We granted these licenses for RNAi therapeutics in exchange for option fees, and future milestone and royalty payments from Ionis for RNAi programs that incorporate certain of our intellectual property. 

In August 2012, we and Ionis amended the agreement to provide certain terms for the discovery, development and commercialization of double-stranded RNA products by us or our sublicensees in the field of agriculture. 

As set forth in the 2015 Ionis agreement, under the original 2004 agreement, we agreed to pay Ionis milestone payments, totaling up to approximately $3.4 million, upon the occurrence of specified development and regulatory events, and low single-digit royalties on sales, if any, for each product that we or a collaborator develop using Ionis intellectual property. In addition, we agreed to pay to Ionis a percentage of specified fees from strategic collaborations we may enter into that include access to Ionis&#146; intellectual property. 

Ionis has the right to elect up to ten non-exclusive target licenses under the agreement and has the right to purchase one additional non-exclusive target per year during the term of the collaboration. Ionis agreed to pay us, per therapeutic target, a license fee of $0.5 million, milestone payments for double-stranded RNAi products totaling approximately $3.4 million, payable upon the occurrence of specified development and regulatory events, and low single-digit royalties on sales, if any, for each double-stranded RNAi or single-stranded RNAi product developed by Ionis or a collaborator that utilizes our intellectual property. Due to the uncertainty of pharmaceutical development and the high historical failure rates generally associated with drug development, we may not receive any milestone or royalty payments from Ionis. 

The term of the 2015 Ionis agreement generally ends upon the expiration of the last-to-expire patent licensed thereunder, whether such patent is a patent licensed by us to Ionis, or vice versa. Either party may terminate the 2015 Ionis agreement on 90 days&#146; prior written notice if the other party materially breaches the agreement and fails to cure the breach within the 90-day notice period and no substantial steps have otherwise been taken to cure the breach, provided, however, that neither party may terminate licenses granted to the other party to the extent necessary to develop or sell products that have at least reached investigational new drug-enabling studies (except for a party&#146;s uncured failure of its payment obligations). Either party may also terminate the agreement in the event the other party undergoes specified bankruptcy events. 

&#160; 

Intellectual Property Licenses 

In December 2002, we entered into a co-exclusive license with Max Planck Innovation for the worldwide rights to use and sublicense certain patented technology to develop and commercialize therapeutic products and related applications. We also obtained the rights to use, without the right to sublicense, the technology for all diagnostic uses other than for the purposes of therapeutic monitoring. We were also given the right to acquire the remaining 50% exclusive rights, which right we exercised upon our acquisition of Ribopharma AG in July 2003. In June 2005, we entered into an amendment to our agreement with Max Planck Innovation that secured our exclusivity to use and sublicense certain patented technology to develop and commercialize therapeutic products and related applications. 

We are not obligated to pay any development or sales milestone payments to Max Planck Innovation, however, we will be required to pay Max Planck Innovation future single-digit royalties on net sales of all therapeutic and prophylactic products developed with the technology, if any. 

Our agreements with Max Planck Innovation generally remain in effect until the expiration of the last-to-expire patent licensed thereunder. We estimate that the principal issued patents covered under the Max Planck Innovation agreements will expire both in and outside the United States during 2021, subject to any potential patent term extensions, restoration and/or supplemental protection certificates extending such term extensions in countries where such extensions may become available. We may terminate the agreements without cause with six months&#146; prior notice to Max Planck Innovation, and Max Planck Innovation may terminate the agreements in the event that we materially breach our obligations thereunder. Max Planck Innovation also has the right to terminate the agreements in the event that we, independently or through a third party, attack the validity of any of the licensed patents. 

Delivery-Related License Agreements 

Arbutus. In November 2012, we, ABC and Protiva agreed to restructure our existing contractual relationship. In connection with this restructuring, the parties entered into a cross-license agreement, and agreed to terminate certain prior agreements, including: the May 2008 amended and restated license and collaboration between us and ABC, the May 2008 amended and restated cross-license agreement between us and Protiva, and the January 2009 manufacturing agreement between us and ABC. 

Under the 2012 cross-license agreement, the parties consolidated certain intellectual property related to LNP technology for the systemic delivery of RNAi therapeutics. Specifically, certain patents and patent applications, including the MC3 lipid family, were assigned by us to ABC. We retain rights to use this intellectual property for the research, development and commercialization of RNAi therapeutic products, including the rights to sublicense this intellectual property on a product-by-product basis. Arbutus has also granted us a worldwide license to its LNP technology for the research, development and commercialization of LNP-based RNAi therapeutics, which license shall be exclusive for up to eight targets designated by us, and otherwise shall be non-exclusive. We have the right to sublicense on a product-by-product basis. 

In addition, we elected to buy out our manufacturing obligations to ABC with respect to our LNP-based pipeline programs. Pursuant to the terms of the 2012 cross-license agreement, we made a one-time payment of $30.0 million to ABC for the termination of, and our release from, all of our obligations under the manufacturing agreement, including without limitation the obligations to obtain materials and/or services from ABC. We also have the right to manufacture and have manufactured our LNP-based RNAi therapeutics, which right may be sublicensed to our collaborators. 

Further, as part of this restructuring, we elected to buy-down certain future potential milestone and royalty payments due to Arbutus for certain of our RNAi therapeutics, formulated using LNP technology. Specifically, pursuant to the cross-license agreement, we made a one-time payment of $35.0 million to ABC, which amount constituted payment for the termination of the 2008 license agreements with ABC and Protiva and the parties&#146; rights and obligations thereunder, as well as the buy-down of certain milestone payments and the significant reduction of royalty rates for ALN-VSP, ALN-PCS02 and patisiran. As a result of this buy-down, future royalty 

&#160; 

rates for these LNP-based products are now further reduced from the low single-digit royalties due on other products, as described below. In addition, we agreed to pay ABC an aggregate of $10.0 million in contingent milestone payments related to advancement of ALN-VSP and patisiran, which represent the only potential milestones due to Arbutus for ALN-VSP, ALN-PCS02 and patisiran. In December 2013, we paid to ABC $5.0 million in connection with the initiation of our Phase 3 clinical trial for patisiran, fulfilling one of these milestone obligations. With respect to the second $5.0 million milestone, in August 2013, we initiated binding arbitration proceedings to resolve a disagreement with ABC regarding the achievement by ABC of this milestone under our cross-license agreement relating to the manufacture of ALN-VSP clinical trial material for use in China. The Arbutus arbitration hearing was held in May 2015 and we now expect a decision from the arbitration panel during the first quarter of 2016. 

Consistent with the prior license agreements, under the 2012 cross-license agreement, we are obligated to pay ABC up to an aggregate of $16.0 million in milestone payments for any future RNAi therapeutic formulated using Arbutus LNP technology, excluding ALN-VSP, ALN-PCS02 and patisiran, together with low single-digit royalty payments on annual product sales, if any. 

Under the 2012 cross-license Agreement, Arbutus maintains the three exclusive and five non-exclusive licenses previously granted by us under the prior license agreements to research, develop and commercialize RNAi therapeutics directed to up to eight gene targets. In addition, we granted Arbutus a non-exclusive license for two additional gene targets, on the same terms and conditions as the prior non-exclusive licenses. Arbutus also acquired from Acuitas its existing options for three additional non-exclusive licenses, which were included under the 2012 cross-license agreement. Arbutus may sublicense these rights on a product-by-product basis. We waived our right under the prior license agreements to opt-in to the Arbutus research program directed to polo-like kinase 1, or PLK1. Under the 2012 cross-license agreement, we are eligible to receive from Arbutus up to an aggregate of $8.5 million in milestone payments for RNAi therapeutics directed to nine of the targets for which we have granted licenses to Arbutus, together with single-digit royalties on annual product sales, if any, of RNAi therapeutic products directed to all thirteen of the targets for which we have granted licenses to Arbutus. Due to the uncertainty of pharmaceutical development and the high historical failure rates generally associated with drug development, we may not receive any milestone or royalty payments from Arbutus. 

The term of the 2012 cross-license agreement generally ends upon the expiration of the last-to-expire royalty term. Royalties are payable on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis commencing on the first commercial sale of a product in a country and continuing during any period in which (a) in the case of us, a valid claim within the Arbutus Royalty-Bearing Patents (as defined in the 2012 cross-license agreement) covers our applicable product in such country of sale, or (b) in the case of Arbutus products, a valid claim within our patents covers the applicable Arbutus product in such country of sale. We estimate that our fundamental RNAi patents covered under the 2012 cross-license agreement will expire both in and outside the United States generally between 2019 and 2021, and that the Arbutus LNP patents covered under the 2012 cross-license agreement will expire both in and outside the United States generally between 2020 and 2030, subject in each case to any potential patent term extensions and/or supplemental protection certificates extending such term extensions in countries where such extensions may become available. Either party may terminate a license it granted to the other in the event that the other party fails to cure a material breach of its obligations relating to that license. Furthermore, either party may terminate the 2012 cross-license agreement in the event the other party fails to cure a material breach of an obligation under the agreement. In addition, either party may terminate the 2012 cross-license agreement upon patent-related challenges by the other party. 

UBC and Acuitas. In July 2009, we entered into a research agreement with UBC and Acuitas that was focused on the discovery of novel lipids, such as the MC3 lipid, which is employed in patisiran. Pursuant to the terms of the research agreement, we funded collaborative research through July 2012, which was conducted by our scientists, together with scientists at UBC and Acuitas. Under the research agreement, UBC and Acuitas are eligible to receive up to an aggregate of $1.3 million in milestone payments from us for each licensed product (as defined in the research agreement) directed to a particular target (as defined in the research agreement), together with single-digit royalty payments on annual product sales, if any. 

&#160; 

Concurrent with the execution of the research agreement, we also entered into a supplemental agreement with ABC, Protiva, UBC and Acuitas, which contains additional terms regarding the intellectual property rights arising out of the research agreement. In connection with 2012 cross-license agreement with Arbutus described above, we and Arbutus agreed to supersede the rights and obligations under the supplemental agreement as between ourselves, with the rights and obligations set forth in the 2012 cross-license agreement. 

microRNA Therapeutics 

Regulus. In September 2007, we and Ionis established Regulus, a company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of microRNA therapeutics. Regulus leverages our and Ionis&#146; technologies, know-how and intellectual property relating to microRNA therapeutics. 

In consideration for our and Ionis&#146; initial interests in Regulus, we and Ionis each granted Regulus exclusive licenses to our intellectual property for certain microRNA therapeutics as well as certain patents in the microRNA field. Regulus operates as an independent company with a separate board of directors, scientific advisory board and management team. In October 2012, Regulus completed an underwritten initial public offering. Currently, we own approximately 11% of Regulus&#146; outstanding common stock. 

Regulus is exploring therapeutic opportunities that arise from microRNA dysregulation. Since microRNAs are believed to regulate broad networks of genes and biological pathways, microRNA therapeutics define a new and potentially high-impact strategy to target multiple nodes on disease pathways. microRNAs are small non-coding RNAs that regulate the expression of other genes. More than 500 microRNAs have been identified to date in humans, each of which is believed to interact with a specific set of genes that control key aspects of cell biology. Since microRNAs may act as master regulators of the genome and are often found to be dysregulated in disease, microRNAs potentially represent an exciting new platform for drug discovery and development. Regulus is advancing microRNA therapeutics in several areas including oncology, fibrosis, hepatitis C virus and metabolic diseases. 

Regulus has entered into a number of strategic alliances with leading pharmaceutical companies, including Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca PLC. Each of Alnylam and Ionis is entitled to receive specified sublicense income in connection with certain collaborative agreements entered into by Regulus, as well as royalties on net sales, if any, of certain products developed by Regulus or its collaborators, in each case subject to the terms and conditions of the license and collaboration agreement among Regulus, Ionis and us. 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

We have devoted considerable effort and resources to establish what we believe to be a strong intellectual property position relevant to RNAi therapeutic products and delivery technologies. In this regard, we have amassed a portfolio of patents, patent applications and other intellectual property covering: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fundamental aspects of the structure and uses of siRNAs, including their use as therapeutics, and RNAi-related mechanisms; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; chemical modifications to siRNAs that improve their suitability for therapeutic and other uses; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; siRNAs directed to specific targets as treatments for particular diseases; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; delivery technologies, such as in the fields of carbohydrate conjugates and cationic liposomes; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; all aspects of our specific development candidates. 

We believe that no other company possesses a portfolio of such broad and exclusive rights to the patents and patent applications required for the commercialization of RNAi therapeutics. Our intellectual property estate for RNAi therapeutics includes over 2,000 active cases and over 1,100 granted or issued patents, of which over 400 are issued or granted in the United States, the EU, including by the European Patent Office, or EPO, and Japan. Given the importance of our intellectual property portfolio to our business operations, we intend to vigorously enforce our rights and defend against challenges that have arisen or may arise in this area. 

&#160; 

Intellectual Property Related to Fundamental Aspects and Uses of siRNA and RNAi-related Mechanisms 

In this category, we include United States and certain foreign patents and patent applications that claim key aspects of siRNA architecture and RNAi-related mechanisms. Specifically included are patents and patent applications covering targeted cleavage of mRNA directed by RNA-like oligonucleotides and double-stranded RNAs of particular lengths and particular structural features, such as blunt and/or overhanging ends, as well as various types and patterns of chemical modifications. Our strategy has been to secure exclusive rights where possible and appropriate to key patents and patent applications that we believe cover fundamental aspects of RNAi. 

The following table lists patents and/or patent applications to which we have secured rights that we regard as being fundamental for the use of siRNAs as therapeutics. 

&#160;

Patent 

Licensor/Owner 

&#160; Subject Matter 

&#160; First 

Priority Date 

&#160; Inventors 

&#160; Status 

&#160; Expiration Date* 

&#160; Alnylam Rights 

Ionis &#160; Inactivation of target mRNA &#160; 6/6/1996 (EP) and 6/6/1997 (U.S.) &#160; S. Crooke &#160; U.S. 5,898,031, U.S. 6,107,094, 

U.S. 7,432,250 &#38; U.S. 7,695,902 

&#160;

EP 0928290 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions 

&#160; 6/6/2016 &#160;

&#160;

6/6/2017 

&#160; Exclusive rights for therapeutic purposes related to siRNAs** Carnegie 

Institution of 

Washington 

&#160; Double-stranded RNAs to induce RNAi &#160; 12/23/1997 &#160; A. Fire, 

C. Mello 

&#160; U.S. 6,506,559, U.S. 7,560,438, U.S. 7,538,095, U.S. 7,622,633, U.S. 8,580,754, U.S. 8,283,329 &#38; U.S. 9,102,939 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions 

&#160; 12/18/2018 &#160; Non-exclusive rights for therapeutic purposes Medical 

College of 

Georgia Research 

Institute, Inc. 

&#160; Methods for inhibiting gene expression using double-stranded RNA &#160; 1/28/1999 &#160; Y. Li, 

M. Farrell, M. Kirby 

&#160; U.S. 7,888,325 &#38; U.S. 8,148,345 

&#160;

AU 776150 (Australia) 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S., Europe and Canada 

&#160; 1/28/2020 &#160; Exclusive rights Alnylam 

&#160; Small double-stranded RNAs as therapeutic products &#160; 1/30/1999 &#160; R. Kreutzer, S. Limmer &#160; U.S. 7,763,590, U.S. 7,829,697 &#38; U.S. 7,994,309 

&#160;

EP 1798285, EP 2363479, EP 1144623, EP 1214945 (revoked/under appeal), EP 1550719 (revoked/under appeal), CA 2359180 (Canada), AU 778474 (Australia), ZA 2001/5909 (South Africa), DE 20023125 U1, DE 10066235 &#38; DE 10080167 (Germany) 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions 

&#160; 1/29/2020 &#160; Owned Alnylam 

&#160; Medicament for inhibiting the expression of a target gene and medicament for treating a tumor disease &#160; 1/9/2001 &#160; R. Kreutzer, 

S. Limmer, 

H-P.Vornlocher, 

P. Hadwiger, 

A. Geick, 

M. Ocker, 

C. Herold, 

D. Schuppan 

&#160; U.S. 7,868,160, U.S. 8,143,390 

&#160;

EP 1799270 &#38; EP 1349927 (opposed and maintained in amended form) 

&#160; 1/9/2022 &#160; Owned Alnylam 

&#160; Method for inhibiting the expression of a wide variety of oncology target genes with double-stranded RNA between 15-49 nucleotides &#160; 1/9/2001 &#160; R. Kreutzer, 

S. Limmer, 

P. Hadwiger 

&#160; U.S. 8,273,870, U.S. 8,546,143 &#38; U.S. 9,074,213 

&#160;

EP 1352061 (opposed, maintained with no further right to appeal) 

&#160; 1/9/2022 &#160; Owned &#160; 

Patent 

Licensor/Owner 

&#160; Subject Matter 

&#160; First 

Priority Date 

&#160; Inventors 

&#160; Status 

&#160; Expiration Date* 

&#160; Alnylam Rights 

Alnylam 

&#160; Composition and methods for inhibiting a target nucleic acid with double-stranded RNA &#160; 4/21/1999 &#160; C. Pachuk, C. Satishchandran &#160; EP 1171586, AU 781598 (Australia) 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions 

&#160; 4/19/2020 &#160; Owned Cancer Research 

Technology Limited 

&#160; RNAi uses in mammalian oocytes, preimplantation embryos and somatic cells &#160; 11/19/1999 &#160; M. Zernicka- Goetz, 

F. Wianny, 

M.J. Evans, D.M. Glover 

&#160; EP 1230375 (revoked/under appeal), SG 89569 (Singapore), AU 774285 (Australia) 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions 

&#160; 11/17/2020 &#160; Exclusive rights for therapeutic purposes Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 

Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Max Planck 

Gesellschaft, 

University of Massachusetts *** 

&#160; Mediation of RNAi by small RNAs 21-23 base pairs long with claims directed to compositions, methods of use and manufacture &#160; 3/30/2000 &#160; D.P. Bartel, P.A. Sharp, T. Tuschl, P.D. Zamore &#160; U.S. 8,790,922, U.S. 8,742,092, U.S. 8,632,997, U.S. 8,552,171, U.S. 8,420,391, 

U.S. 8,394,628, U.S. 8,957,157, U.S. 9,012,138, U.S. 9,012,621 &#38; U.S. 9,193,753 

&#160;

EP 1309726 (opposed and maintained in amended form/under appeal), EP 2028278 (opposed), EP 2345742, EP 2360253 (opposed) &#38; EP 2361981 (opposed), 

AU 2001249622 (Australia), NZ 522045 (New Zealand), KR 08724437 &#38; KR 10-0909681 (Korea) 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions 

&#160; 3/30/2021 &#160; Exclusive rights for therapeutic purposes*** Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Whitehead Institute, University of Massachusetts, 

Max Planck 

Gesellschaft (U.S.)**** 

&#160;

Max Planck 

Gesellschaft (ex-U.S.), 

European Molecular Biology Laboratory (ex-U.S.)***** 

&#160; Synthetic and chemically modified siRNAs as therapeutic products including patents with claims including those directed to double-stranded RNA of between 19 to 23 or 19 to 25 nucleotides, with and without a 3&#146; overhang; claims directed to double-stranded RNA of between 19 to 52 nucleotides with a 3&#146; overhang; claims directed to double-stranded RNA of 14 to 24 base pairs or up to 25 base pairs with at least one nucleotide analogue, along with methods of using and making such double-stranded RNA &#160; 12/1/2000 (EP), 4/24/2004 and 4/27/2004 &#160; T. Tuschl, S. Elbashir, W. Lendeckel, 

M. Wilm#, 

R. L&#252;hrmann# 

&#160;

# EMBL inventors 

&#160; U.S. 7,056,704, U.S. 7,078,196, U.S. 8,329,463, U.S. 8,372,968, U.S. 8,362,231, U.S. 8,445,237, U.S. 8,765,930, U.S. 8,778,902, U.S. 8,796,016, U.S. 8,853,384, U.S. 8,895,721, U.S. 8,933,044, U.S. 8,895,718 &#38; U.S. 8,993,745 

&#160;

EP 1407044 (opposed and maintained in amended form/under appeal), EP 1873259, EP 2348133, EP 2348134 &#38; EP 2351852 (opposed), AU 2002235744 (Australia), ZA 2003/3929 (South Africa), SG 96891 (Singapore), NZ 52588 (New Zealand), JP 4 095 895 (opposed and maintained), JP 4 494 392 (Japan), RU 2322500 (Russia), CN 1568373 (China) 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions 

&#160; 11/29/2021 &#160; Exclusive rights for therapeutic purposes**** Alnylam &#160; Methods for inhibiting a target nucleic acid via the introduction of a vector encoding a double-stranded RNA &#160; 1/31/2001 &#160; T. Giordano, C. Pachuk, C. Satishchandran &#160; U.S. 9,051,566 

&#160;

AU 785395 (Australia) 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S., Australia and Canada 

&#160; 1/31/2021 &#160; Owned &#160; 

Patent 

Licensor/Owner 

&#160; Subject Matter 

&#160; First 

Priority Date 

&#160; Inventors 

&#160; Status 

&#160; Expiration Date* 

&#160; Alnylam Rights 

Stanford University &#160; RNAi uses in vivo in mammalian liver &#160; 7/23/2001 &#160; M.A. Kay, A.P. McCaffrey &#160; U.S. 9,018,179 

&#160;

EP 1409506, AU 2002326410 (Australia) 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions 

&#160; 7/23/2021 &#160; Exclusive rights for therapeutic purposes Alnylam &#160; Claims directed to carbohydrate conjugates linked to siRNA &#160; 4/17/2003 &#160; M. Manoharan &#160; U.S. 7,723,509, U.S. 7,745,608, U.S. 7,851,615, U.S. 8,017,762, U.S. 8,507,661, U.S. 8,344,125, U.S. 8,796,436, U.S. 8,865,677 &#38; U.S. 8,426,377 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions 

&#160; 9/21/2024 &#160; Owned Alnylam &#160; Claims directed to GalNAc-conjugated siRNA &#160; 12/13/2007 &#160; M. Manoharan &#160; U.S. 8,106,022, U.S. 8,450,467 &#38; U.S. 8,828,956 

&#160;

Additional applications pending in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions 

&#160; 2029 &#160; Owned Sirna****** &#160; Claims directed to highly chemically modified oligonucleotides with granted claims directed to double-stranded RNA of between 18 and 24 nucleotides with various combinations of chemical modifications &#160; 2/20/2002 &#160; J. McSwiggen &#160; U.S. 7,923,547, U.S. 7,956,176, U.S. 7,989,612, U.S. 8,232,383, U.S. 8,268,986, U.S. 8,236,944, U.S. 8,272,979, U.S. 8,273,866, U.S. 8,242,257, U.S. 8,618,277, U.S. 8,846,894, U.S. 8,648,185 &#38; U.S. 9,181,551 

&#160;

EP 1423406 (opposed and maintained), EP 2287306 (opposed), EP 2278004 (opposed, opposition withdrawn), EP 1627061 &#38; EP 1458741 (opposed, opposition withdrawn), 

AU 2003216324, AU 2006203725, CA 2526831 (Canada), JP 49481631 

&#160;

Additional cases pending in the US and Europe 

&#160; 2/20/2023- 2028 &#160; Owned &#160;

* For applications filed after June 7, 1995, the patent term generally is 20 years from the earliest application filing date. However, under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Extension Act of 1984, known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions for our U.S. patents. We cannot predict whether or not any patent term extensions will be granted or the length of any patent term extension that might be granted. &#160;

** We hold co-exclusive therapeutic rights with Ionis. However, Ionis has agreed not to license such rights to any third party, except in the context of a collaboration in which Ionis plays an active role. &#160;

*** We hold exclusive rights to the interest owned by three co-owners. The University of Massachusetts, or UMass, licensed its interest separately to Sirna. In March 2014, we acquired Sirna from Merck, thus we now hold exclusive rights. &#160;

**** We hold exclusive rights to the interest owned by all co-owners in the U.S. UMass had a right to sublicense the U.S. Tuschl II patent family to Merck but such right has been disclaimed by UMass. &#160;

***** European Molecular Biology Laboratory, or EMBL, has a limited ownership interest in certain ex-US cases in this family with no rights to control or otherwise affect patent prosecution. &#160;

****** Sirna is our wholly-owned subsidiary. We believe that we have a strong portfolio of broad rights to fundamental RNAi patents and patent applications. Many of these rights are exclusive, which we believe prevents potential competitors from commercializing products in the field of RNAi without taking a license from us. In securing these rights, we have focused on obtaining the strongest rights for those intellectual property assets we believe will be most important in providing competitive advantage with respect to RNAi therapeutic products. 

We believe that the Crooke patent series, issued in several countries around the world, covers the use of modified oligonucleotides to achieve enzyme-mediated cleavage of a target mRNA. We have obtained rights to 

&#160; 

the Crooke patents for use with double-stranded RNA products, through a license agreement with Ionis. Under the terms of our agreement, Ionis agreed not to grant licenses under these patents to any other organization for double-stranded RNA products designed to work through an RNAi mechanism, except in the context of a collaboration in which Ionis plays an active role. Our agreement with Ionis was amended and restated in January 2015 to, among other things, extend the license for an additional five years, through April 2019. 

Through our acquisition of Ribopharma AG, now known as Alnylam Europe, we own the entire Kreutzer-Limmer patent portfolio, which includes pending applications in the United States and many countries worldwide. 

The Glover patent series has resulted in several patent grants, including in Europe (EP 1230375). We have an exclusive license to the Glover patent for therapeutic uses from CRT. 

The Tuschl patent applications owned by Whitehead, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, or MIT, UMass and Max Planck Gesellschaft zur Foerderung der Wissenschaften e.V. on the invention by Dr. Tuschl and his colleagues, which we call the Tuschl I patent series, cover compositions and methods important for RNAi discovery. We are the exclusive licensee of the Tuschl I patent series for RNAi therapeutics. The Tuschl patent applications owned by Max Planck Gesellschaft zur Foerderung der Wissenschaften e.V., Whitehead, MIT and UMass on the invention by Dr. Tuschl and his colleagues, which we call the Tuschl II patent series, cover what we believe are key structural features of siRNAs. Specifically, the Tuschl II patents and patent applications include claims directed to synthetic siRNAs and the use of chemical modifications to stabilize siRNAs. We have obtained an exclusive license to claims in the Tuschl II patent series uniquely covering the use of RNAi for therapeutic purposes. Collectively, the Tuschl I and II patent families cover a wide range of double-stranded RNA molecules including those unmodified and those comprising chemical modifications. Examples of those chemical modifications encompassed by the Tuschl claims include those modifications made in the ribose ring, e.g., at the 2&#146; position such as 2&#146;-OMe, 2&#146;-F or modifications such as those found in locked and unlocked (acyclic) nucleotides. 

The Fire and Mello patent owned by the Carnegie Institution covers the use of double-stranded RNAs to induce RNAi. The Carnegie Institution has made this patent broadly available for licensing and we, like many companies, have taken a non-exclusive license to the patent for therapeutic purposes. We believe, however, that the claims of the Fire and Mello patent do not cover the structural features of double-stranded RNAs that are important for the biological activity of siRNAs in mammalian cells. We believe that these specific features are the subjects of the Crooke, Kreutzer-Limmer, Glover and Tuschl II patents and patent applications for which we have secured exclusive rights. 

The other pending patent applications listed in the table above either provide further coverage for structural features of siRNAs or relate to the use of siRNAs in mammalian cells. For some of these, we have exclusive rights, and for others, we have non-exclusive rights. In addition, in December 2008, we acquired the intellectual property assets of Nucleonics, Inc., a privately held biotechnology company. This acquisition included over 100 active patent filings, including 15 patents that have been granted worldwide, of which five have been granted in the United States and Europe. With this acquisition, we obtained patents and patent applications with early priority dates, notably the &#147;Li &#38; Kirby,&#148; &#147;Pachuk I&#148; and &#147;Giordano&#148; patent families, that cover broad structural features of RNAi therapeutics, thus extending the breadth of our fundamental intellectual property. 

Intellectual Property Related to Chemical Modifications 

Our amended and restated collaboration and license agreement with Ionis provided us with rights to practice the inventions covered by over 200 issued patents worldwide, as well as rights based on future chemistry patent applications through April 2014 for use with double-stranded RNA products. In January 2015, we entered into a second amended and restated agreement with Ionis to extend our rights to future chemistry applications through April 2019. These patents will expire both in and outside the United States generally between 2015 and 2035, subject to any potential patent term extensions and/or supplemental protection certificates extending such term extensions in countries where such extensions may become available. These inventions cover chemical modifications we may wish to incorporate into double-stranded RNA therapeutic products designed to work 

&#160; 

through an RNAi mechanism. Under the terms of our agreement, Ionis agreed not to grant licenses under these patents to any other organization for double-stranded RNA products designed to work through an RNAi mechanism, except in the context of a collaboration in which Ionis plays an active role. 

In addition to licensing these intellectual property rights from Ionis, we are also working to develop our own proprietary chemical modifications that may be incorporated into siRNAs to endow them with drug-like properties. We have filed a large number of patent applications relating to these novel and proprietary chemical modifications. 

With the combination of the technology we have licensed from Ionis, various patents in the Tuschl II patent series and our own patent application filings, we possess issued claims that cover methods of making siRNAs that incorporate any of various chemical modifications, including the use of phosphorothioates, 2&#146;-O-methyl and/or 2&#146;-fluoro modifications and modifications such as those found in locked and unlocked (acyclic) nucleotides. These modifications are believed to be important for achieving &#147;drug-like&#148; properties for RNAi therapeutics. We hold exclusive worldwide rights to these claims for RNAi therapeutics. 

In addition to the above, in March 2014, we acquired the RNAi assets from Merck, which included intellectual property developed at Sirna and Merck. The acquired patent portfolio includes the &#147;McSwiggen&#148; patent families with issued and pending claims covering highly chemically modified oligonucleotide compositions, both single- and double-stranded and independent of 5&#146; and 3&#146; architecture. A total of thirteen patents have granted in the United States with claims directed to various combinations of chemical modifications to double-stranded RNA of between 18 and 24 nucleotides. Notably, U.S. 8,273,866 was granted in September 2012 with significant patent term adjustment extending the expiration of this patent to mid-2028. EP423406 was granted in September 2010 with claims directed to double-stranded RNA of between 18 and 24 nucleotides with ten or more chemical modifications on the pyrimidine residues of the sense and/or antisense strand. As indicated in the chart above, four additional EP patents have granted with claims to various combinations of chemically modified compositions comprising double-stranded RNA of between 18 and 24 nucleotides and methods of making and using such combinations. In November 2015, U.S. 9,181,551 granted with claims directed to highly modified double-stranded RNA molecules comprising a ligand, with dependent claims wherein the ligand is chosen from a ligand for a cellular receptor, a protein localization sequence, an antibody, a nucleic acid aptamer, a vitamin, a co-factor, a phospholipid, a cholesterol, a polyamine, a galactose, a galactosamine, a folate, an N-acetyl-galactosamine (wherein the N-acetylgalactosamine is a mono-antennary, bi-antennary or a tri-antennary galactosamine). Additional dependent claims are directed to highly modified double-stranded RNA with modified nucleotides, including but not limited to unlocked (acyclic) and locked nucleotides. 

Intellectual Property Related to the Delivery of siRNAs to Cells 

We also pursue internal research and collaborative approaches regarding the delivery of siRNAs to mammalian cells. These approaches include exploring technology that may allow delivery of siRNAs to cells through the use of cholesterol and carbohydrate conjugation, cationic lipids, peptide and antibody-based targeting, and polymer conjugations. Our collaborative efforts have included working with academic and corporate third parties to examine specific embodiments of these various approaches to delivery of siRNAs to appropriate cell tissue, and in-licensing and/or acquiring the most promising technology. 

In September 2014, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, granted U.S. Patent No. 8,828,956 with claims directed to compositions including those comprising a modified RNA agent linked to a biantennary or triantennary ligand. Specifically, the granted patent includes claims that broadly cover single-stranded or double-stranded, chemically modified RNA therapeutics conjugated with a GalNAc ligand independent of length, sequence or disease target. 

As part of the Sirna acquisition, we obtained several patent families directed to various conjugate technologies including &#147;tetra-GalNAc&#148; compositions and methods. The tetra-GalNAc cases are pending worldwide and will expire May 1, 2033. Also included were patent families directed to novel lipid compositions and formulations that are pending worldwide and set to expire May 31, 2031. 

&#160; 

In addition to the Sirna delivery technology, we have a license from UBC and Arbutus in the field of RNAi therapeutics to intellectual property covering cationic liposomes and their use to deliver nucleic acid to cells. The issued United States patents and foreign counterparts, including the Semple (U.S. Patent No 6,858,225) and Wheeler (U.S. Patent No. 6,815,432) patents, cover compositions, methods of making and methods of using cationic liposomes to deliver agents, such as nucleic acid molecules, to cells. These patents expire both in and outside the United States on October 30, 2017 and June 7, 2015, respectively, subject to any potential patent term extensions and/or supplemental protection certificates extending such term extensions in countries where such extensions may become available. 

In addition, in April 2012, the USPTO granted U.S. Patent No. 8,158,601, covering composition of matter and formulations of the MC3 lipid, as well as methods of using these compositions and formulations. MC3 is being utilized in our patisiran development program. We assigned this patent, amongst other patents and patent applications relating to lipids and LNP technology, to Arbutus in connection with our November 2012 restructuring and cross-license agreement. We retain rights to use this intellectual property for the research, development and commercialization of RNAi therapeutic products, including the rights to sublicense this intellectual property on a product-by-product basis. A description of our 2012 restructuring and cross-license agreement with Arbutus is set forth above under &#147;Strategic Alliances &#151; Delivery-Related Licenses and Collaborations &#151; Arbutus.&#148; 

Intellectual Property Related to siRNAs Directed to Specific Targets 

We have filed a number of patent applications claiming specific siRNAs directed to various gene targets that correlate to specific diseases. While there may be a significant number of competing applications filed by other organizations claiming siRNAs to treat the same gene target, we were among the first companies to focus and file on RNAi therapeutics, and thus, we believe that a number of our patent applications may predate competing applications that others may have filed. Reflecting this, in August 2005, the EPO granted a broad patent, which we call the Kreutzer-Limmer II patent, with 103 allowed claims on therapeutic compositions, methods and uses comprising siRNAs that are complementary to mRNA sequences in over 125 disease target genes. In July 2009, the EPO ruled in our favor in an opposition proceeding related to the Kreutzer-Limmer II patent. The decision had been appealed by Sirna and was subsequently withdrawn upon our acquisition of Sirna. No further appeal before the EPO is available. The Kreutzer-Limmer II patent will expire on January 9, 2022, subject to any potential patent term extensions and/or supplemental protection certificates extending such term extensions in countries where such extensions may become available. Some of these claimed gene targets are being pursued by our development and pre-clinical programs, such as those expressed by viral pathogens including RSV and influenza virus. In addition, the claimed targets include oncogenes, cytokines, cell adhesion receptors, angiogenesis targets, apoptosis and cell cycle targets, and additional viral disease targets, such as hepatitis C virus and HIV. The Kreutzer-Limmer II patent series is pending in the United States and many foreign countries. Granted U.S. patent 8,618,277 obtained in the Sirna acquisition and set to expire February 20, 2023, contains claims directed to a highly chemically modified double-stranded siRNA of between 18-24 nucleotides specifically targeting the hepatitis B virus in a sequence independent manner. Moreover, a patent in the Tuschl II patent series, U.S. Patent No. 7,078,196, claims methods of preparing siRNAs that mediate cleavage of an mRNA in mammalian cells and, therefore, covers methods of making siRNAs directed toward any and all target genes. We hold exclusive worldwide rights to these claims for RNAi therapeutics. 

Intellectual Property Related to Our Development Candidates 

As our development pipeline matures, we have made and plan to continue to make patent filings that claim all aspects of our development candidates, including dose, method of administration and manufacture. 

Intellectual Property Challenges 

As the field of RNAi therapeutics is maturing, patent applications are being fully processed by national patent offices around the world. There is uncertainty about which patents will issue, and, if they do, as to when, to whom and with what claims. It is likely that there will be significant litigation and other proceedings, such as 

&#160; 

interference, reexamination, inter partes review, post grant review and opposition proceedings, in various patent offices relating to patent rights in the RNAi field. On September 16, 2012, the America Invents Act went into effect and provided for expanded patent challenge, i.e., inter partes review and post-grant review. These provide additional opportunities for third parties to challenge our patents. For example, as noted in the table above, various third parties have initiated oppositions to patents in our Kreutzer-Limmer and Tuschl II series in the EPO, as well as in other jurisdictions. We expect that additional oppositions will be filed in the EPO and elsewhere, and other challenges will be raised relating to other patents and patent applications in our portfolio. In many cases, the possibility of appeal exists for either us or our opponents, and it may be years before final, unappealable rulings are made with respect to these patents in certain jurisdictions. Given the importance of our intellectual property portfolio to our business operations, we intend to vigorously enforce our rights and defend against challenges that have arisen or may arise in this area. A description of ongoing legal matters relating to certain aspects of our intellectual property portfolio is set forth in Part I, Item 3, &#147;Legal Proceedings,&#148; of this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Competition 

The pharmaceutical marketplace is extremely competitive, with hundreds of companies competing to discover, develop and market new drugs. We face a broad spectrum of current and potential competitors, ranging from very large, global pharmaceutical companies with significant resources, to other biotechnology companies with resources and expertise comparable to our own, to smaller biotechnology companies with fewer resources and expertise than we have. We believe that for most or all of our drug development programs, there will be one or more competing programs under development at other companies. In many cases, the companies with competing programs will have access to greater resources and expertise than we do and may be more advanced in those programs. 

Competition for Our Business in General 

The competition we face can be grouped into three broad categories: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; other companies working to develop RNAi and microRNA therapeutic products; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; companies developing technology known as antisense, which, like RNAi, attempts to silence the activity of specific genes by targeting the mRNAs copied from them; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; marketed products and development programs for therapeutics that treat the same diseases for which we may also be developing treatments. 

We are aware of several other companies that are working to develop RNAi therapeutic products. Some of these companies are seeking, as we are, to develop chemically synthesized siRNAs as drugs. Others are following a gene therapy approach, with the goal of treating patients not with synthetic siRNAs but with synthetic, exogenously-introduced genes designed to produce siRNA-like molecules within cells. 

Companies working on chemically synthesized siRNAs include Takeda, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, Marina Biotech, Inc., Arrowhead and its subsidiary, Calando Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Calando, Quark Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Quark, Silence Therapeutics plc, Arbutus, Sylentis, S.A.U., or Sylentis, Dicerna Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Dicerna, Wave Life Sciences and Arcturus Therapeutics. Many of these companies have licensed our intellectual property. Benitec Ltd., or Benitec, is working on gene therapy approaches to RNAi therapeutics. Companies working on microRNA therapeutics include Regulus, Rosetta Genomics, Roche, through its acquisition in 2014 of Santaris Pharma A/S, miRagen Therapeutics, Inc., Mirna Therapeutics, Inc. and Asuragen, Inc. 

Antisense technology uses short, single-stranded, DNA-like molecules to block mRNAs encoding specific proteins. While we believe that RNAi drugs may potentially have significant advantages over antisense oligonucleotides, or ASOs, including greater potency and specificity, others are developing ASO drugs that are currently at a more advanced stage of development than RNAi drugs. For example, Ionis has developed the ASO drugs, fomivirsen, which was approved by the FDA in 1998 for the treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis, but is no longer available in the United States, and mipomersen, which was approved by the FDA for the treatment of 

&#160; 

patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, or HoFH. In addition, a number of other companies have ASO-based product candidates in various stages of pre-clinical and clinical development, including Roche, Celgene, Antisense Therapeutics, Ltd., Wave Life Sciences and Sarepta Therapeutics, Inc. Because of their later stage of development, ASOs, rather than siRNAs, may become the preferred technology for drugs that target mRNAs in order to turn off the activity of specific genes. 

The competitive landscape continues to expand and we expect that additional companies will initiate programs focused on the development of RNAi therapeutic products using the approaches described above as well as potentially new approaches that may result in the more rapid development of RNAi therapeutics or more effective technologies for RNAi drug development or delivery. 

Competing Drugs for Our Investigational RNAi Therapeutics in Clinical Development 

TTR-Mediated Amyloidosis (ATTR Amyloidosis). Until recently, organ transplantation was the only approved treatment option for patients with ATTR amyloidosis. Liver or combined heart/liver transplantations were the only available treatment options for FAP. Only a subset of FAP patients with early stage disease qualify for this costly and invasive procedure and, even following liver transplantation, the disease continues to progress for many patients, presumably due to wild-type TTR being deposited into preexisting fibrils. Moreover, there is a shortage of donors to provide healthy livers for transplantation. In November 2011, Pfizer received marketing approval from the EC for tafamidis for the treatment of transthyretin amyloidosis in adult patients with stage 1 symptomatic polyneuropathy to delay peripheral neurologic impairment. In June 2012, Pfizer received a complete response letter from the FDA requesting the completion of a second efficacy study to establish substantial evidence for effectiveness prior to approval. In September 2013, tafamidis was approved in Japan for the delay of peripheral neurologic impairment in patients with TTR familial amyloid polyneuropathy, and has been approved in other countries as well, including Mexico and Argentina. Tafamidis is intended to stabilize wild-type and variant TTR, to prevent dissociation of the TTR protein and thereby inhibit the formation of TTR oligomers and amyloid fibrils. 

The only currently available treatments for FAC are aimed at relief of symptoms, such as diuretics, or water pills, to treat the swelling of the ankles, one of the symptoms of FAC. For patients with advanced cardiomyopathy (FAC and SSA), heart transplant is a therapeutic option. Again, the scarcity of organs for transplantation, and the mortality, morbidity and cost associated with this procedure render it a realistic option for only a very small number of patients. In December 2013, Pfizer initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial of tafamidis in patients with ATTR amyloidosis with cardiomyopathy. The study completed enrollment with 400 patients in 2015 and is evaluating two dose levels, with a 30-month treatment duration for each patient. 

Several drugs are in clinical development for the treatment of ATTR amyloidosis. Researchers at Boston University, in collaboration with the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, conducted a Phase 2/3 clinical trial for diflunisal for the treatment of FAP. Diflunisal is a commercially available non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that has been found to stabilize TTR in vitro . This clinical trial concluded that the use of diflunisal compared with placebo for two years reduced the rate of progression of neurological impairment and preserved quality of life. As published, the discontinuation rate was high in this clinical trial in both treatment arms (approximately 50% overall) and the majority of patients continued to deteriorate, including patients on diflunisal. Furthermore, the safety profile of this drug and its known adverse effects, particularly on the kidney and heart, could likely limit the potential use of it in this disease. 

In addition, Ionis, together with its partner GlaxoSmithKline, is developing IONIS-TTR Rx , an ASO designed to treat all forms of ATTR amyloidosis, FAP, FAC, and wild-type TTR amyloidosis. IONIS-TTR Rx is currently administered as a single, subcutaneous injection, once-weekly for all indications. Ionis has completed enrollment in a Phase 3 clinical trial of IONIS-TTR Rx in FAP and has announced an investigator-sponsored Phase 2 trial of IONIS-TTR Rx in FAC patients. Ionis has announced that IONIS-TTR Rx was granted orphan drug designation with fast track status by the FDA for the treatment of patients with FAP and orphan drug designation by the COMP of the EMA for the treatment of patients with ATTR amyloidosis. 

&#160; 

Finally, SOM Biotech is developing a small molecule repurposed generic drug, SOM0226, for the treatment of ATTR amyloidosis. SOM0226 has completed a Phase 1/2 trial in ATTR amyloidosis patients and healthy volunteers. 

Hemophilia. The global market for treatments of hemophilia and bleeding disorders is valued at more than $9.0 billion. Products on the market include: Factor VIII replacement products marketed by Baxalta Incorporated, Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer, CSL Behring, Biogen Idec and others; Factor IX replacement products marketed by Pfizer, Baxalta, Biogen Idec, CSL Behring and others; a Factor VIIa replacement product marketed by Novo Nordisk; activated prothrombin complex concentrate marketed by Baxalta; and concentrated products for fibrinogen, FII, FX and FXI deficiencies. 

A number of products are currently in development for the treatment of hemophilia. Many manufacturers are developing extended half-life factor therapies, some of which have been approved and others which will be on the market in the near future. These products may extend the time between intravenous doses, providing a more convenient treatment to people with hemophilia. 

A particular segment of people with hemophilia develop neutralizing antibodies, referred to as inhibitors, to replacement factors. Generally speaking, these individuals are not able to be managed with standard replacement factor therapy and must be treated with recombinant Factor VIIa, or FEIBA, to control bleeds. FEIBA is an activated prothrombin complex concentrate marketed by Baxalta. It is approved for both routine prophylaxis and acute treatment of bleeds in people with hemophilia in both the United States and the EU. 

Molecules currently in development may offer new treatments for people with HA and HB, with and without inhibitors. Roche is developing a bi-specific antibody (emicizumab or ACE910) which binds to factors IXa and X and mimics the Factor VIII cofactor function in people with HA. This product has completed a Phase 1 clinical trial and has been shown to reduce the incidence of bleeding events in people with hemophilia with and without inhibitors. Roche initiated a Phase 3 study of emicizumab in people with HA with inhibitors in late 2015 and plans to initiate a Phase 3 study of emicizumab in people with HA without inhibitors by the end of 2016. Novo Nordisk is developing concizumab, a monoclonal antibody against a tissue factor pathway inhibitor, or TFPI, for the treatment of HA and HB, currently in Phase 1 clinical trials. Bayer is developing BAY-1093884, a monoclonal antibody against TFPI. BAY-1093884 began a Phase 1 clinical trial in October 2015. Baxalta also has a pre-clinical development program which targets tissue factor pathway inhibitors. 

A number of companies are actively developing gene therapy products which use a virus to deliver a functional segment of a particular gene into the cells of the person with hemophilia. In 2013, BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. licensed technology from University College London and St. Jude Children&#146;s Research Hospital to develop gene therapy products for the treatment of HA. In 2014, Baxter acquired Chatham Therapeutics, which was developing a gene therapy product, BAX355, for the treatment of HB. BAX355 is currently in Phase 1/2 clinical trials. In 2014, Bayer partnered with Dimension Therapeutics to develop a gene therapy product for the treatment of HA. Dimension is also developing a gene therapy product, DTX101, for the treatment of HB. In January 2016, Dimension initiated a Phase 1/2 clinical trial with DTX101. In addition, UniQure is developing AMT060, a gene therapy product for the treatment HB. In March 2015, UniQure began a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of AMT-060. 

Complement-Mediated Diseases. The global market for drugs that specifically target complement-mediated diseases is significant. The only product in this market is eculizumab, a monoclonal antibody developed by Alexion Pharmaceuticals that inhibits the cleavage of the protein complement component 5 (C5) into its components C5a and C5b. In 2007, eculizumab was approved by the FDA and the EC to treat PNH. In 2011, eculizumab was approved by the FDA and EC to treat aHUS, a systemic disease cause by chronic uncontrolled activation of the complement system. Eculizumab is also currently being studied in a number of other diseases that are believed to be complement-mediated including: neuromyelitis optica, myasthenia gravis, antibody-mediated rejection and delayed graft function. 

A number of products are in development for the treatment of complement-mediated diseases. Alexion has disclosed the development of a number of pipeline programs to treat complement-mediated diseases. In 2015, Alexion began a Phase 1 trial for ALXN 1210, a monoclonal antibody targeting C5 which is designed to have an 

&#160; 

extended half-life. Alexion has also initiated an open-label Phase 2 study of ALXN 1210 in PNH patients. Swedish Orphan Biovitrium, or SOBI, is developing SOBI002, an antibody to inhibit C5. In 2014, the Phase 1 trial for SOBI002 was placed on hold when adverse effects were observed in the study. SOBI has disclosed the development of a follow-on program which is expected to begin human clinical trials in 2018. Shire is conducting Phase 1 trials of a plasma-derived C1 esterase inhibitor for the treatment of PNH and acute neuromyelitis optica that is currently approved for the prevention of hereditary angioedema attacks. Apellis Pharmaceuticals is developing APL-2, a subcutaneously administered analogue of compstatin which inhibits complement component 3, or C3. A Phase 1 trial for APL-2 began in October 2014 and is ongoing. Akari Therapeutics PLC is developing coversin, a complement C5 inhibitor, for the treatment of PNH. Coversin began a Phase 2 study in September of 2015. Ra Pharma is developing RA101495, a cyclic peptide inhibitor of complement C5. RA101495 began a Phase 1 study in December of 2015. True North Therapeutics is developing TNT-009, a complement C1s inhibitor for a variety of complement-mediated diseases, including cold agglutinin disease and warm autoimmune hemolytic anemia. TNT-009 began a Phase 1 clinical trial in July 2015. Achillion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing ACH-4471, a small molecule inhibitor of complement factor D for the treatment of PNH and other ultra-rare diseases, that is expected to begin Phase 1 clinical trials in 2016. Amyndas Pharmaceuticals is developing AMY-101, a peptidic C3 inhibitor for the treatment of PNH and ABOi kidney transplant rejection. Phase 1 clinical trials are expected to begin in 2016. 

Acute Hepatic Porphyrias. The global market for AHP is made up of intravenous hemin in the United States and intravenous heme arginate in the EC. Both products are currently manufactured by Recordati S.p.A. These human-derived blood products have been shown to reduce the duration of porphyria attacks. 

In addition to heme, the AIPGENE consortium, a European collaboration which included industry sponsors UniQure and Digna Biotech, is developing AMT-021, a gene therapy product for the treatment of AIP. In 2014, the consortium released one-year follow-up data on the AMT-021 which confirmed the safety and the successful transduction of the virus. In 2015, data reported from this study showed good tolerability following dosing with AAV-PBGD but no ALA/PBG lowering in the Phase 1 study in eight patients. All patients enrolled developed antibodies to the vector that prevented them from re-dosing at higher dose levels. Additionally, the AIPGENE consortium has reported pre-clinical work on the development of next generation vectors. 

Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency. Though a number of products have been developed and commercialized for the treatment of lung disease associated with AAT deficiency, there are currently no marketed treatments for AAT deficiency-associated liver disease outside of supportive care and liver transplant. 

Several products, including products using RNAi, are in development for the treatment of AAT deficiency-associated liver disease. Arrowhead is currently conducting a Phase 1 trial of ARC-AAT, an siRNA designed to reduce the production of AAT in the liver. In addition, the University of Pittsburgh is evaluating the efficacy and safety of the approved anticonvulsant carbamazepine as a treatment for AAT deficiency-associated liver disease in a Phase 2 trial. 

Hypercholesterolemia. The current standard of care for patients with hypercholesterolemia includes the use of several agents. Front line therapy consists of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, commonly known as statins, which block production of cholesterol by the liver and increase clearance of LDL-C from the bloodstream. These include atorvastatin, simvastatin, rosuvastatin and pravastatin. A different class of compounds, which includes ezetimibe and ezetimibe/simvastatin, function by blocking cholesterol uptake from the diet and are utilized on their own or in combination with statins. Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is marketing lomitapide, an microsomal triglyceride protein, or MTP, inhibitor for the treatment of dyslipidemia, in the United States and the EU for use in patients with HoFH. 

In addition, mipomersen, a lipid-lowering weekly-injectable drug targeting apolipoprotein B-100, was developed by Ionis in collaboration with Sanofi Genzyme. In July 2011, Sanofi Genzyme submitted an MAA for mipomersen in Europe. In December 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, recommended against approval of the drug in Europe for familial hypercholesterolemia. In January 2013, the FDA approved mipomersen for the treatment of patients with HoFH. In January 2016, Ionis disclosed that it had terminated its collaboration with Sanofi Genzyme. 

&#160; 

In 2015, two anti-PCSK9 antibodies were approved for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia in the United States and Europe, alirocumab, developed by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., in collaboration with Sanofi, and evolocumab, developed by Amgen Inc. 

We are also aware of ongoing programs at Pfizer and other companies to develop anti-PCSK9 molecules, and we are aware of several additional similar compounds in advanced pre-clinical development. 

In addition, Esperion Therapeutics is developing bempedoic acid (ETC-1002), a small molecule drug which is both an ATP citrate lyase inhibitor and an activator of AMP kinase. In a Phase 2 trial in patients with hypercholesterolemia with or without statin intolerance, patients taking ETC-1002 had a 30% reduction in LDL-C compared with baseline. In January 2016, Esperion announced the initiation of a Phase 3 clinical program to test the safety and efficacy of ETC-1002 in patients with hyperlipidemia whose LDL-C is not adequately controlled with low- and moderate-dose statins. 

Other Competition 

Finally, for many of the diseases that are the subject of our RNAi therapeutics pre-clinical development and discovery programs, there are already drugs on the market or in development. For example, with respect to ALN-HBV, oral nucleoside/nucleotide analogues have demonstrated the ability to potently inhibit HBV replication and suppress levels of HBV DNA in patients with HBV and are approved for the treatment of these patients in the United States, Europe and other countries. In addition, a large number of novel agents, including agents using chemically synthesized siRNA, are currently in development for the treatment of patients with HBV. However, notwithstanding the availability of existing drugs or drug candidates, we believe there currently exists sufficient unmet medical need to warrant the advancement of our investigational RNAi therapeutic programs. 

Regulatory Matters 

U.S. Regulatory Considerations 

The research, testing, manufacture and marketing of drug products and their delivery systems are extensively regulated in the United States and the rest of the world. In the United States, drugs are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, approval, manufacture, storage, record keeping, reporting, packaging, labeling, promotion and advertising, marketing and distribution of drug products. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicially-imposed sanctions and the inability to obtain or maintain required approvals to test or market drug products. These sanctions could include, among other things, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, clinical holds, injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 

The steps ordinarily required before a new drug product may be marketed in the United States include nonclinical laboratory tests, animal tests and formulation studies, the submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective prior to commencement of clinical testing, approval by an institutional review board, or IRB, at each clinical site before each trial may be initiated, completion of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish that the drug product is safe and effective for the indication for which FDA approval is sought, submission to the FDA of an NDA, review and recommendation by an advisory committee of independent experts (particularly for new chemical entities), satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements, satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the major investigational sites to ensure data integrity and assess compliance with good clinical practice, or GCP, requirements and FDA review and approval of the NDA. Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements typically takes several years, but may vary substantially depending upon the complexity of the product and the nature of the disease. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of potential products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures on a company&#146;s activities. Success in early stage clinical trials does not necessarily assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities, including but not limited to the data derived from our clinical trials for patisiran, revusiran, fitusiran, 

&#160; 

ALN-CC5, ALN-AS1 and ALN-PCSsc, is not always conclusive and may be subject to alternative interpretations that could delay, limit or even prevent regulatory approval. Even if a product receives regulatory approval, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including new safety risks, may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. 

Clinical Trials. 

Nonclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as animal testing to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product. The conduct of the nonclinical tests and formulation of compounds for testing must comply with federal regulations and requirements. The results of nonclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, together with chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, information, analytical and stability data, a proposed clinical trial protocol and other information. 

A 30-day waiting period after the filing of an IND is required prior to such application becoming effective and the commencement of clinical testing in humans. If the FDA has not commented on, or questioned, the application during this 30-day waiting period, clinical trials may begin. If the FDA has comments or questions, these must be resolved to the satisfaction of the FDA prior to commencement of clinical trials. The IND review process can result in substantial delay and expense. We, an IRB, or the FDA may, at any time, suspend, terminate or impose a clinical hold on ongoing clinical trials. If the FDA imposes a clinical hold, clinical trials cannot commence or recommence without FDA authorization and then only under terms authorized by the FDA. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of an investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted in compliance with federal regulations and requirements, including GCP, which are ethical and scientific quality standards and FDA requirements for conducting, recording and reporting clinical trials to assure data integrity and protect the rights, safety and well-being of trial participants and include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent for their participation in any clinical study. Clinical studies are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the trial and the safety and effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol involving testing on human subjects in the United States must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. In addition, an IRB at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must conduct continuing review. The IRB must review and approve, among other things, the study protocol and informed consent information to be provided to study subjects. An IRB must operate in compliance with FDA regulations. 

Clinical trials to support NDAs for marketing approval are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined. In Phase 1, the initial introduction of the drug into healthy human subjects or patients, the drug is tested to primarily assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, pharmacological actions and metabolism associated with increasing doses. Phase 2 usually involves trials in a limited patient population, to assess the optimum dosage and dose regimen, identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, and provide preliminary support for the efficacy of the drug in the indication being studied. 

If Phase 2 clinical trials demonstrate that a drug may be effective and the risks are considered acceptable given the observed efficacy of the drug and the severity of the illness, Phase 3 clinical trials may be undertaken to further evaluate the drug&#146;s clinical efficacy, side effects, and safety in an expanded patient population, typically at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, to establish the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the drug. Phase 1, Phase 2 or Phase 3 testing of any drug candidates may not be completed successfully within any specified time period, if at all. The FDA closely monitors the progress of each of the three phases of clinical trials that are conducted in the United States. The FDA may, at its discretion, reevaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based upon the data accumulated to that point and the FDA&#146;s assessment of the risk/benefit ratio to the subject. An IRB or a clinical trial sponsor also may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time for various reasons, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. The FDA can also request that additional clinical trials be conducted as a condition to product approval. Finally, sponsors are required to publicly disseminate information about certain ongoing and completed clinical trials on a government website administered by the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, and are subject to civil monetary penalties and other civil and criminal 

&#160; 

sanctions for failing to meet these obligations. After successful completion of the required clinical testing, as well as nonclinical testing and manufacturing requirements, generally an NDA is prepared and submitted to the FDA. 

New Drug Applications (NDA). 

We believe that any RNAi product candidate we develop, whether for the treatment of ATTR amyloidosis, hemophilia and RBD, complement mediated diseases, hypercholesterolemia or the various indications targeted in our development or nonclinical discovery programs, will be regulated as a new drug by the FDA. FDA approval of an NDA is required before marketing of a new drug may begin in the United States. The NDA must include the results of extensive nonclinical, clinical and other testing, as described above, a compilation of data relating to the product&#146;s pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture and controls, proposed labeling and other information. In addition, an NDA for a new active ingredient, new indication, new dosage form, new dosing regimen, or new route of administration must contain data assessing the safety and effectiveness for the claimed indication in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the drug is shown to be safe and effective. In some circumstances, the FDA may grant deferrals for the submission of some or all pediatric data, or full or partial waivers. 

The cost of preparing and submitting an NDA is substantial. Under federal law, NDAs are subject to substantial application user fees and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, as amended, each NDA must be accompanied by a user fee. The FDA adjusts the PDUFA user fees on an annual basis. According to the FDA&#146;s fee schedule, effective through September 30, 2016, the user fee for each NDA application requiring clinical data, is approximately $2.37 million. PDUFA also imposes an annual product fee for drugs, and an annual establishment fee on facilities used to manufacture prescription drugs. Fee waivers or reductions are available in certain circumstances, including a waiver of the application fee for the first application filed by a small business. Additionally, no user fees are assessed on NDAs for products designated as orphan drugs, unless the product also includes a non-orphan indication. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of all NDAs within the first 60 days after submission before accepting them for filing to determine whether they are sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. If the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA. The FDA has agreed to specified performance goals regarding the timing of its review of NDAs, although the FDA does not always meet these goals. The review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission. The FDA may also refer applications for novel drug products or drug products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes independent clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. The FDA normally conducts a pre-approval inspection to gain assurance that the manufacturing facility, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug&#146;s identity, strength, quality, purity and stability, and are in compliance with regulations governing cGMPs. In addition, the FDA often will conduct a bioresearch monitoring inspection of select clinical trial sites involved in conducting pivotal studies to assure data integrity and compliance with applicable GCP requirements. 

If the FDA evaluation of the NDA and the inspections of manufacturing facilities and clinical trial sites are favorable, the FDA may issue an approval letter, which authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for a specific indication. As a condition of NDA approval, the FDA may require post-approval testing, sometimes referred to as Phase 4 trials, and surveillance to monitor the drug&#146;s safety or effectiveness and may impose other conditions, including labeling restrictions, which can materially impact the potential market and profitability of the drug. In addition, the FDA may impose distribution and use restrictions and other limitations on labeling and communication activities with respect to an approved drug product through a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, plan. Once granted, product approvals may be further limited or withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing. 

Once an NDA is approved, a product will be subject to certain post-approval requirements, including requirements for AE reporting, submission of periodic reports, recordkeeping, product sampling and distribution. 

&#160; 

Additionally, the FDA also strictly regulates the promotional claims that may be made about prescription drug products and biologics. In particular, the FDA generally prohibits pharmaceutical companies from promoting their drugs or biologics for uses that are not approved by the FDA as reflected in the product&#146;s approved labeling. In addition, the FDA requires substantiation of any safety or effectiveness claims, including claims that one product is superior in terms of safety or effectiveness to another. Superiority claims generally must be supported by two adequate and well-controlled head-to-head clinical trials. To the extent that market acceptance of our products may depend on their superiority over existing therapies, any restriction on our ability to advertise or otherwise promote claims of superiority, or requirements to conduct additional expensive clinical trials to provide proof of such claims, could negatively affect the sales of our products or our costs. We must also notify the FDA of any change in an approved product beyond variations already allowed in the approval. Certain changes to the product, its labeling or its manufacturing require prior FDA approval and may require the conduct of further clinical investigations to support the change, which may require the payment of additional, substantial user fees. Such approvals may be expensive and time-consuming and, if not approved, the FDA will not allow the product to be marketed as modified. 

If the FDA&#146;s evaluation of the NDA submission or manufacturing facilities is not favorable, the FDA may refuse to approve the NDA or issue a complete response letter. The complete response letter describes the deficiencies that the FDA has identified in an application and, when possible, recommends actions that the applicant might take to place the application in condition for approval. Such actions may include, among other things, conducting additional safety or efficacy studies after which the sponsor may resubmit the application for further review. Even with the completion of this additional testing or the submission of additional requested information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. With limited exceptions, the FDA may withhold approval of an NDA regardless of prior advice it may have provided or commitments it may have made to the sponsor. 

Some of our product candidates may need to be administered using specialized drug delivery systems/devices. We may rely on drug delivery systems that are already approved to deliver drugs like ours to similar physiological sites or, in some instances, we may need to modify the design or labeling of the legally available device for delivery of our product candidate. The FDA may regulate the product as a combination product or require additional approvals or clearances for the modified device. In addition, to the extent the delivery device is owned by another company, we would need that company&#146;s cooperation to implement the necessary changes to the device and to obtain any additional approvals or clearances. Obtaining such additional approvals or clearances, and cooperation of other companies, when necessary, could significantly delay, and increase the cost of obtaining marketing approval, which could reduce the commercial viability of a product candidate. To the extent that we rely on previously unapproved drug delivery systems, we may be subject to additional testing and approval requirements from the FDA above and beyond those described above. 

Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDA). 

Once an NDA is approved, the product covered thereby becomes a listed drug that can, in turn, be relied upon by potential competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or 505(b)(2) application upon expiration of certain patent and non-patent exclusivity periods, if any. An approved ANDA generally provides for marketing of a drug product that has the same active ingredients in the same strength, dosage form and route of administration as the listed drug and has been shown through appropriate testing (unless waived) to be bioequivalent to the listed drug. There is no requirement, other than the requirement for bioequivalence testing (which may be waived by the FDA), for an ANDA applicant to conduct or submit results of nonclinical or clinical tests to prove the safety or effectiveness of its drug product. Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as generic equivalents to the listed drug, are listed as such by the FDA and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the original listed drug. A 505(b)(2) application is a type of NDA that relies, in part, upon data the applicant does not own and to which it does not have a right of reference. Such applications typically are submitted for changes to previously approved drug products. 

Federal law provides for a period of three years of exclusivity following approval of a listed drug that contains a previously approved active ingredient but is approved in, among other things, a new dosage, dosage form, route of administration or combination, or for a new use, if the FDA determines that new clinical 

&#160; 

investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are essential to the approval of the application. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions of use associated with the new clinical investigations and, as a general matter, does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs or 505(b)(2) applications for generic versions of the original, unmodified drug product. Federal law also provides a period of up to five years exclusivity following approval of a drug containing no previously approved active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance, during which ANDAs and 505(b)(2) applications referencing the protected listed drug cannot be submitted unless the submission accompanies a challenge to a listed patent, in which case the submission may be made four years following the original product approval. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA; however, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the nonclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. 

Additionally, in the event that the sponsor of the listed drug has properly informed the FDA of patents covering its listed drug, applicants submitting an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application referencing the listed drug are required to make one of four patent certifications for each listed patent, except for patents covering methods of use for which the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant is not seeking approval. If an applicant certifies its belief that one or more listed patents are invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed (and thereby indicates it is seeking approval prior to patent expiration), it is required to provide notice of its filing to the NDA sponsor and the patent holder within certain time limits. If the patent holder then initiates a suit for patent infringement against the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant within 45 days of receipt of the notice, the FDA cannot grant effective approval of the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application until either 30 months have passed or there has been a court decision or settlement order holding or stating that the patents in question are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. If the patent holder does not initiate a suit for patent infringement within the 45 days, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application may be approved immediately upon successful completion of FDA review, unless blocked by another listed patent or regulatory exclusivity period. If the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant certifies that it does not intend to market its generic product before some or all listed patents on the listed drug expire, then the FDA cannot grant effective approval of the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application until those patents expire. The first of the ANDA applicants submitting substantially complete applications certifying that one or more listed patents for a particular product are invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed may qualify for an exclusivity period of 180 days running from when the generic product is first marketed, during which subsequently submitted ANDAs containing similar certifications cannot be granted effective approval. The 180-day generic exclusivity can be forfeited in various ways, including if the first applicant does not market its product within specified statutory timelines. If more than one applicant files a substantially complete ANDA on the same day, each such first applicant will be entitled to share the 180-day exclusivity period, but there will only be one such period, beginning on the date of first marketing by any of the first applicants. 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, also collectively referred to as the PPACA or the Affordable Care Act, signed into law on March 23, 2010, includes a subtitle called the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCI Act, which created an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products shown to be similar to, or interchangeable with, an FDA-licensed reference biological product. This amendment to the Public Health Service Act attempts to minimize duplicative testing. Biosimilarity, which requires that there be no clinically meaningful differences between the biological product and the reference product in terms of safety, purity, and potency, can be shown through analytical studies, animal studies, and a clinical study or studies. Interchangeability requires that a product is biosimilar to the reference product and the product must demonstrate that it can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the reference product and, for products administered multiple times, the biologic and the reference biologic may be switched after one has been previously administered without increasing safety risks or risks of diminished efficacy relative to exclusive use of the reference biologic. However, complexities associated with the larger, and often more complex, structure of biological products, as well as the process by which such products are manufactured, pose significant hurdles to implementation that are still being worked out by the FDA. 

&#160; 

A reference biologic is granted twelve years of exclusivity from the time of first licensure of the reference product. The first biologic product submitted under the abbreviated licensure pathway that is determined to be interchangeable with the reference product has exclusivity against other biologics submitted under the abbreviated licensure pathway for the lesser of (i) one year after the first commercial marketing, (ii) 18 months after licensure if there is no legal challenge, (iii) 18 months after the resolution in the applicant&#146;s favor of a lawsuit challenging the biologics&#146; patents if an application has been submitted, or (iv) 42 months after the application has been granted licensure if a lawsuit is ongoing within the 42-month period. 

Orphan Drug Designation (ODD). 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant ODD to a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the United States a drug for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States for that drug. ODD must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants ODD, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. We intend to request ODD designation for our product candidates, if applicable. For example, the FDA has granted ODD for patisiran as a therapeutic for the treatment of FAP and for fitusiran as a therapeutic for hemophilia. 

If a product that has ODD subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications, including a full NDA, to market the same drug for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for seven years. For purposes of small molecule drugs, the FDA defines &#147;same drug&#148; as a drug that contains the same active moiety and is intended for the same use as the previously approved orphan drug. For purposes of large molecule drugs, the FDA defines &#147;same drug&#148; as a drug that contains the same principal molecular structural features, but not necessarily all of the same structural features, and is intended for the same use as the drug in question. Notwithstanding the above definitions, a drug that is clinically superior to an orphan drug will not be considered the &#147;same drug&#148; and thus will not be blocked by orphan drug exclusivity. 

A designated orphan drug may not receive orphan drug exclusivity if it is approved for a use that is broader than the indication for which it received orphan designation. In addition, orphan drug exclusive marketing rights in the United States may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantities of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. 

The Orphan Products Grants Program in FDA&#146;s Office of Orphan Products Development, or OOPD, with an annual budget of approximately $14.0 million, supports clinical development of products including drugs, biologics, medical devices and medical foods for use in rare diseases and conditions where no current therapy exists or where the proposed product will be superior to the existing therapy. This program provides grants for clinical studies on safety and/or effectiveness that will either result in, or substantially contribute to, market approval of these products. In addition, OOPD will administer a new grant program, the Pediatric Device Consortia Grant Program, resulting from the 2007 FDAAA legislation to support nonprofit consortia to facilitate pediatric medical device development. The future availability of such grants is subject to uncertainties regarding continued federal funding. 

Pediatric Study Plans. 

From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of drug products. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency or reviewing courts in ways that may significantly affect our business and development of our product candidates and any products that we may commercialize. It is impossible to predict whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of any such changes may be. Federal budget uncertainties or spending reductions may reduce the capabilities of the FDA, extend the duration of required regulatory reviews, and reduce the availability of clinical research grants. 

&#160; 

The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, which was signed into law on July 9, 2012, amended the FDCA. FDASIA requires that a sponsor who is planning to submit a marketing application for a drug or biological product that includes a new active ingredient, new indication, new dosage form, new dosing regimen or new route of administration submit an initial Pediatric Study Plan, or PSP, within sixty days of an end-of-phase 2 meeting or as may be agreed between the sponsor and FDA. The initial PSP must include an outline of the pediatric study or studies that the sponsor plans to conduct, including study objectives and design, age groups, relevant endpoints and statistical approach, or a justification for not including such detailed information, and any request for a deferral of pediatric assessments or a full or partial waiver of the requirement to provide data from pediatric studies along with supporting information. FDA and the sponsor must reach agreement on the PSP. A sponsor can submit amendments to an agreed-upon initial PSP at any time if changes to the pediatric plan need to be considered based on data collected from nonclinical studies, early phase clinical trials, and/or other clinical development programs. 

Fast Track Program. 

The FDA has a Fast Track program that is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new drugs and biological products that meet certain criteria. Specifically, new drugs and biological products are eligible for Fast Track designation if they are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening condition and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Fast Track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. The sponsor of a new drug or biological product may request the FDA to designate the drug or biologic as a Fast Track product at any time during the clinical development of the product, but ideally no later than the pre-NDA or &#150;BLA meeting. Notable to a Fast Track product, the FDA may consider for review sections of the marketing application on a rolling basis before the complete application is submitted, if the sponsor provides a schedule for the submission of the sections of the application, the FDA agrees to accept sections of the application and determines that the schedule is acceptable, and the sponsor pays any required user fees upon submission of the first section of the application. We intend to request Fast Track designation for our product candidates, if applicable. For example, the FDA granted Fast Track designation to patisiran for the treatment of FAP. 

Any product submitted to the FDA for marketing, including under a Fast Track program, may be eligible for other types of FDA programs intended to expedite development and review, such as priority review and accelerated approval. Any product is eligible for priority review if it treats a serious condition and has the potential to provide safe and effective therapy where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists or a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease compared to marketed products. The FDA will attempt to direct additional resources to the evaluation of an application for a new drug or biological product designated for priority review in an effort to facilitate the review. Additionally, a product may be eligible for accelerated approval. Drug or biological products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing treatments may receive accelerated approval, which means that they may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical studies establishing that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit, or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a drug or biological product receiving accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies. In addition, the FDA currently requires as a condition for accelerated approval pre-approval of promotional materials, which could adversely impact the timing of the commercial launch of the product. Fast Track designation, priority review and accelerated approval do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process. 

Breakthrough Therapy Designation. 

The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012 also amended the FDCA to require FDA to expedite the development and review of a &#147;breakthrough therapy.&#148; A drug or biological product can be designated as a breakthrough therapy if it is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that it may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies 

&#160; 

on one or more clinically significant endpoints. A sponsor may request that a drug or biological product be designated as a breakthrough therapy at any time during the clinical development of the product. If so designated, FDA shall act to expedite the development and review of the product&#146;s marketing application, including by meeting with the sponsor throughout the product&#146;s development, providing timely advice to the sponsor to ensure that the development program to gather nonclinical, manufacturing/controls and clinical data is as efficient as practicable, involving senior managers and experienced review staff in a cross-disciplinary review, assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the FDA review team to facilitate an efficient review of the development program and to serve as a scientific liaison between the review team and the sponsor, and taking steps to ensure that the design of the clinical trials is as efficient as practicable. We intend to request &#147;breakthrough therapy&#148; designation for our product candidates, if applicable. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement. 

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any drug products for which we obtain regulatory approval. In the United States and markets in other countries, sales of any products for which we may receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors include government health administrative authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a drug product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the drug product. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved drugs for a particular indication. Third-party payors may provide coverage, but place stringent limitations on such coverage, such as requiring alternative treatments to be tried first. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare product candidates. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to incurring the costs required to obtain FDA approvals. Our product candidates may not be considered medically reasonable or necessary or cost-effective. Even if a drug product is covered, a payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 

Federal, state and local governments in the United States continue to consider legislation to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including the cost of prescription drugs. Future legislation could limit payments for pharmaceuticals such as the drug candidates that we are developing. 

Different pricing and reimbursement schemes exist in other countries. In the EU, governments influence the price of drug products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of those products to consumers. Some jurisdictions operate systems under which products may be marketed only after a reimbursement price has been agreed. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular product candidate to currently available therapies. Other member states allow companies to set their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert competitive pressure that may reduce pricing within a country. 

The marketability of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, the emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and we expect will continue to exert downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies, third-party reimbursement rates and pharmaceutical pricing regulations may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for 

&#160; 

one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

In March 2010, the PPACA was enacted, which includes measures that have or will significantly change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among the provisions of PPACA of greatest importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to enter into and have in effect a national rebate agreement with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services a condition for states to receive federal matching funds for the manufacturer&#146;s outpatient drugs furnished to Medicaid patients. Effective in 2010, PPACA made several changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, including increasing pharmaceutical manufacturers&#146; rebate liability by raising the minimum basic Medicaid rebate on most branded prescription drugs and biologic agents from 15.1% of average manufacturer price, or AMP, to 23.1% of AMP and adding a new rebate calculation for &#147;line extensions&#148; (i.e., new formulations, such as extended release formulations) of solid oral dosage forms of branded products, as well as potentially impacting their rebate liability by modifying the statutory definition of AMP. PPACA also expanded the universe of Medicaid utilization subject to drug rebates by requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay rebates on Medicaid managed care utilization as of 2010 and by expanding the population potentially eligible for Medicaid drug benefits, to be phased-in by 2014. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, have proposed to expand Medicaid rebate liability to the territories of the United States as well. In addition, PPACA provides for the public availability of retail survey prices and certain weighted average AMPs under the Medicaid program. The implementation of this requirement by the CMS may also provide for the public availability of pharmacy acquisition of cost data, which could negatively impact our sales. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In order for a drug product to receive federal reimbursement under the Medicare Part B and Medicaid programs or to be sold directly to U.S. government agencies, the manufacturer must extend discounts to entities eligible to participate in the 340B drug pricing program. The required 340B discount on a given product is calculated based on the AMP and Medicaid rebate amounts reported by the manufacturer. Effective in 2010, PPACA expanded the types of entities eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing, although, under the current state of the law, with the exception of children&#146;s hospitals, these newly eligible entities will not be eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing on orphan drugs. In addition, as 340B drug pricing is determined based on AMP and Medicaid rebate data, the revisions to the Medicaid rebate formula and AMP definition described above could cause the required 340B discount to increase. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Effective in 2011, PPACA imposed a requirement on manufacturers of branded drugs and biologic agents to provide a 50% discount off the negotiated price of branded drugs dispensed to Medicare Part D patients in the coverage gap (i.e., &#147;donut hole&#148;). 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Effective in 2011, PPACA imposed an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, although this fee would not apply to sales of certain products approved exclusively for orphan indications. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Effective in 2012, PPACA required certain manufacturers to track certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals, including any &#147;transfer of value&#148; made or distributed to such entities, as well as any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Manufacturers were required to begin tracking this information in 2013 and to report this information to CMS beginning in 2014. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; As of 2010, a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute was established pursuant to PPACA to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. The research conducted by the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute may affect the market for certain drug products. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; PPACA created the Independent Payment Advisory Board which, beginning in 2014, will have authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program to reduce expenditures by the program that could 

&#160; 

&#160; result in reduced payments for prescription drugs. Under certain circumstances, these recommendations will become law unless Congress enacts legislation that will achieve the same or greater Medicare cost savings. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; PPACA established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending. Funding has been allocated to support the mission of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation from 2011 to 2019. 

EU Regulatory Considerations 

In the EU medicinal products are subject to extensive pre- and post-market regulation by regulatory authorities at both the EU and national levels. 

Clinical Trials. 

Clinical trials of medicinal products in the EU must be conducted in accordance with EU and national regulations and the International Conference on Harmonization, or ICH, guidelines on GCP. If the sponsor of the clinical trial is not established within the EU, it must appoint an entity within the EU to act as its legal representative. The sponsor must take out a clinical trial insurance policy, and in most EU countries the sponsor is liable to provide &#145;no fault&#146; compensation to any study subject injured in the clinical trial. 

Prior to commencing a clinical trial, the sponsor must obtain a clinical trial authorization from the competent authority, and a positive opinion from an independent ethics committee. The application for a clinical trial authorization must include, among other things, a copy of the trial protocol and an investigational medicinal product dossier containing information about the manufacture and quality of the medicinal product under investigation. Currently, CTAs must be submitted to the competent authority in each EU member state in which the trial will be conducted. Under the new Regulation on Clinical Trials, which is currently expected to take effect in October 2018, there will be a centralized application procedure where one national authority takes the lead in reviewing the application and the other national authorities have only a limited involvement. Any substantial changes to the trial protocol or other information submitted with the clinical trial applications must be notified to or approved by the relevant competent authorities and ethics committees. 

The sponsor of a clinical trial must register the clinical trial in advance, and information related to the product, patient population, phase of investigation, study sites and investigators, and other aspects of the clinical trial will be made public as part of the registration. The results of the clinical trial must be submitted to the competent authorities and, with the exception of non-pediatric Phase 1 trials, will be made public at the latest within 12 months after the end of the trial. 

During the development of a medicinal product, the EMA and national medicines regulators within the EU provide the opportunity for dialogue and guidance on the development program. At the EMA level, this is usually done in the form of scientific advice, which is given by the Scientific Advice Working Party of the CHMP. A fee is incurred with each scientific advice procedure. Advice from the EMA is typically provided based on questions concerning, for example, quality (chemistry, manufacturing and controls testing), nonclinical testing and clinical studies, and pharmacovigilance plans and risk-management programs. Advice is not legally binding with regard to any future marketing authorization application of the product concerned. 

Marketing Authorizations. 

After completion of the required clinical testing, we must obtain a marketing authorization before we may place a medicinal product on the market in the EU. There are various application procedures available, depending on the type of product involved. All application procedures require an application in the common technical document, or CTD, format, which includes the submission of detailed information about the manufacturing and quality of the product, and non-clinical and clinical trial information. There is an increasing trend in the EU towards greater transparency and, while the manufacturing or quality information is currently generally protected 

&#160; 

as confidential information, the EMA and national regulatory authorities are now liable to disclose much of the non-clinical and clinical information in marketing authorization dossiers, including the full clinical study reports, in response to freedom of information requests after the marketing authorization has been granted. In October 2014, the EMA adopted a policy under which clinical study reports would be posted on the agency&#146;s website following the grant, denial or withdrawal of a marketing authorization application, subject to procedures for limited redactions and protection against unfair commercial use. A similar requirement is contained in the new Regulation on Clinical Trials that is currently expected to take effect in October 2018. 

The centralized procedure gives rise to marketing authorizations that are valid throughout the EU and, by extension (after national implementing decisions), in Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, which, together with the EU member states, comprise the European Economic Area, or EEA. Applicants file MAAs with the EMA, where they are reviewed by a relevant scientific committee, in most cases the CHMP. The EMA forwards CHMP opinions to the EC, which uses them as the basis for deciding whether to grant a marketing authorization. The centralized procedure is compulsory for medicinal products that (1) are derived from biotechnology processes, (2) contain a new active substance (not yet approved on 20 November 2005) indicated for the treatment of certain diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, cancer, diabetes, neurodegenerative disorders, viral diseases or autoimmune diseases and other immune dysfunctions, (3) are orphan medicinal products or (4) are ATMPS, such as gene or cell therapy medicines. For medicines that do not fall within these categories, an applicant may voluntarily submit an application for a centralized marketing authorization to the EMA, as long as the CHMP agrees that (i) the medicine concerned contains a new active substance (not yet approved on 20 November 2005), (ii) the medicine is a significant therapeutic, scientific, or technical innovation, or (iii) if its authorization under the centralized procedure would be in the interest of public health. 

For those medicinal products for which the centralized procedure is not available, the applicant must submit marketing authorization applications to the national medicines regulators through one of three procedures: (1) a national procedure, which results in a marketing authorization in a single EU member state; (2) the decentralized procedure, in which applications are submitted simultaneously in two or more EU member states; and (3) the mutual recognition procedure, which must be used if the product has already been authorized in at least one other EU member state, and in which the EU member states are required to grant an authorization recognizing the existing authorization in the other EU member state, unless they identify a serious risk to public health. A national procedure is only possible for one member state; as soon as an application is submitted in a second member state the mutual recognition or decentralized procedure will be triggered. 

Under the centralized procedure in the EU, the maximum timeframe for the evaluation of a marketing authorization application is 210 days. However, this timeline excludes clock stops, when additional written or oral information is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions asked by the CHMP, so the overall process typically takes a year or more. Accelerated evaluation might be granted by the CHMP in exceptional cases, when a medicinal product is expected to be of a major public health interest, defined by three cumulative criteria: the seriousness of the disease (e.g. heavy disabling or life-threatening diseases) to be treated; the absence or insufficiency of an appropriate alternative therapeutic approach; and anticipation of high therapeutic benefit. In this circumstance, EMA ensures that the opinion of the CHMP is given within 150 days. 

Data Exclusivity. 

MAAs for generic medicinal products do not need to include the results of pre-clinical and clinical trials, but instead can refer to the data included in the marketing authorization of a reference product for which regulatory data exclusivity has expired. If a marketing authorization is granted for a medicinal product containing a new active substance, that product benefits from eight years of data exclusivity, during which generic marketing authorization applications referring to the data of that product may not be accepted by the regulatory authorities, and a further two years of market exclusivity, during which such generic products may not be placed on the market. The two-year period may be extended to three years if during the first eight years a new therapeutic indication with significant clinical benefit over existing therapies is approved. 

There is a special regime for biosimilars, or biological medicinal products that are similar to a reference medicinal product but that do not meet the definition of a generic medicinal product, for example, because of 

&#160; 

differences in raw materials or manufacturing processes. For such products, the results of appropriate pre-clinical or clinical trials must be provided, and guidelines from the EMA detail the type of quantity of supplementary data to be provided for different types of biological product. There are no such guidelines for complex biological products, such as gene or cell therapy medicinal products, and so it is unlikely that biosimilars of those products will currently be approved in the EU. However, guidance from the EMA states that they will be considered in the future in light of the scientific knowledge and regulatory experience gained at the time. 

Orphan Medicinal Products. 

The EMA&#146;s COMP may recommend orphan medicinal product designation to promote the development of products that are intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions affecting not more than five in 10,000 persons in the EU. Additionally, designation is granted for products intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition and when, without incentives, it is unlikely that sales of the product in the EU would be sufficient to justify the necessary investment in developing the medicinal product. The COMP may only recommend orphan medicinal product designation when the product in question offers a significant clinical benefit over existing approved products for the relevant indication. Following a positive opinion by the COMP, the EC adopts a decision granting orphan status. The COMP will reassess orphan status in parallel with EMA review of a marketing authorization application and orphan status may be withdrawn at that stage if it no longer fulfills the orphan criteria (for instance because in the meantime a new product was approved for the indication and no convincing data are available to demonstrate a significant benefit over that product). Orphan medicinal product designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and ten years of market exclusivity is granted following marketing authorization. During this period, the competent authorities may not accept or approve any similar medicinal product, unless it offers a significant clinical benefit. This period may be reduced to six years if the orphan medicinal product designation criteria are no longer met, including where it is shown that the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. 

Post-Approval Controls. 

The holder of a marketing authorization must establish and maintain a pharmacovigilance system and appoint an individual qualified person for pharmacovigilance, or QPPV, who is responsible for oversight of that system. Key obligations include expedited reporting of suspected serious adverse reactions and submission of periodic safety update reports, or PSURs. 

All new marketing authorization applications must include a risk management plan, or RMP, describing the risk management system that the company will put in place and documenting measures to prevent or minimize the risks associated with the product. The regulatory authorities may also impose specific obligations as a condition of the marketing authorization. Such risk-minimization measures or post-authorization obligations may include additional safety monitoring, more frequent submission of PSURs, or the conduct of additional clinical trials or post-authorization safety studies. RMPs and PSURs are routinely available to third parties requesting access, subject to limited redactions. 

All advertising and promotional activities for the product must be consistent with the approved summary of product characteristics, and therefore all off-label promotion is prohibited. Direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription medicines is also prohibited in the EU. Although general requirements for advertising and promotion of medicinal products are established under EU directives, the details are governed by regulations in each member state and can differ from one country to another. 

Manufacturing. 

Medicinal products may only be manufactured in the EU, or imported into the EU from another country, by the holder of a manufacturing authorization from the competent national authority. The manufacturer or importer must have a qualified person, or QP, who is responsible for certifying that each batch of product has been manufactured in accordance with EU standards of cGMP before releasing the product for commercial distribution in the EU or for use in a clinical trial. Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by the competent authorities for compliance with cGMP. 

&#160; 

Pricing and Reimbursement. 

Governments influence the price of medicinal products in the EU through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part of the cost of those products to consumers. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular product candidate to currently available therapies. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general, particularly prescription medicines, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. 

Foreign Regulation of New Drug Compounds 

In addition to regulations in the United States and the EU, we are subject to a variety of regulations in other jurisdictions governing, among other things, clinical trials and any commercial sales and distribution of our products. 

Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain the requisite approvals from regulatory authorities in all or most foreign countries prior to the commencement of clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. Certain countries outside of the United States have a similar process that requires the submission of a CTA, much like the IND prior to the commencement of human clinical trials. Once the CTA is approved in accordance with a country&#146;s requirements, clinical trial development may proceed. Similarly, all clinical trials in Australia require, among other things, review and approval of clinical trial proposals by an ethics committee, which provides a combined ethical and scientific review process. 

The requirements and process governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, the clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with GCP, which have their origin in the World Medical Association&#146;s Declaration of Helsinki, the applicable regulatory requirements, and guidelines developed by the ICH for GCP practices in clinical trials. 

The approval procedure also varies among countries and can involve requirements for additional testing. The time required may differ from that required for FDA approval and may be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Thus, there can be substantial delays in obtaining required approvals from foreign regulatory authorities after the relevant applications are filed. 

If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. 

Hazardous Materials 

Our research, development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive materials and produce waste products. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. We do not expect the cost of complying with these laws and regulations to be material. 

Manufacturing 

To date, we have manufactured only limited supplies of drug substance for use in IND-enabling toxicology studies in animals at our own facility and have contracted with several third-party contract manufacturing organizations for the supply of drug substance and finished product to meet our testing needs for pre-clinical toxicology and clinical testing. We expect to continue to rely on third-party contract manufacturing organizations for the supply of drug substance and certain drug product, including siRNAs and siRNA conjugates, for our product candidates for at least the next several years. During 2015, we amended our manufacturing agreement with Agilent Technologies, Inc., or Agilent, to provide for Agilent to supply, subject to any conflicting 

&#160; 

obligations under our third-party agreements, a specified percentage of the active pharmaceutical ingredients required for certain of our products in clinical development, as well as other products the parties may agree upon in the future, over an initial term of four years. We are required to provide rolling forecasts for products on a quarterly basis, a portion of which will be considered a binding, firm order. Agilent is required to reserve sufficient capacity to ensure that it can supply products in the amounts specified under such firm orders, as well as up to a certain percentage of the remaining, non-binding portions of each forecast. Subject to any conflicting obligations under our third-party agreements, we have also agreed to negotiate in good faith to enter into a separate commercial manufacturing supply agreement with Agilent for certain products, consistent with certain specified terms, including a specified minimum purchase commitment. In February 2016, we entered into an agreement with 20 Commerce LLC to purchase a parcel of land in Norton, Massachusetts. We plan to construct a manufacturing facility at this site for drug substance, including siRNAs and siRNA conjugates, for human clinical and commercial use. 

During 2012, we established a manufacturing facility and have developed cGMP capabilities and processes for the manufacture of patisiran formulated bulk drug product for late-stage clinical trials and commercial use. During 2013, we manufactured our first cGMP batches of patisiran for use in our Phase 2 OLE and Phase 3 clinical trials. We expect to manufacture late-stage clinical and commercial supply for patisiran formulated bulk drug product in our facility. Commercial quantities of any drugs that we may seek to develop will have to be manufactured in facilities, and by processes, that comply with FDA regulations and other federal, state and local regulations, as well as comparable foreign regulations. 

We believe we have sufficient manufacturing capacity through our third-party contract manufacturers and our current internal cGMP manufacturing facility to meet our current research, clinical and early-stage commercial needs. We believe that the supply capacity we have established externally, together with the internal capacity we developed to support pre-clinical trials, our existing facility for patisiran formulated bulk drug product and the new facility we are planning to construct, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for the next several years. We monitor the capacity availability for the manufacture of drug substance and drug product and believe that our supply agreements with our contract manufactures and the lead times for new supply agreements would allow us to access additional capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. We also believe that our products can be manufactured at a scale and with production and procurement efficiencies that will result in commercially competitive costs. 

Scientific Advisors 

We seek advice from our scientific advisory board, which consists of a number of leading scientists and physicians, on scientific and medical matters. Our scientific advisory board meets regularly to assess: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our research and development programs; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the design and implementation of our clinical programs; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our patent and publication strategies; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; new technologies relevant to our research and development programs; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; specific scientific and technical issues relevant to our business. 

&#160; 

The current members of our scientific advisory board are: 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Position/Institutional Affiliation 

Dennis A. Ausiello, M.D. 

&#160; Director/Center for Assessment Technology and Continuous Health (CATCH); Jackson Distinguished Professor of Clinical Medicine/Harvard Medical School; Physician-in-Chief Emeritus/Massachusetts General Hospital David P. Bartel, Ph.D. 

&#160; Member/Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research; Professor/Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Investigator/Howard Hughes Medical Institute Nancy J. Brown, M.D. 

&#160; Professor of Medicine and Pharmacology, Hugh J. Morgan Chair of the Department of Medicine/Vanderbilt University School of Medicine Robert S. Langer, Ph.D. 

&#160; Institute Professor/Massachusetts Institute of Technology Judy Lieberman, M.D., Ph.D. 

&#160; Senior Investigator/Immune Disease Institute &#151; Harvard Medical School; 

Professor/Harvard Medical School; Chair in Cellular and Molecular Medicine/Boston Children&#146;s Hospital 

Muthiah Manoharan, Ph.D. 

&#160; Senior Vice President, Innovation Chemistry and Distinguished Scientist/Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Paul R. Schimmel, Ph.D. 

&#160; Ernest and Jean Hahn Professor/Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology, The Scripps Research Institute Phillip A. Sharp, Ph.D. 

&#160; Institute Professor/The Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Daniel J. Rader, M.D. 

&#160; Professor of Molecular Medicine and Chief, Division of Translational Medicine and Human Genetics/Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania Markus Stoffel, M.D., Ph.D. 

&#160; Professor/Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) Zurich Thomas H. Tuschl, Ph.D. 

&#160; Professor/Rockefeller University; Investigator/Howard Hughes Medical Institute Phillip D. Zamore, Ph.D. 

&#160; Gretchen Stone Cook Professor/University of Massachusetts Medical School; 

Co-Director/RNA Therapeutics Institute, University of Massachusetts Medical School; Investigator/Howard Hughes Medical Institute 

Employees 

At January 29, 2016, we had 369 employees, 317 of whom were engaged in research and development. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced work stoppages. We believe that relations with our employees are good. 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas 

See the section entitled &#147;Segment Information&#148; appearing in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about geographic areas. The Notes to our consolidated financial statements are contained in Part II, Item 8, &#147;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,&#148; of this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Corporate Information 

Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was formed in May 2003. Alnylam U.S., Inc., one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, is also a Delaware corporation that was formed in June 2002 as our initial corporate entity. In July 2003, we acquired Ribopharma AG (now called Alnylam Europe AG and one of our wholly owned subsidiaries), which was incorporated in Germany in June 2000. Our principal executive office is located at 300 Third Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, and our telephone number is (617) 551-8200. 

&#160; 

Investor Information 

We maintain an internet website at http://www.alnylam.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered to be a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our website address is included in this annual report on Form 10-K as an inactive technical reference only. Our reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, are accessible through our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed electronically with, or otherwise furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. We also make available on our website the charters of our audit committee, compensation committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, and science and technology committee, as well as our corporate governance guidelines and our code of business conduct and ethics. In addition, we intend to disclose on our web site any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct and ethics that are required to be disclosed pursuant to the SEC rules. 

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding Alnylam and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC&#146;s Internet website address is http://www.sec.gov. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Set forth below is information about our executive officers, as of December 31, 2015. 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Age &#160; &#160; Position 

John M. Maraganore, Ph.D 

&#160; &#160; 53 &#160; &#160; Chief Executive Officer and Director Barry E. Greene 

&#160; &#160; 52 &#160; &#160; President and Chief Operating Officer Akshay K. Vaishnaw, M.D., Ph.D. 

&#160; &#160; 53 &#160; &#160; Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer David-Alexandre Gros, M.D. 

&#160; &#160; 43 &#160; &#160; Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer Laurie B. Keating 

&#160; &#160; 61 &#160; &#160; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Michael P. Mason 

&#160; &#160; 41 &#160; &#160; Vice President of Finance and Treasurer John M. Maraganore, Ph.D. has served as our Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our board of directors since December 2002. Dr. Maraganore also served as our President from December 2002 to December 2007. From April 2000 to December 2002, Dr. Maraganore served as Senior Vice President, Strategic Product Development at Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company (now Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company). Dr. Maraganore serves as a member of the board of directors of Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biotechnology company and bluebird bio, Inc., a biotechnology company. 

Barry E. Greene has served as our President and Chief Operating Officer since December 2007, as our Chief Operating Officer since he joined us in October 2003, and from February 2004 through December 2005, as our Treasurer. From February 2001 to September 2003, Mr. Greene served as General Manager of Oncology at Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company (now Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company). Mr. Greene serves as a member of the board of directors of Acorda Therapeutics, Inc., a biotechnology company and Karyopharm Therapeutics Inc., a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company. 

Akshay K. Vaishnaw, M.D., Ph.D. has served as our Executive Vice President of Research and Development since December 2014 and has served as our Chief Medical Officer since June 2011. He served as our Executive Vice President from June 2012 to December 2014 and prior to that as our Senior Vice President from June 2011 to June 2012. He served as our Senior Vice President, Clinical Research from December 2008 to June 2011, and prior to that served as our Vice President, Clinical Research from the time he joined us in January 2006. From December 1998 through December 2005, Dr. Vaishnaw held various positions at Biogen Idec Inc. (formerly Biogen, Inc.), a biopharmaceutical company. Dr. Vaishnaw is a Member of the Royal College of Physicians, United Kingdom. 

&#160; 

David-Alexandre Gros, M.D. has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer since June 2015. Prior to joining Alnylam, Dr. Gros served as Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer at Sanofi SA, from September 2011 to June 2015, where he was a member of the Executive Committee and the Global Leadership Team. Prior to Sanofi, he held positions of increasing responsibility in investment banking at Centerview Partners from 2009 to July 2011 and Merrill Lynch from 2006 to 2009, and in management consulting at McKinsey &#38; Company prior to that time. 

Laurie B. Keating has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since September 2014. Prior to joining Alnylam, Ms. Keating served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company, a biopharmaceutical company, from September 2004 to January 2014. Prior to Millennium, Ms. Keating was co-founder and the first chief executive officer of Hydra Biosciences, Inc. Before co-founding Hydra, she served as an executive at several high growth technology companies. Upon graduating from law school, Ms. Keating practiced law at McCutchen, Doyle, Brown and Enersen (which became Bingham McCutchen and is now a part of Morgan, Lewis &#38; Bockius). 

Michael P. Mason has served as our Vice President of Finance and Treasurer since February 2011. From December 2005 to February 2011, Mr. Mason served as our Corporate Controller, and from August 2009 to February 2011, as our Senior Director of Finance. From June 2006 to July 2009, Mr. Mason served as our Director of Finance. From May 2000 through November 2005, Mr. Mason served in several finance and commercial roles at Praecis Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, a public biotechnology company, most recently as Corporate Controller. Prior to Praecis, Mr. Mason worked in the audit practice at KPMG LLP, a national audit, tax and advisory services firm. Mr. Mason has an MBA and is a certified public accountant. 

&#160; 

