 Item 1. Business. 

Unless otherwise specified, references to "Brookdale," "we," "us," "our" or "the Company" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K mean Brookdale Senior Living Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries.

Overview

Our Business

As of December 31, 2015, we are the largest operator of senior living communities in the United States based on total capacity, with 1,123 communities in 47 states and the ability to serve approximately 108,000 residents. We offer our residents access to a full continuum of services across the most attractive sectors of the senior living industry. We operate independent living, assisted living and dementia-care communities and continuing care retirement centers ("CCRCs"). Through our ancillary services programs, we also offer a range of outpatient therapy, home health, personalized living and hospice services to residents of many of our communities and to seniors living outside of our communities.

As of December 31, 2015, we owned or leased 959 communities with 81,067 units and provided management services with respect to 164 communities with 27,353 units for third parties or unconsolidated ventures in which we have an ownership interest. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 130 retirement center communities with 24,486 units, 915 assisted living communities with 62,567 units and 78 CCRCs with 21,367 units. We offer home health services to approximately 66,000 of our units and outpatient therapy services to approximately 64,000 of our units. The majority of our units are located in campus settings or communities containing multiple services, including CCRCs. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we generated approximately 81.9% of our resident fee revenues from private pay customers. For the year ended December 31, 2015, 38.8% of our resident and management fee revenues were generated from owned communities, 48.7% from leased communities, 11.1% from our Brookdale Ancillary Services business and 1.4% from management fees from communities we operate on behalf of third parties or unconsolidated ventures.

We believe that we are positioned to take advantage of favorable demographic trends and future supply-demand dynamics in the senior living industry. We also believe that we operate in the most attractive sectors of the senior living industry with opportunities to increase our revenues through providing a combination of housing, hospitality services, ancillary services and health care services. Our senior living communities offer residents a supportive "home-like" setting, assistance with activities of daily living ("ADLs") (such as eating, bathing, dressing, toileting and transferring/walking) and, in certain communities, licensed skilled nursing services. We also provide ancillary services, including therapy and home health services, to our residents. Our strategy is to be the leading provider of senior living solutions, built on a large and growing senior housing platform. By providing residents with a range of service options as their needs change, we provide greater continuity of care, enabling seniors to "age-in-place" and thereby maintain residency with us for a longer period of time. The ability of residents to age-in-place is also beneficial to our residents and their families who are concerned with care decisions for their elderly relatives.

We believe that there are organic growth opportunities inherent in our existing portfolio. We intend to take advantage of those opportunities by growing revenues, while maintaining expense control, at our existing communities, continuing the expansion and maturation of our ancillary services programs, expanding, renovating, redeveloping and repositioning our existing communities, and acquiring additional operating companies and communities.

On July 31, 2014, we acquired Emeritus Corporation ("Emeritus"), a senior living service provider focused on operating residential style communities throughout the United States, for approximately $3.0 billion consisting of the issuance of our stock with a fair value of approximately $1.6 billion and our assumption of approximately $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of existing mortgage indebtedness. At the closing of the merger, the size of our consolidated portfolio increased by 493 communities, 182 of which were owned and 311 of which were subject to leases that we directly or indirectly assumed in the merger. The Emeritus communities provide independent living, assisted living, memory care and, to a lesser extent, skilled nursing care.

The merger significantly increased our scale and provides us the opportunity to leverage this scale to build our national brand and provide greater organic growth, achieve greater operating efficiencies, and drive new innovations to serve our residents. In addition, the merger provided us entry into 10 new states and significantly increased our presence in many high-population states, especially in the west and northeast. Enhanced geographic coverage and density is a contributing factor to our ability to increase our operating efficiencies and may provide additional opportunities for growth from markets with clusters of assets. The merger also enables us to expand our therapy, home health and hospice ancillary programs into the Emeritus communities and accelerate the introduction of Emeritus' Nurse on Call home health services into our major markets. The results of Emeritus' operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements subsequent to the acquisition date. Revenue and facility operating expenses of legacy Emeritus locations included in the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $1.8 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. Revenue and facility operating expenses of legacy Emeritus locations included in the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $785.5 million and $511.9 million, respectively.

Since the closing of our acquisition of Emeritus, we have executed on our plans to integrate legacy Emeritus locations into our systems and infrastructure platform as rapidly as prudently possible. In 2015, we completed the final cutover waves of integration activities and have a common system and infrastructure platform in place. We will continue to reinforce and refine our operating model and certain processes during 2016.

Developments during 2015

During the year ended December 31, 2015, we completed several transactions as part of our long-term objectives to grow our revenues, Adjusted EBITDA, Cash From Facility Operations and Facility Operating Income. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8212; Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for an explanation of how we define each of these measures, a detailed description of why we believe such measures are useful and the limitations of each measure, and a reconciliation of each of the Non-GAAP measures to net income (loss). These transactions include:

&#8226;

Community Acquisitions . During the year ended December 31, 2015, we acquired the underlying real estate associated with 30 communities that were previously leased for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $422.2 million.

&#8226;

Investment in Unconsolidated RIDEA Venture . On June 30, 2015, the Company and HCP, Inc. ("HCP") entered into a RIDEA venture, which acquired 35 senior housing communities for $847 million. The Company contributed $30.3 million in cash to the RIDEA venture. The Company owns a 10% ownership interest, and HCP owns a 90% ownership interest, in each of the propco and opco. The Company had operated these communities under a management agreement since 2011 and will continue to manage the communities under a market rate long-term management agreement with the venture.

&#8226;

Community Dispositions . During the year ended December 31, 2015, we identified 34 owned communities as assets held for sale, with 17 of these communities being sold for an aggregate selling price of approximately $82.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2015. The communities were identified as non-core assets that do not fit our long-term strategy. The sale of the remaining 17 communities is expected in 2016, although there can be no assurance that the transactions will close or if they do, when the actual closing will occur.

During the year, we also made additional progress on our Program Max initiative under which we expand, renovate, redevelop and reposition certain of our existing communities where economically advantageous. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we invested $37.5 million on Program Max projects, net of $28.3 million of third party lessor reimbursements, which included the completion of eleven expansion or conversion projects which resulted in 59 additional units. We currently have 13 additional Program Max projects that have been approved, most of which have begun construction and are expected to generate 285 net new units.

Growth Strategy

Our primary growth objectives are to grow our revenues, Adjusted EBITDA, Cash From Facility Operations and Facility Operating Income. Key elements of our strategy to achieve these objectives over time include:

&#8226;

Organic growth in our seniors housing business by increasing occupancy and rates, while controlling operating expenses. &#160; We plan to grow our existing operations by increasing revenues through a combination of occupancy growth and increases in the monthly service fees we receive. We intend to focus on growing occupancy and rates by continually improving our operational, sales and marketing execution. We have created a multi-layered marketing approach, which balances the use of the internet and response mechanisms like centralized call centers with national, regional and local marketing activities. In particular, our marketing approach leverages the national Brookdale branding initiative that was launched in 2013. We also plan to continue our efforts to achieve property-level cost savings through the realization of additional economies of scale and initiatives designed to capture synergies and improve operational effectiveness following the acquisition of Emeritus in 2014. We will continue to improve our systems and processes to most efficiently meet the needs of our residents.

&#160; &#8226; 

Growth through strategic capital allocation. &#160; We plan to grow our revenues and cash flows by deploying capital to increase the value of our existing communities and, as opportunities arise, selectively engaging in acquisitions. We have invested significant capital expenditures into our portfolio to renovate and upgrade communities, which we expect will drive greater occupancy and higher rates in those communities over time. Through our Program Max initiative, we intend to expand, renovate, redevelop and reposition certain of our existing communities where economically advantageous. Certain of our communities with stabilized occupancies and excess demand in their respective markets may benefit from additions and expansions (which additions and expansions may be subject to landlord, lender and other third party consents). Additionally, the community, as well as our presence in the market, may benefit from adding a new level of service for residents. Through Program Max, we may also reposition certain communities to meet the evolving needs of our customers. This may include converting space from one level of care to another, reconfiguration of existing units, the addition of services that are not currently present or physical plant modifications. We will continue our capital expenditure programs, including our Program Max initiative, but in the near-term at reduced investment levels compared to prior years. While our focus will be on executing our business plan post-integration of Emeritus, as opportunities arise, we plan to selectively purchase existing operating companies, asset portfolios, home health agencies and senior living communities. We may also seek to acquire the fee interest in communities that we currently lease or manage. Our acquisition strategy will continue to focus primarily on accretive acquisitions of strategic portfolios or select communities that fill a service level need in one of our market continuums.

&#61623;&#8226;

Growth through development of a market leading Brookdale brand. &#160; We plan to continue to build a recognized national brand, which we believe will create market differentiation and value enhancement through higher occupancy and increased rates. Being the sole senior living provider with a national footprint and diverse service offerings, we are best positioned to become the leading solutions provider for seniors and their families as they grapple with the issues of aging. We expect that aligning and unifying marketing activities and spending within the brand initiative will drive preference for Brookdale among prospects. We expect that creating brand equity will drive loyalty with residents and their families and, importantly, with associates, thereby improving recruitment, engagement and retention.

&#61623;&#8226;

Growth through innovation of product offerings, including our Brookdale Ancillary Services programs. &#160; We plan to grow our revenues by innovating our product offerings and providing new senior living solutions to meet evolving consumer needs and expectations. We plan to provide more solutions for current customers and leverage and expand products to serve new customers. We plan to continue to roll out hospice services into selected markets. We also plan to leverage the array of services that are currently offered to residents in our buildings to seniors who want to remain in their homes. Through the Brookdale Ancillary Services programs, we currently provide therapy, home health, hospice and other ancillary services, as well as education and wellness programs. We plan to focus on expanding those services outside of our communities to seniors in their homes, initially to those who are short-term patients of skilled nursing centers. We expect that this will not only grow cash flow, but also provide quality service in a person's home that can become the entry point into the full continuum of our services. We also believe that there is a significant opportunity to become a player in the post-acute healthcare world as it evolves. We expect to continue our initiatives to link our unique continuum of care with other post-acute care providers to provide the most effective, comprehensive set of solutions for seniors.

The Senior Living Industry

The senior living industry has undergone dramatic growth in the last twenty years, marked by the emergence of the assisted living segment in the mid-1990s. The industry is highly fragmented and characterized by numerous local and regional operators. We are one of a limited number of large operators that provide a broad range of community locations and service level offerings at varying price levels.

Beginning in 2007, the industry was affected by the downturn in the general economy, increased unemployment and a downturn in the housing market. In spite of these factors, industry occupancy declined only approximately 300 basis points to a cyclic low in early 2010 of 87.0%, while rate growth remained positive at less than 1% per year. This also resulted in a near halt in construction of new units. The industry has experienced a slow recovery in occupancy and rate growth since the beginning of 2010 according to the National Investment Center for the Seniors Housing &#38; Care Industry ("NIC"). Over the past year, industry occupancy has been rising modestly, as the pace of absorption has been outpacing inventory growth.

We believe that a number of trends will contribute to the continued growth of the senior living industry in coming years. The primary market for senior living services is individuals age 75 and older. According to U.S. Census data, that group is projected to be the fastest growing age cohort over the next twenty years. As a result of scientific and medical breakthroughs over the past 30 years, seniors are living longer. Due to demographic trends, and continuing advances in science, nutrition and healthcare, the senior population will continue to grow, and we expect the demand for senior living services to continue to increase in future years.

We believe the senior living industry has been and will continue to be impacted by several other trends. Increased longevity results in increasing frailty in seniors, soaring rates of dementia among the elderly, and a growing burden of chronic illness and chronic conditions. As a result of increased mobility in society, a reduction of average family size and increased number of two-wage earner couples, families struggle to provide care for seniors and look for alternatives outside of their family for their care. There is a growing consumer awareness among seniors and their families concerning the types of services provided by senior living operators, which has further contributed to the demand for senior living services. Also, the current prospective senior customer possesses greater financial resources than in the past, which makes it more likely that they are able to afford to live in market-rate senior housing. Seniors in the demographic cohort that were born between 1925 and 1945 have a significant amount of income generated from savings, pensions, and social security, along with a strong asset base.

Challenges in our industry include increased state and local regulation of the assisted living and skilled nursing sectors, which has led to an increase in the cost of doing business. The regulatory environment continues to intensify in the number and types of laws and regulations affecting us, accompanied by increased enforcement activity by state and local officials. In addition, like other companies, our financial results may be negatively impacted by increasing employment costs including salaries, wages and benefits, such as health care benefit coverage, for our employees. Increases in the costs of food, utilities, insurance, and real estate taxes may also have a negative impact on our financial results.

Beginning October 1, 2011, we were impacted by a reduction in the reimbursement rates for Medicare skilled nursing patients and home health patients, as well as a negative change in the allowable method for delivering therapy services to skilled nursing patients (resulting in increased therapy labor expense). In addition, certain per person annual limits on Medicare reimbursement for therapy services became effective in 2006, subject to certain exceptions. These exceptions are currently scheduled to expire on December 31, 2017. If these exceptions are modified or not extended beyond that date, our revenues and net operating income relating to our outpatient therapy services could be materially adversely impacted.

Effective October 1, 2012, certain Medicare Part B therapy services exceeding a specified threshold are subject to a prepayment manual medical review process. The review process has had an adverse effect on the provision and billing of services for patients and could negatively impact therapist productivity. These Medicare Part B therapy cap exception requirements, including the applicable pre-approval requirements, could also negatively impact the revenues and net operating income relating to our outpatient therapy services business. Pursuant to the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, which was signed by the President on April 16, 2015, the manual review process will be replaced with a new review program to be developed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

In addition, there continue to be various federal and state legislative and regulatory proposals to implement cost containment measures that would limit payments to healthcare providers in the future. We cannot predict what action, if any, Congress will take on reimbursement policies of the Medicare program or what future rule changes the CMS will implement. Changes in the reimbursement policies of the Medicare program could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow.

Our History

We were formed as a Delaware corporation in June 2005 for the purpose of combining two leading senior living operating companies, Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. ("BLC") and Alterra Healthcare Corporation ("Alterra"). BLC and Alterra had been operating independently since 1986 and 1981, respectively. On November 22, 2005, we completed our initial public offering of common stock, and on July 25, 2006, we acquired American Retirement Corporation ("ARC"), another leading senior living provider that had been operating independently since 1978. On September 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition of Horizon Bay, the then-ninth largest operator of senior living communities in the United States.

On July 31, 2014, we completed the merger contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 20, 2014, by and among Emeritus Corporation, a Washington corporation, Brookdale Senior Living Inc., and Broadway Merger Sub Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, pursuant to which the subsidiary merged with and into Emeritus, with Emeritus continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours. At the time of the merger, Emeritus was the second largest operator of senior living communities in the United States.

Our Communities and Service Offerings

We offer a variety of senior living housing and service alternatives in communities located across the United States. Our communities consist of retirement center communities, assisted living communities, rental CCRCs and entry fee CCRCs. We manage certain of our communities for third parties or unconsolidated ventures in which we have an ownership interest pursuant to management agreements. In addition, through our ancillary services programs, we provide outpatient therapy, home health, personalized living and hospice services to residents of many of our communities and to seniors living outside of our communities.

Retirement Centers. Our retirement center communities are primarily designed for middle to upper income seniors generally age 75 and older who desire an upscale residential environment providing the highest quality of service.

The majority of our retirement center communities consist of both independent and assisted living units in a single community, which allows residents to "age-in-place" by providing them with a continuum of senior independent and assisted living services. While the number varies depending upon the particular community, as of December 31, 2015 approximately 78.9% of all of the units at our retirement center communities are independent living units, with the balance of units licensed for assisted living.

Our retirement center communities are large multi-story buildings containing on average 188 units with extensive common areas and amenities. Residents may choose from studio, one-bedroom and two-bedroom units, depending upon the specific community.

Each retirement center community provides residents with basic services such as meal service, 24-hour emergency response, housekeeping, concierge services, transportation and recreational activities. Most of these communities also offer custom tailored supplemental care services at an additional charge, which may include medication reminders, check-in services and escort and companion services.

In addition to the basic services, our retirement center communities that include assisted living also provide residents with supplemental care service options to provide assistance with ADLs. The levels of care provided to residents vary from community to community depending, among other things, upon the licensing requirements and healthcare regulations of the state in which the community is located.

Residents in our retirement center communities are able to maintain their residency for an extended period of time due to the range of service options available to residents (not including skilled nursing) as their needs change.

Residents with cognitive or physical frailties and higher level service needs are accommodated with supplemental services in their own units or, in certain communities, are cared for in a more structured and supervised environment on a separate wing or floor. These communities also generally have a dedicated assisted living staff, including nurses at the majority of communities, and separate assisted living dining rooms and activity areas.

Retirement center communities that we own or lease are included in our Retirement Centers segment, and retirement center communities for which we provide management services for third parties or unconsolidated ventures in which we have an ownership interest are included in our Management Services segment. As of December 31, 2015, our Retirement Center segment consisted of 95 retirement center communities with 17,140 units, representing 15.8% of our total senior living capacity, and 35 retirement center communities with 7,346 units were included in our Management Services segment, representing 6.8% of our total senior living capacity. In the aggregate, these retirement center communities represented 22.6% of our total senior living capacity.

Assisted Living. Our assisted living communities offer housing and 24-hour assistance with ADLs to mid-acuity frail and elderly residents. Our assisted living communities include both freestanding, multi-story communities with more than 50 beds and smaller, freestanding single story communities with less than 50 beds. Depending upon the specific location, the community may include (i) private studio, one-bedroom and one-bedroom deluxe apartments, or (ii) individual rooms for one or two residents in wings or "neighborhoods" scaled to a single-family home, which includes a living room, dining room, patio or enclosed porch, laundry room and personal care area, as well as a caregiver work station.

We also operate memory care communities, which are freestanding assisted living communities specially designed for residents with Alzheimer's disease and other dementias requiring the attention, personal care and services needed to help cognitively impaired residents maintain a higher quality of life. Our memory care communities have from 14 to 69 beds and some are part of a campus setting which includes a freestanding assisted living community.

All residents at our assisted living and memory care communities receive the basic care level, which includes ongoing health assessments, three meals per day and snacks, coordination of special diets planned by a registered dietitian, assistance with coordination of physician care, social and recreational activities, housekeeping and personal laundry services. In some locations we offer our residents exercise programs and programs designed to address issues associated with early stages of Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia. In addition, we offer at additional cost, higher levels of personal care services to residents at these communities who are very physically frail or experiencing early stages of Alzheimer's disease or other dementia and who require more frequent or intensive physical assistance or increased personal care and supervision due to cognitive impairments.

As a result of their progressive decline in cognitive abilities, residents at our memory care communities typically require higher levels of personal care and services and therefore pay higher monthly service fees. Specialized services include assistance with ADLs, behavior management and an activities program, the goal of which is to provide a normalized environment that supports residents' remaining functional abilities. Whenever possible, residents participate in all facets of daily life at the residence, such as assisting with meals, laundry and housekeeping.

Assisted living communities (including memory care communities) that we own or lease are included in our Assisted Living segment, and assisted living communities for which we provide management services for third parties or unconsolidated ventures in which we have an ownership interest are included in our Management Services segment. As of December 31, 2015, our Assisted Living segment consisted of 820 assisted living communities with 53,504 units, representing 49.3% of our total senior living capacity, and 95 assisted living communities with 9,063 units were included in our Management Services segment, representing 8.4% of our total senior living capacity. In the aggregate, these assisted living communities represented 57.7% of our total senior living capacity.

As of December 31, 2015, we provide memory care services at 571 of our communities, aggregating 14,077 memory care units across our segments. These communities include 131 freestanding memory care communities with 5,063 units included in our Assisted Living segment.

CCRCs. Our CCRCs are large communities that offer a variety of living arrangements and services to accommodate all levels of physical ability and health. Most of our CCRCs have independent living, assisted living and skilled nursing available on one campus or within the immediate market, and some also include memory care/Alzheimer's service areas.

CCRCs that we own or lease are included in our CCRCs - Rental segment, and CCRCs for which we provide management services for third parties or unconsolidated ventures in which we have an ownership interest are included in our Management Services segment. As of December 31, 2015, our CCRCs - Rental segment included 44 CCRCs with 10,423 units, representing 9.6% of our total senior living capacity, and 34 CCRCs with 10,944 units were included in our management services segment, representing 10.1% of our total senior living capacity. In the aggregate, these CCRCs represented 19.7% of our total senior living capacity.

Twenty of our CCRCs allow for residents in the independent living apartment units to pay a one-time upfront entrance fee, typically $100,000 to $400,000 or more, which is partially refundable in certain circumstances. We refer to these communities as entry fee CCRCs. The amount of the entrance fee varies depending upon the type and size of the dwelling unit, the type of contract plan selected, whether the contract contains a lifecare benefit (i.e., a healthcare discount) for the resident, the amount and timing of the refund, and other variables. These agreements are subject to regulations in various states. In addition to their initial entrance fee, residents under all of our entrance fee agreements also pay a monthly service fee, which entitles them to the use of certain amenities and services. Since entrance fees are paid upon initial occupancy, the monthly fees are generally less than fees at a comparable rental community. The refundable portion of a resident's entrance fee is generally refundable within a certain number of months or days following contract termination or upon the sale of the unit, or in some agreements, upon the resale of a comparable unit or 12 months after the resident vacates the unit. In addition, some entrance fee agreements entitle the resident to a refund of the original entrance fee paid plus a percentage of the appreciation of the unit upon resale. As of December 31, 2015, our CCRCs - Rental segment included three entry fee CCRCs with 1,172 units, representing 0.6% of our total senior living capacity, and 17 entry fee CCRCs with 8,152 units were included in our Management Services segment, representing 7.5% of our total senior living capacity.

Brookdale Ancillary Services. Through our ancillary services programs, we currently provide home health, therapy and other ancillary services, as well as education and wellness programs, to residents of many of our communities. These programs are focused on wellness and physical fitness to allow residents to maintain maximum independence. These services provide many continuing education opportunities for residents and their families through health fairs, seminars, and other consultative interactions. The therapy services we provide include physical, occupational, speech and other specialized therapy and home health services. The home health services we provide include skilled nursing, physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech language pathology, home health aide services, and social services as needed. In addition to providing these in-house therapy and wellness services at our communities, we also provide these services to other senior living communities that we do not own or operate and to seniors living outside of our communities. These services may be reimbursed under the Medicare program or paid directly by residents from private pay sources and revenues are recognized as services are provided. We have also begun offering hospice services in certain locations. We believe that our ancillary services offerings are unique in the senior living industry and that we have a significant advantage over our competitors with respect to providing ancillary services because of our established infrastructure and experience.

Our Brookdale Ancillary Services segment includes the outpatient therapy, home health and hospice services provided to residents of many of our communities, to other senior living communities that we do not own or operate and to seniors living outside of our communities. The Brookdale Ancillary Services segment does not include the inpatient therapy services provided in our skilled nursing units, which are included in the CCRCs - Rental segment.

Management Services. We operate certain of our communities pursuant to management agreements. In some of these cases, the community is owned by third parties and, in other cases, the community is owned in an unconsolidated venture in which we have an ownership interest. Under the management agreements for these communities, we receive management fees as well as reimbursed expenses, which represent the reimbursement of certain expenses we incur on behalf of the owners.

As of December 31, 2015, the 164 communities and 27,353 units in our Management Services segment represented 25.3% of our total senior living capacity. As of that date, we operated 22 communities, representing 2,211 units, for third parties and 142 communities, representing 25,142 units, for unconsolidated ventures in which we have an ownership interest. As of December 31, 2015, these communities consisted of 35 retirement center communities, 95 assisted living communities and 34 CCRCs.

Competitive Strengths

We believe our nationwide network of senior living communities is well positioned to benefit from the growth and increasing demand in the industry. Some of our most significant competitive strengths are:

&#61623;&#8226;

Skilled management team with extensive experience. &#160; Our senior management team has extensive experience in acquiring, operating and managing a broad range of senior living assets, including experience in the senior living, healthcare and real estate industries.

&#61623;&#8226;

Geographically diverse, high-quality, purpose-built communities. Our acquisition of Emeritus expanded our unit capacity by more than two-thirds, provided entry into 10 new states and significantly increased our presence in high-population states, especially in the west and northeast. As of December 31, 2015, we are the largest operator of senior living communities in the United States based on total capacity, with 1,123 communities in 47 states and the ability to serve approximately 108,000 residents.

&#61623;&#8226;

Ability to provide a broad spectrum of care. &#160; Given our diverse mix of retirement centers, assisted living communities and CCRCs, we are able to meet a wide range of our customers' needs. We believe that we are one of the few companies in the senior living industry with this capability and the only company that does so at scale on a national basis. We believe that our multiple product offerings create marketing synergies and cross-selling opportunities.

&#61623;&#8226;

The size of our business allows us to realize cost and operating efficiencies. &#160; We are the largest operator of senior living communities in the United States based on total capacity. The size of our business allows us to realize cost savings and economies of scale in the procurement of goods and services. Our scale also allows us to achieve increased efficiencies with respect to various corporate functions. We intend to utilize our expertise and size to capitalize on economies of scale resulting from our national platform. Our geographic footprint and centralized infrastructure provide us with a significant operational advantage over local and regional operators of senior living communities. In connection with our formation transactions and our acquisitions, we negotiated new contracts for food, insurance and other goods and services. In addition, we have and will continue to consolidate corporate functions such as accounting, finance, human resources, legal, information technology and marketing.

&#61623;&#8226;

Significant experience in providing ancillary services. &#160; Through our ancillary services programs, we provide a range of education, wellness, therapy, home health and other ancillary services to residents of certain of our retirement centers, assisted living communities, and CCRCs. Having therapy clinics and home health agencies located in our senior living communities to provide needed services to our residents is a distinct competitive difference. We have significant experience in providing these ancillary services and expect to receive additional revenues as we expand our ancillary service offerings to additional communities and to seniors outside of our communities.

Segments

As of December 31, 2015, we had five reportable segments: Retirement Centers; Assisted Living; CCRCs &#8211; Rental; Brookdale Ancillary Services and Management Services. T hese segments were determined based on the way that our chief operating decision maker organizes our business activities for making operating decisions, assessing performance, developing strategy and allocating capital resources.

Operating results from our five business segments are discussed further in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" a nd Note 18 t o our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Operations

Operations Overview

We believe that successful senior living operators must effectively combine the expertise and business disciplines of housing, hospitality, health care, sales, marketing, dining, finance and real estate.

We continually review opportunities to expand the types of services we provide to our residents. We seek to increase our average monthly revenue per unit each year and seek to increase facility operating margins through a combination of the implementation of efficient operating procedures and the economies of scale associated with the size and number of our communities. Our operating procedures include securing national vendor contracts to obtain the lowest possible pricing for certain services such as food, energy and insurance, implementing effective budgeting and financial controls at each community, and establishing standardized training and operations procedures.

We have implemented intensive standards, policies and procedures and systems, including detailed staff manuals and training materials, which we believe have contributed to high levels of customer service. We have centralized accounting, finance and other operating functions in our support centers so that, consistent with our operating philosophy, community-based personnel can focus on resident care, family connections and efficient operations. We have established company-wide policies and procedures relating to, among other things: resident care; community design and community operations; billing and collections; accounts payable; finance and accounting; risk management; development of employee training materials and programs; marketing activities; the hiring and training of management and other community-based personnel; compliance with applicable local and state regulatory requirements; and implementation of our acquisition, development and leasing plans.

Consolidated Corporate Operations Support

We have developed a centralized infrastructure and services platform, which provides us with a significant operational advantage over local and regional operators of senior living communities. The size of our business also allows us to achieve increased efficiencies with respect to various corporate functions such as human resources, finance, accounting, legal, information technology and marketing. We are also able to realize cost efficiencies in the purchasing of food, supplies, insurance, benefits, and other goods and services. In addition, we have established centralized operations groups to support all of our product lines and communities in areas such as training, regulatory affairs, asset management, dining and procurement.

Since the closing of our acquisition of Emeritus, we have executed on our plans to integrate legacy Emeritus locations into our systems and infrastructure platform as rapidly as prudently possible. In 2015, we completed the final cutover waves of integration activities and have a common system and infrastructure platform in place. We will continue to reinforce and refine our operating model and certain processes during 2016.

Community Staffing and Training

Each community has an Executive Director responsible for the overall day-to-day operations of the community, including quality of care and service, social services and financial performance. Each Executive Director receives specialized training from us. In addition, a portion of each Executive Director's compensation is directly tied to the operating performance of the community and key care and service quality measures. We believe that the quality of our communities, coupled with our competitive compensation philosophy, has enabled us to attract high-quality, professional community Executive Directors.

Depending upon the size of the community, each Executive Director is supported by a community staff member who is directly responsible for day-to-day care of the residents and either community staff or regional support to oversee the community's sales, marketing and community outreach programs. Other key positions supporting each community may include individuals responsible for food service, healthcare services, therapy services, activities, housekeeping, and engineering.

We believe that quality of care and operating efficiency can be maximized by direct resident and staff contact. Employees involved in resident care, including the administrative staff, are trained in the support and care needs of the residents and emergency response techniques. We have adopted formal training and evaluation procedures to help ensure quality care for our residents. We have extensive policy and procedure manuals and hold frequent training sessions for management and staff at each site.

Quality Assurance

We maintain quality assurance programs at each of our communities through our corporate and regional staff. Our quality assurance programs are designed to achieve a high degree of resident and family member satisfaction with the care and services that we provide. Our quality control measures include, among other things, community inspections conducted by corporate staff on a regular basis. These inspections cover the appearance of the exterior and grounds; the appearance and cleanliness of the interior; the professionalism and friendliness of staff; quality of resident care (including assisted living services, nursing care, therapy and home health programs); the quality of activities and the dining program; observance of residents in their daily living activities; and compliance with government regulations. Our quality control measures also include the survey of residents and family members on a regular basis to monitor their perception of the quality of services provided to residents.

In order to foster a sense of community as well as to respond to residents' needs and desires, at many of our communities, we have established a resident council or other resident advisory committee that meets monthly with the Executive Director of the community. Separate resident committees also exist at many of these communities for food service, activities, marketing and hospitality. These committees promote resident involvement and satisfaction and enable community management to be more responsive to the residents' needs and desires.

Marketing and Sales

Our marketing strategy is intended to create awareness of our Brookdale brand, our communities, our products and our services among potential residents and their family members and among referral sources, including hospital discharge planners, physicians, clergy, area agencies for the elderly, skilled nursing facilities, home health agencies and social workers. Our marketing staff develops overall strategies for promoting our communities and monitors the success of our multi-layered marketing efforts, including outreach programs. In addition to direct contacts with prospective referral sources, we also rely on internet inquiries, contact centers, print advertising, e-mail and digital marketing, social media, direct mail, signage and special events, health fairs and community receptions. Certain resident referral programs have been established and promoted within the limitations of federal and state laws at many communities.

In order to mitigate the impact of weakness in certain housing markets and to accelerate move-ins, we have implemented several sales and marketing initiatives designed to increase entrance fee sales. These include the acceptance of short-term promissory notes in satisfaction of a resident's required entrance fee from certain pre-qualified, prospective residents who are waiting for their homes to sell. In addition, we have implemented the MyChoice program, which allows new and existing residents in certain communities the option to pay additional refundable entrance fee amounts in return for a reduced monthly service fee, thereby offering choices to residents desiring a more affordable ongoing monthly service fee.

Competition

The senior living industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous organizations that provide similar senior living alternatives, such as home health care agencies, community-based service programs, retirement communities, convalescent centers and other senior living providers. In addition, over the last several years there has been an increase in the construction of new senior housing assets. In general, regulatory and other barriers to competitive entry in the retirement center and assisted living sectors of the senior living industry are not substantial. Consequently, we may encounter competition that could limit our ability to attract residents or expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Our major publicly-traded competitors that operate senior living communities are Five Star Quality Care, Inc. and Capital Senior Living Corporation. Our major private competitors include Holiday Retirement, Life Care Services, LLC, and Sunrise Senior Living, LLC, as well as a large number of not-for-profit entities.

In recent years, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience competition in our efforts to acquire and operate senior living communities. Some of our present and potential senior living competitors have, or may obtain, greater financial resources than us and may have a lower cost of capital. In addition, several publicly-traded and non-traded real estate investment trusts, or REITs, have similar asset acquisition objectives as we do, along with greater financial resources and/or lower costs of capital than we are able to obtain. This may increase competition for acquisitions that would be suitable to us, making it more difficult for us to compete and successfully implement our growth strategy. Partially as a result of tax law changes enacted through RIDEA, we now compete more directly with the various publicly-traded healthcare REITs for the acquisition of senior housing properties. The largest three of these publicly-traded healthcare REITs measured on equity market capitalization include HCP, Inc., Ventas, Inc. and Welltower, Inc.

Customers

Our target retirement center resident s are senior citizens age 75 and older who desire or need a more supportive living environment. The average retirement center resident resides in a retirement center community for approximately 33 months. A number of our retirement center residents relocate to one of our communities in order to be in a metropolitan area that is closer to their adult children. 

Our target assisted living residents are predominantly senior citizens age 80 and older who require daily assistance with two or three ADLs. The average assisted living resident resides in an assisted living community for approximately 20 months. Residen ts typically enter an assisted living community due to a relatively immediate need for services that might have been triggered by a medical event or need.

Our target CCRC residents are senior citizens who are seeking a community that offers a variety of services and a continuum of care so that they can "age in place." These residents generally first enter the community as a resident of an independent living unit and may later move into an assisted living or skilled nursing area as their needs change.

We believe our combination of retirement center, assisted living and dementia care operating expertise and the broad base of customers that this enables us to target creates a unique opportunity for us to invest in a broad spectrum of assets in the senior living industry, including retirement center, assisted living, CCRC and skilled nursing communities.

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 53,000 full-time employees and approximately 29,000 part-time employees, of which 630 work in our Brentwood, Tennessee (a suburb of Nashville) headquarters office, 700 work in our Milwaukee, Wisconsin office and 1,030 work in our smaller regional support offices and a variety of field-based management positions. We currently consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

Government Regulation

The regulatory environment surrounding the senior living industry continues to intensify in the number and type of laws and regulations affecting it. In addition, federal, state and local officials are increasingly focusing their efforts on enforcement of these laws and regulations. This is particularly true for large for-profit, multi-community providers like us. Some of the laws and regulations that impact our industry include: state and local laws impacting licensure, protecting consumers against deceptive practices, and generally affecting the communities' management of property and equipment and how we otherwise conduct our operations, such as fire, health and safety laws and regulations and privacy laws; federal and state laws designed to protect Medicare and Medicaid, which mandate what are allowable costs, pricing, quality of services, quality of care, food service, resident rights (including abuse and neglect) and fraud; federal and state residents' rights statutes and regulations; Anti-Kickback and physicians referral ("Stark") laws; and safety and health standards set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local legislation or regulation. Changes in the regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Many senior living communities are also subject to regulation and licensing by state and local health and social service agencies and other regulatory authorities. Although requirements vary from state to state, these requirements may address, among others, the following: personnel education, training and records; community services, including administration of medication, assistance with self-administration of medication and the provision of nursing, home health and therapy services; staffing levels; monitoring of resident wellness; physical plant specifications; furnishing of resident units; food and housekeeping services; emergency evacuation plans; professional licensing and certification of staff prior to beginning employment; and resident rights and responsibilities, including in some states the right to receive health care services from providers of a resident's choice that are not our employees. In several of the states in which we operate or may operate, we are prohibited from providing certain higher levels of senior care services without first obtaining the appropriate licenses. In addition, in several of the states in which we operate or intend to operate, assisted living communities, home health agencies and/or skilled nursing facilities require a certificate of need before the community can be opened or the services at an existing community can be expanded. Senior living communities may also be subject to state and/or local building, zoning, fire and food service codes and must be in compliance with these local codes before licensing or certification may be granted. These laws and regulatory requirements could affect our ability to expand into new markets and to expand our services and communities in existing markets. In addition, if any of our presently licensed communities operates outside of its licensing authority, it may be subject to penalties, including closure of the community.

The intensified regulatory and enforcement environment impacts providers like us because of the increase in the number of inspections or surveys by governmental authorities and consequent citations for failure to comply with regulatory requirements. Unannounced surveys or inspections may occur annually or bi-annually, or following a regulator's receipt of a complaint about the community. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we receive deficiency reports from state regulatory bodies resulting from such inspections or surveys. Most inspection deficiencies are resolved through an agreed-to plan of corrective action relating to the community's operations, but the reviewing agency typically has the authority to take further action against a licensed or certified community, which could result in the imposition of fines, imposition of a provisional or conditional license, suspension or revocation of a license, suspension or denial of admissions, loss of certification as a provider under federal health care programs or imposition of other sanctions, including criminal penalties. Loss, suspension or modification of a license may also cause us to default under our loan or lease agreements and/or trigger cross-defaults. Sanctions may be taken against providers or facilities without regard to the providers' or facilities' history of compliance. We may also expend considerable resources to respond to federal and state investigations or other enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations. To date, none of the deficiency reports received by us has resulted in a suspension, fine or other disposition that has had a material adverse effect on our revenues. However, any future substantial failure to comply with any applicable legal and regulatory requirements could result in a material adverse effect to our business as a whole. In addition, states Attorneys General vigorously enforce consumer protection laws as those laws relate to the senior living industry. State Medicaid Fraud and Abuse Units may also investigate assisted living communities even if the community or any of its residents do not receive federal or state funds.

Regulation of the senior living industry is evolving at least partly because of the growing interests of a variety of advocacy organizations and political movements attempting to standardize regulations for certain segments of the industry, particularly assisted living. Our operations could suffer if future regulatory developments, such as federal assisted living laws and regulations, as well as mandatory increases in the scope and severity of deficiencies determined by survey or inspection officials or increase the number of citations that can result in civil or criminal penalties. Certain current state laws and regulations allow enforcement officials to make determinations on whether the care provided by one or more of our communities exceeds the level of care for which the community is licensed. A finding that a community is delivering care beyond its license might result in the immediate transfer and discharge of residents, which may create market instability and other adverse consequences. Furthermore, certain states may allow citations in one community to impact other communities in the state. Revocation or suspension of a license, or a citation, at a given community could therefore impact our ability to obtain new licenses or to renew existing licenses at other communities, which may also cause us to be in default under our loan or lease agreements and trigger cross-defaults or may also trigger defaults under certain of our credit agreements, or adversely affect our ability to operate and/or obtain financing in the future. If a state were to find that one community's citation will impact another of our communities, this will also increase costs and result in increased surveillance by the state survey agency. If regulatory requirements increase, whether through enactment of new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing rules, including increased enforcement brought about by advocacy groups, in addition to federal and state regulators, our operations could be adversely affected. In addition, any adverse finding by survey and inspection officials may serve as the basis for false claims lawsuits by private plaintiffs and may lead to investigations under federal and state laws, which may result in civil and/or criminal penalties against the community or individual.

There are various extremely complex federal and state laws governing a wide array of referrals, relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraud by health care providers, including those in the senior living industry, and governmental agencies are devoting increasing attention and resources to such anti-fraud initiatives. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 expanded the penalties for health care fraud. In addition, with respect to our participation in federal health care reimbursement programs, the government or private individuals acting on behalf of the government may bring an action under the False Claims Act alleging that a health care provider has defrauded the government and seek treble damages for false claims and the payment of additional monetary civil penalties. Recently, other health care providers have faced enforcement action under the False Claims Act. The False Claims Act allows a private individual with knowledge of fraud to bring a claim on behalf of the federal government and earn a percentage of the federal government's recovery. Because of these incentives, so-called "whistleblower" suits have become more frequent. Also, if any of our communities exceeds its level of care, we may be subject to private lawsuits alleging "transfer trauma" by residents. Such allegations could also lead to investigations by enforcement officials, which could result in penalties, including the closure of communities. The violation of any of these regulations may result in the imposition of fines or other penalties that could jeopardize our business.

Additionally, we operate communities that participate in federal and/or state health care reimbursement programs, including state Medicaid waiver programs for assisted living communities, the Medicare skilled nursing facility benefit program and other healthcare programs such as therapy and home health services, or other federal and/or state health care programs. Consequently, we are subject to federal and state laws that prohibit anyone from presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for reimbursement which are false, fraudulent or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Similar state laws vary from state to state and we cannot be sure that these laws will be interpreted consistently or in keeping with past practices. Violation of any of these laws can result in loss of licensure, claims for recoupment, civil or criminal penalties and exclusion of health care providers or suppliers from furnishing covered items or services to beneficiaries of the applicable federal and/or state health care reimbursement program. Loss of licensure may also cause us to default under our leases and loan agreements and/or trigger cross-defaults.

We are also subject to certain federal and state laws that regulate financial arrangements by health care providers, such as the Federal Anti-Kickback Law, the Stark laws and certain state referral laws. The Federal Anti-Kickback Law makes it unlawful for any person to offer or pay (or to solicit or receive) "any remuneration ... directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind" for referring or recommending for purchase any item or service which is eligible for payment under the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. Authorities have interpreted this statute very broadly to apply to many practices and relationships between health care providers and sources of patient referral. If we were to violate the Federal Anti-Kickback Law, we may face criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including fines and possible exclusion from government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, which may also cause us to default under our leases and loan agreements and/or trigger cross-defaults. Adverse consequences may also result if we violate federal Stark laws related to certain Medicare and Medicaid physician referrals. While we endeavor to comply with all laws that regulate the licensure and operation of our senior living communities, it is difficult to predict how our revenues could be affected if we were subject to an action alleging such violations. We are also subject to federal and state laws designed to protect the confidentiality of patient health information. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, has issued rules pursuant to HIPAA relating to the privacy of such information. Rules that became effective April 14, 2003 govern our use and disclosure of health information at certain HIPAA covered communities. We established procedures to comply with HIPAA privacy requirements at these communities. We were required to be in compliance with the HIPAA rule establishing administrative, physical and technical security standards for health information by April 2005. To the best of our knowledge, we are in compliance with these rules.

Environmental Matters

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, such as us, may be held liable in certain circumstances for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, including, among others, petroleum and materials containing asbestos, that could be located on, in, at or under a property, regardless of how such materials came to be located there. Additionally, such an owner or operator of real property may incur costs relating to the release of hazardous or toxic substances, including government fines and payments for personal injuries or damage to adjacent property. The cost of any required investigation, remediation, removal, mitigation, compliance, fines or personal or property damages and our liability therefore could exceed the property's value and/or our assets' value. In addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate the damage caused by such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell such property, to attract additional residents and retain existing residents, to borrow using such property as collateral or to develop or redevelop such property. In addition, such laws impose liability for investigation, remediation, removal and mitigation costs on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at third-party sites. Such laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of such substances as well as without regard to whether such release or disposal was in compliance with law at the time it occurred. Moreover, the imposition of such liability upon us could be joint and several, which means we could be required to pay for the cost of cleaning up contamination caused by others who have become insolvent or otherwise judgment proof.

We do not believe that we have incurred such liabilities that would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state and local environmental laws, including those relating to: the handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of medical waste products generated at our communities; identification and warning of the presence of asbestos-containing materials in buildings, as well as removal of such materials; the presence of other substances in the indoor environment; and protection of the environment and natural resources in connection with development or construction of our properties.

Some of our communities generate infectious or other hazardous medical waste due to the illness or physical condition of the residents, including, for example, blood-contaminated bandages, swabs and other medical waste products and incontinence products of those residents diagnosed with an infectious disease. The management of infectious medical waste, including its handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal, is subject to regulation under various federal, state and local environmental laws. These environmental laws set forth the management requirements for such waste, as well as related permit, record-keeping, notice and reporting obligations. Each of our communities has an agreement with a waste management company for the proper disposal of all infectious medical waste. The use of such waste management companies does not immunize us from alleged violations of such medical waste laws for operations for which we are responsible even if carried out by such waste management companies, nor does it immunize us from third-party claims for the cost to cleanup disposal sites at which such wastes have been disposed. Any finding that we are not in compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition.

Federal regulations require building owners and those exercising control over a building's management to identify and warn, via signs and labels, their employees and certain other employers operating in the building of potential hazards posed by workplace exposure to installed asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials in their buildings. The regulations also set forth employee training, record-keeping requirements and sampling protocols pertaining to asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials. Significant fines can be assessed for violation of these regulations. Building owners and those exercising control over a building's management may be subject to an increased risk of personal injury lawsuits by workers and others exposed to asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials. The regulations may affect the value of a building containing asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials in which we have invested. Federal, state and local laws and regulations also govern the removal, encapsulation, disturbance, handling and/or disposal of asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials when such materials are in poor condition or in the event of construction, remodeling, renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose liability for improper handling or a release to the environment of asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials and may provide for fines to, and for third parties to seek recovery from, owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or improper work exposure associated with asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials.

The presence of mold, lead-based paint, contaminants in drinking water, radon and/or other substances at any of the communities we own or may acquire may lead to the incurrence of costs for remediation, mitigation or the implementation of an operations and maintenance plan. Furthermore, the presence of mold, lead-based paint, contaminants in drinking water, radon and/or other substances at any of the communities we own or may acquire may present a risk that third parties will seek recovery from the owners, operators or tenants of such properties for personal injury or property damage. In some circumstances, areas affected by mold may be unusable for periods of time for repairs, and even after successful remediation, the known prior presence of extensive mold could adversely affect the ability of a community to retain or attract residents and could adversely affect a community's market value.

We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws.

We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local environmental regulation and legislation. Changes in the environmental regulatory framework (including legislative or regulatory efforts designed to address climate change, such as the proposed "cap and trade" legislation) could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, because environmental laws vary from state to state, expansion of our operations to states where we do not currently operate may subject us to additional restrictions on the manner in which we operate our communities.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, are available free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, at the following address: www.brookdale.com. The information within, or that can be accessed through, the web site is not part of this report.

We have posted our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of our Audit, Compensation, Investment and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees on our web site at www.brookdale.com. In addition, our Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers, which applies to our Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, Treasurer and Controller is also available on our website. Our corporate governance materials are available in print free of charge to any stockholder upon request to our Corporate Secretary, Brookdale Senior Living Inc., 111 Westwood Place, Suite 400, Brentwood, Tennessee 37027.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 12, 2016:

Name

&#160; Age

&#160; Position

T. Andrew Smith

&#160; 55

&#160; Chief Executive Officer and Director

Mark W. Ohlendorf

&#160; 55

&#160; President

Labeed S. Diab

&#160; 46

&#160; Chief Operating Officer

Lucinda M. Baier

&#160; 51

&#160; Chief Financial Officer

Bryan D. Richardson

&#160; 57

&#160; Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer

Glenn O. Maul

&#160; 61

&#160; Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer

Kristin A. Ferge

&#160; 42

&#160; Executive Vice President

George T. Hicks

&#160; 58

&#160; Executive Vice President &#8211; Finance and Treasurer

H. Todd Kaestner

&#160; 60

&#160; Executive Vice President &#8211; Corporate Development

Mary Sue Patchett

&#160; 53

&#160; Executive Vice President &#8211; Community and Field Operations

T. Andrew Smith has served as our Chief Executive Officer since February 2013 and a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014. He has over 25 years of experience in seniors housing, mergers and acquisitions, real estate and capital markets transactions, corporate finance and healthcare. From October 2006 to February 2013, Mr. Smith served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. In addition to his role in managing our legal affairs, Mr. Smith was responsible for the management and oversight of our corporate development functions (including acquisitions and expansion and development activity); corporate finance (including capital structure, debt and lease transactions and lender/lessor relations); strategic planning; and risk management. Prior to joining Brookdale, Mr. Smith served as a member of Bass, Berry &#38; Sims PLC's corporate and securities group and as chair of the firm's healthcare group. During his tenure at Bass, Berry &#38; Sims (1985 to 2006), Mr. Smith represented American Retirement Corporation as outside General Counsel. He currently serves as a member of the board of directors of the Nashville Health Care Council and the National Investment Center for the Seniors Housing &#38; Care Industry (NIC) and as a member of the executive board of the American Seniors Housing Association (ASHA).

Mark W. Ohlendorf has served as our President since June 2013. He previously served as our Chief Financial Officer from March 2007 until November 2015 and Co-President from August 2005 to May 2013. Mr. Ohlendorf previously served as Chief Executive Officer and President of Alterra from December 2003 until August 2005. From January 2003 through December 2003, Mr. Ohlendorf served as Chief Financial Officer and President of Alterra, and from 1999 through 2002 he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Alterra. Mr. Ohlendorf has over 30 years of experience in the health care and long-term care industries, having held leadership positions with such companies as Sterling House Corporation, Vitas Healthcare Corporation and Horizon/CMS Healthcare Corporation. He is on the board of directors of and is past chairman of the board of directors of Argentum (formerly known as the Assisted Living Federation of America).

Labeed S. Diab joined Brookdale as Chief Operating Officer in November 2015. Prior to joining Brookdale, Mr. Diab served in operational leadership roles for the Walmart US division of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. since 2009, most recently serving as its President of Health and Wellness since 2014, its President of Midwest Division from 2011 to 2014, and its Vice President and General Manager from 2009 to 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Diab served as Regional Vice President of Aramark's Health Care Division from 2006 to 2009 and as Regional Vice President for Rite Aid Corporation from 2003 to 2006. Mr. Diab began his career as a Pharmacy Manager with American Stores Company and later in regional roles with CVS Caremark. Mr. Diab is a Registered Pharmacist.

Lucinda M. Baier joined Brookdale as Chief Financial Officer in December 2015. Ms. Baier has more than fifteen years of executive leadership experience in accounting, taxation, finance and treasury functions, having most recently served as Chief Financial Officer of Navigant Consulting, Inc., a specialized global expert services firm, since March 2013 and its Executive Vice President since February 2013. Prior to that, she was Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer of Central Parking System, Inc., a leading firm in parking management and marketing, from August 2011 to October 2012, having previously served as its Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2010. Ms. Baier served from July 2008 to February 2010 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Movie Gallery, Inc., and served from 2006 until July 2008 as Chief Financial Officer of World Kitchen, LLC. In addition, Ms. Baier serves as a member of the Board of Directors and Audit Committee of The Bon-Ton Stores, Inc., one of the largest regional department store operators in the United States. Ms. Baier is a Certified Public Accountant.

Bryan D. Richardson became our Executive Vice President in July 2006 and our Chief Administrative Officer in January 2008. Mr. Richardson also served as our Chief Accounting Officer from September 2006 through April 2008. Previously, Mr. Richardson served as Executive Vice President &#8211; Finance and Chief Financial Officer of ARC since April 2003 and previously served as its Senior Vice President &#8211; Finance since April 2000. Mr. Richardson was formerly with a national graphic arts company from 1984 to 1999 serving in various capacities, including Senior Vice President of Finance of a digital prepress division from May 1994 to October 1999, and Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer from 1989 to 1994. Mr. Richardson was previously with the national public accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Glenn O. Maul became our Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer in March 2013. Previously, Mr. Maul served as Senior Vice President &#8211; Human Resources since joining Brookdale in April 2006. Prior to joining Brookdale, he served as Vice President &#8211; Human Resources for Sunrise Senior Living. While Mr. Maul has spent most of his career focusing on human resources, his early career included roles in finance and operations. Mr. Maul is certified as a Senior Professional in Human Resources (SPHR).

Kristin A. Ferge became our Executive Vice President in August 2005. She previously served as our Chief Accounting Officer from July 2014 through January 2016, our Treasurer from August 2005 through January 2016, and as our Chief Administrative Officer from March 2007 through December 2007. Ms. Ferge also previously served as Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Alterra from December 2003 until August 2005. From April 2000 through December 2003, Ms. Ferge served as Alterra's Vice President of Finance and Treasurer. Prior to joining Alterra, she worked in the audit division of KPMG LLP. Ms. Ferge is a certified public accountant.

George T. Hicks became our Executive Vice President &#8211; Finance in July 2006 and our Treasurer in January 2016. Prior to July 2006, Mr. Hicks served as Executive Vice President &#8211; Finance and Internal Audit, Secretary and Treasurer of ARC since September 1993. Mr. Hicks had served in various capacities for ARC's predecessors since 1985, including Chief Financial Officer from September 1993 to April 2003 and Vice President &#8211; Finance and Treasurer from November 1989 to September 1993.

H. Todd Kaestner became our Executive Vice President &#8211; Corporate Development in July 2006. Previously, Mr. Kaestner served as Executive Vice President &#8211; Corporate Development of ARC since September 1993. Mr. Kaestner served in various capacities for ARC's predecessors since 1985, including Vice President &#8211; Development from 1988 to 1993 and Chief Financial Officer from 1985 to 1988.

Mary Sue Patchett became our Executive Vice President &#8211; Community and Field Operations in November 2015 after having served as Division President since February 2013 and as Divisional Vice President since joining Brookdale in September 2011 in connection with our Horizon Bay acquisition. Ms. Patchett has over 30 years of senior care and housing experience serving in leadership roles. Previously, Ms. Patchett served as Chief Operating Officer of Horizon Bay from January 2011 through August 2011 and as Senior Vice President of Operations from March 2008 through December 2011. Prior to joining Horizon Bay, she was President and owner of Patchett &#38; Associates, Inc., a management consulting firm for senior housing and other healthcare companies, from 2005 until March 2008. Ms. Patchett had previously served as Divisional Vice President for Alterra for over six years and started in senior living with nine years in numerous leadership positions at Sunrise Senior Living. Ms. Patchett has served on numerous industry boards and is serving on the board of Florida Assisted Living Federation of America as its past chair.

