 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL 

As of February 22, 2016, we owned and operated 172 restaurants located in the 22 states of Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Nevada, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Washington. Each of our restaurants is operated either as a BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewery &#174; , a BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewhouse &#174; , a BJ&#146;s Pizza &#38; Grill &#174; , or a BJ&#146;s Grill &#174; restaurant. Our menu features BJ&#146;s award-winning, signature deep-dish pizza, our proprietary craft beers and other beers, as well as a wide selection of appetizers, entr&#233;es, pastas, sandwiches, specialty salads and desserts, including our Pizookie &#174; dessert. Our proprietary craft beer is produced at several of our BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewery &#174; locations as well as by independent third party brewers using our proprietary recipes. Our BJ&#146;s Pizza &#38; Grill &#174; restaurants are smaller format, full-service restaurants relative to our BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewhouse &#174; and BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewery &#174; locations and reflect the original format of the BJ&#146;s restaurant concept that was first introduced in 1978. Currently, the BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewhouse &#174; format represents our primary future expansion vehicle. Our BJ&#146;s Grill &#174; restaurant is a slightly smaller footprint restaurant, compared to our BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewhouse &#174; format, featuring all the amenities of our Brewhouse locations. 

The first BJ&#146;s restaurant opened in 1978 in Orange County, California, featuring Chicago style deep-dish pizza with a unique California twist. Over the years we expanded the BJ&#146;s concept from its beginnings as a small pizzeria to a full service, high energy casual dining restaurant with a broad menu including our BJ&#146;s award-winning, signature deep-dish pizza, as well as appetizers, entr&#233;es, pastas, burgers and sandwiches, specialty salads and desserts, including our made to order, warm pizza cookie dessert, the Pizookie &#174; . 

&#160; 

In 1996, we introduced our proprietary craft beers when we opened our first BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewery &#174; in Brea, California. Today all of our restaurants feature our award-winning, proprietary craft beers, which we believe differentiates us from many other restaurant concepts, and showcases the quality and care of the ingredients we use at BJ&#146;s. Our high-quality, craft beers further distinguish BJ&#146;s from many other restaurant concepts by complementing our signature deep-dish pizza and other menu items. Our beers have earned over 150 medals at different beer festivals and events, including 32 medals at the Great American Beer Festival. We also offer as many as 30 &#147;guest&#148; domestic and imported craft beers on tap, in addition to a selection of bottled beers in the majority of our restaurants. Our wide and unique beer offerings are intended to enhance BJ&#146;s competitive positioning as a leading retailer of beer in the casual dining segment of the restaurant industry. 

We compete in the casual dining segment of the restaurant industry, which is a large, highly fragmented segment with estimated annual sales in the $100+ billion range. The casual dining segment of the restaurant industry has become a fairly mature segment of the restaurant industry. According to some industry analysts and observers, the annual rate of sales growth for the segment has been gradually decreasing as a result of increased competition from more innovative quick-service and &#147;fast casual&#148; restaurant concepts and other food-away-from-home retailers, a leveling off of certain favorable demographic trends (the number of two wage-earner households, etc.); and a perceived over-supply of casual dining restaurants compared to demand. We believe that, in addition to these factors, the segment has suffered from low levels of innovation and a general reduction in the overall quality and differentiation of many of the larger, more mature mass market casual dining chains that collectively operate several thousand commoditized restaurants. 

In contrast to our mass market casual competitors, we believe that the BJ&#146;s restaurant concept offers consumers a higher quality, more contemporary and approachable &#147;casual plus&#148; (or &#147;premium casual&#148; or &#147;polished casual&#148;) dining experience. The term &#147;casual plus&#148; typically refers to a competitive positioning that has greater quality and differentiation when compared to the more mature, mass market casual dining concepts with average customer checks of $11.00 to $18.00, but not necessarily as extensive as the &#147;upscale casual&#148; concepts that typically have average customer checks well in excess of $18.00. Accordingly, our primary business objective is to continue our national expansion program as a &#147;casual plus&#148; restaurant company and attempt to capture additional market share in the segment over time. Additionally, we continue to evolve our existing restaurant base by introducing a series of initiatives to drive profitable sales and traffic growth while continuously improving the customer dining experience. 

Our Internet address is http://www.bjsrestaurants.com . Electronic copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K are available, free of charge, by visiting the &#147;Investor Relations&#148; section of our website at http://www.bjsrestaurants.com . These reports are posted as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with the SEC. We caution that the information on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. 

THE BJ&#146;s RESTAURANT CONCEPT AND MENU 

Our primary growth objective is to expand the BJ&#146;s &#147;casual plus&#148; restaurant concept nationwide and to consistently deliver the BJ&#146;s dining experience at the &#147;BJ&#146;s Gold Standard of Operational Excellence&#148; by providing a genuine commitment to passionately connect with every customer, on every visit, through the flawless and relentless execution of every detail during every shift &#150; to create and keep fanatical fans of BJ&#146;s concept and brand. We believe that by delivering upon this commitment to our customers, we should have the best opportunity to generate significant repeat business and capture additional market share in the casual dining segment of the restaurant industry. To achieve these objectives, we plan to focus on the opening of additional BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewhouse &#174; format restaurants in new and existing markets in a carefully controlled manner. 

Our signature menu offering is our deep-dish pizza, which was introduced in 1978. Our unique version of deep-dish pizza is unusually light, with a crispy, flavorful, bakery-type crust. Our pizza is topped with high-quality meats, fresh vegetables and a blend of five cheeses. During 2015, total pizza sales represented approximately 14% of our total restaurant sales. 

&#160; 

In addition to pizza, we have a broad menu featuring appetizers, specialty salads, soups, pastas, sandwiches, entr&#233;es and desserts. All of our menu items are prepared to order using high-quality ingredients. This broad menu, which we continually evolve, is an important factor in our differentiation from many other casual dining competitors. Over the last several years we have continued to evolve and differentiate our menu offerings, including a &#147;Snacks and Small Bites&#148; menu category, featuring small plate appetizers and salads and a lower calorie and &#147;better for you&#148; menu category called Enlightened Entr&#233;es &#174; . In fiscal 2015, we introduced over 20 new menu items including such customer favorites as our Enlightened Quinoa Bowls, Barbacoa Chicken, North Beach Mahi and Shrimp, Loaded Burgers and our new appetizers, including our Dry Rub Chicken Wings and Root Beer Glazed Ribs. Our menu entr&#233;es generally range in price from $7.25 to $24.50. We estimate that our average per-customer check in fiscal 2015, including beverages, was approximately $14.50. Our extensive menu and moderate pricing allow us to appeal to a variety of customers and dining occasions, including everyday lunch and dinner, special occasions, and late night business. 

Our large, flexible kitchens and bars allow us to adapt to changing consumer tastes and trends regarding food and beverages. Generally, we evaluate our menu offerings and prices two to three times a year, and we may add, delete or modify certain menu offerings at those times. Substantially all prospective menu and beverage offerings are initially evaluated by our internal menu development team and then tested in selected restaurants before any company-wide rollout. 

In addition to introducing new menu items, we consistently evaluate our existing menu and our current operating procedures to improve the quality of our offerings and customer service. As such, we continue to streamline many of our operating procedures and remove menu items in order to provide higher quality and more consistent food and beverage at a faster pace and provide additional future menu capacity for innovation in our restaurants. We believe that reducing unnecessary complexity will improve the consistency and speed of service in our restaurants which in return will enhance profitability and customer service. During fiscal 2014, we launched our BJ&#146;s mobile application in the iTunes and Android stores. The BJ&#146;s mobile application allows our customers to use their smartphones to add their names to our wait list before they reach the restaurant, order ahead for both dine-in and take-out, pay at the table and manage their loyalty accounts, among other things. In fiscal 2015, we enhanced our BJ&#146;s mobile application by adding group ordering, split payment, and both Apple Pay and Google Wallet payment options. We believe BJ&#146;s mobile application is just another way to help our customers enjoy BJ&#146;s restaurants while enhancing convenience and improving the speed of service. 

All of our restaurants feature our award-winning, proprietary freshly brewed (not pasteurized) craft beers, which we believe not only differentiates us from many other restaurant concepts, but also enhances our ability to provide greater quality and uniqueness to our customers. Approximately 9% of our total restaurant sales in fiscal 2015 consisted of our proprietary craft beers. We also offer as many as 30 &#147;guest&#148; domestic and imported craft beers on tap, in addition to a selection of bottled beers in the majority of our restaurants. Our broad and unique beer offerings are intended to enhance BJ&#146;s competitive positioning as a leading retailer of craft beer in the casual dining segment of the restaurant industry. We source our beers using a combination of our internal brewing operations located at our Restaurant and Brewery locations and our brewpub locations in Texas as well as through qualified independent third party brewers. During fiscal 2015, approximately 30% of our proprietary craft beer was produced at our internal brewing operations and then distributed to our other restaurants in a &#147;hub and spoke&#148; fashion. The remaining 70% of our proprietary craft beer was produced by other qualified independent third party brewers using our proprietary recipes. During fiscal 2015, our in-house brewing operations produced approximately 20,000 barrels of beer, and independent third party brewers produced approximately 45,000 barrels of beer. We also offer a selection of popular wines and spirits for sale in our restaurants. Alcoholic beverages, including our craft beers, represented approximately 22% of our total restaurant sales in fiscal 2015. 

RESTAURANT OPERATIONS 

Based on internal and publicly available data, we believe that our larger format brewhouse restaurants, on average, generate relatively high customer traffic per square foot compared to many other casual dining concepts. Therefore, we have implemented operational systems and procedures to support our desire to run our restaurants 

&#160; 

&#147;quality fast,&#148; particularly at peak dining periods, in order to effectively and efficiently process every customer transaction. The typical management team for a BJ&#146;s restaurant consists of a General Manager, an Executive Kitchen Manager and three to five other managers depending on the sales volume for each restaurant. The General Manager is responsible for the day-to-day operations of their restaurant, including hiring, training, and the development of personnel, as well as for sales and operating profit. The Executive Kitchen Manager is responsible for managing food quality and preparation, purchasing, inventories and kitchen labor costs. All of our restaurants prepare detailed monthly operating budgets, and compare their actual results to their budgets. We also measure the productivity and efficiency of our restaurant operations using a variety of qualitative and quantitative statistical indicators such as kitchen ticket times, actual versus theoretical food waste, items produced or sold per labor hour, controllable operating costs per customer served and other activity measures. 

New restaurant managers are required to successfully complete an 11-week comprehensive advanced management training program dedicated to all aspects of the operation of our restaurants including both restaurateuring and restaurant business-related topics. Our restaurant management training program is directed by our Senior Vice President of Operations Services and Talent Development and is closely monitored by our field supervision team. We continuously review our training curriculum for our hourly employees, new managers and our existing restaurant managers. 

The General Manager of each restaurant reports to a Director of Operations or an Area Vice President, who reports to a Regional Vice President or a Senior Regional Vice President. Additionally, we have Directors of Kitchen Operations who oversee the food quality and safety, kitchen efficiency and consistency in our restaurants and help educate, coach and develop our kitchen managers. Our Directors of Kitchen Operations report to the Vice President of Culinary and Kitchen Innovation. Our Regional and Senior Regional Vice Presidents report to our Executive Vice President of Operations who oversees all aspects of restaurant operations including kitchen and bar operations, restaurant facility management, new restaurant openings and the roll-out of key operational initiatives. 

We carefully select, train and supervise our restaurant-level employees (&#147;employees&#148;). Each restaurant typically employs an average of approximately 150 hourly employees, many of whom are paid at the statutory minimum wage level and work part-time. Our goal is to staff our restaurants with qualified, trained and enthusiastic employees who desire to be an integral part of BJ&#146;s fun, premium casual atmosphere and, at the same time, have the passion, intensity, work ethic and ability to execute our concept correctly and consistently on every shift. Prior experience in the restaurant industry is only one of the qualities management looks for in our restaurant employees. Enthusiasm, motivation, dependability, integrity, and the ability to interact well and connect with our customers and correctly execute our concept are some of the key qualities of BJ&#146;s management and employees. 

In order to maintain our high standards, all new restaurant hourly employees undergo formal training from certified Employee Instructors at each restaurant. Our Employee Instructors oversee the training by position for each new hourly employee and are also utilized to support our new restaurant openings. Our hourly team goes through a series of in-depth interactive and automated training for their respective positions. Our future growth and success are highly dependent upon our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified restaurant management and hourly employees. We attempt to accomplish this by providing our employees with opportunities for increased responsibilities and advancement as well as performance-driven incentives based on both financial and customer satisfaction metrics. We also support our employees by offering what we believe to be competitive wages and, for eligible employees, competitive fringe benefits (including a 401(k) plan with a company match, medical insurance and dining discounts). Additionally, our General Managers, Executive Kitchen Managers, Directors of Operations and Directors of Kitchen Operations are eligible to be selected to participate in our Gold Standard Stock Ownership Program that operates under the authority of our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (&#147;the Plan&#148;). This program is intended to be a long-term wealth building program, and provides for equity-based awards. Participation in the Plan requires extended service in good standing with us (generally three or five years). 

Excluding our BJ&#146;s Pizza &#38; Grill &#174; restaurants, our typical restaurant hours of operations are generally from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday. Our 

&#160; 

restaurants are typically open every day of the year except for Thanksgiving and Christmas. Most of our restaurants currently offer either in-house and/or third party delivery service. Additionally, all restaurants offer call-ahead seating, on-line ordering for customer pick-up and reservations for large parties. 

RESTAURANT SITE SELECTION AND EXPANSION OBJECTIVES 

Our BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewhouse &#174; format is currently expected to represent the vast majority of our planned new restaurant growth for the foreseeable future. We may also open new BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewery &#174; formats or brewpub locations (&#147;brewing restaurants&#148;) if on-site brewing operations is the only legally permissible way to offer our proprietary craft beer in certain highly-desirable locations. 

We seek to obtain high-quality, high-profile locations for our &#147;casual plus&#148; restaurants, which we believe have the ability to draw customers from a larger area than most &#147;mass market&#148; casual dining chain restaurants. The sizes of our restaurant trade areas vary from location to location, depending on a number of factors such as population density, retail traffic generators and geography. We believe the locations of our restaurants are critical to our long-term success. Accordingly, we devote significant time and resources to analyzing each prospective site. Since BJ&#146;s has proven that it can be successful in a variety of locations (urban or suburban shopping malls, retail strip centers, lifestyle centers, and entertainment centers &#150; either freestanding or in-line) and in a variety of income demographics, we can be highly selective and flexible in choosing suitable locations. In general, we currently prefer to open our restaurants at high-profile sites in mature trade areas with dense populations. Additionally, we generally target geographic regions that allow us to build multiple restaurants in those areas. This &#147;clustering&#148; approach can provide specific economic benefits including lower supply and distribution costs, improved marketing efficiencies, management supervision leverage and increased brand awareness. As with most growing retail and restaurant chain operations, there can be no assurance that sales transfers or &#147;cannibalization&#148; among our locations will not inadvertently occur or become more significant in the future as we gradually increase our presence in existing markets to maximize our competitive position and financial performance in each market. 

During fiscal 2015, we opened 16 new restaurants and closed an existing, smaller format &#147;Pizza &#38; Grill&#148; restaurant in La Jolla, California, when its lease expired, which we plan to relocate within the same trade area during fiscal 2016. As a result, we increased our total restaurant operating weeks by approximately 9% during the year. During fiscal 2016, we expect to open 18 to 19 new restaurants. Based on information currently available, we expect to open seven restaurants during the first half of fiscal 2016 and the remaining restaurants in the second half of the year. However, there are a number of risks associated with opening new restaurants and entering new markets, and it is difficult for us to precisely predict the timing of our new restaurant openings due to many factors that are outside of our control, including those identified under &#147;Risk Factors&#148; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We have signed leases, land purchase agreements or letters of intent for all of our potential restaurant openings for fiscal 2016. We are currently negotiating additional leases and/or real estate purchases for potential future locations for fiscal 2017 and 2018. We typically enter into operating leases for our locations for periods ranging from 10 to 20 years. We obtain lease extension options in most instances. Our restaurants can either be freestanding or in-line, and we may utilize both ground leases and build-to-suit leases. Our lease payment terms vary from lease to lease, but generally provide for the payment of both minimum base rent and contingent (percentage) rent based on restaurant sales. We are generally responsible for our proportionate share of common area maintenance (&#147;CAM&#148;), insurance, property tax and other occupancy-related expenses under our leases. We expend cash for leasehold improvements and furnishings, fixtures and equipment to build out our leased premises. We may also expend cash for permanent structural additions that we make to leased premises. 

We may have some of the costs to open a restaurant reimbursed to us by our landlords in the form of tenant improvement allowance incentives pursuant to agreed-upon terms in our leases. These allowances usually take the form of up-front cash, full or partial credits against minimum or percentage rents otherwise payable by us, or a combination thereof. Generally, a landlord will charge us additional rent for any allowances provided to us in 

&#160; 

this regard. We typically seek tenant improvement allowances of approximately $100 per square foot; however, not every location we develop into a restaurant will have such allowances available. During fiscal 2015, we opened 16 new restaurants, of which only nine restaurants received tenant improvement allowances. For these nine restaurants, our average tenant improvement allowance was approximately $150 per square foot. However, there can be no assurance that such allowances will be available for every potential location that we seek to develop into a new restaurant. We may also purchase the land underlying certain restaurant locations if it becomes available. However, it is not our current strategy to own a large number of land parcels that underlie our restaurants. In many cases, we subsequently enter into sale-leaseback arrangements for land parcels that we purchase. 

TARGETED NEW RESTAURANT ECONOMICS 

Commencing in the second half of fiscal 2014, we began building the vast majority of our new freestanding restaurants utilizing a new prototype design that costs approximately 20% less than our prior prototype. This new prototype is approximately 7,400 square feet with seating for as many as 225 customers with a targeted gross construction cost of approximately $4.0 million (before tenant improvement allowances, if any). However, our investment costs for new restaurants may vary significantly depending on a number of factors including, but not limited to their absolute sizes, layouts (custom or prototype), type of construction labor (union or non-union), local permitting requirements, the scope of any required site work, the cost of liquor and other licenses and hook-up fees, geographical location and facility type (brewing compared to brewhouse). 

In selecting sites for our restaurants, an important objective is to earn a suitable rate of return on our investment. However, this return often cannot be meaningfully measured until our restaurants reach their mature run-rate levels of sales and profitability. Maturation periods vary from restaurant to restaurant, but generally range from two to five years. As a result of our new prototype, we currently target a blended 30% return on our net cash invested to build a new restaurant, and a blended 25% return on total capital invested, which includes our net cash invested and a factor for the landlord&#146;s invested capital (based on a capitalized value of minimum rents to be paid to the landlord) for each group of new restaurants to be opened each year, measured once the restaurants reach their mature level of operations. Our targeted returns on invested capital in new restaurants may change in the future, depending upon competitive conditions in the casual dining segment, real estate market conditions, construction and operating cost trends and other factors both within and outside of our control. 

The aforementioned return-on-investment targets for our restaurant operations do not consider any allocations of opening costs, field supervision and corporate support expense, non-cash items such as depreciation, amortization and equity-related compensation expense, and income taxes, and do not represent a targeted return on an investment in our common stock. Additionally, the actual performance of any new restaurant location will usually differ from its originally targeted performance due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and such differences may be material. There can be no assurance that any new restaurant opened will have similar operating results to those of established restaurants. See &#147;Risk Factors&#148; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of certain risks relating to the development and operation of our restaurants. 

We generally target our new restaurants to achieve average annual sales at maturity of $4.5 million, and we generally target an average &#147;four wall&#148; estimated operating cash flow margin in the range of 18% to 20% at maturity, after all occupancy expenses. Not all new restaurants are expected to achieve our average return-on-investment targets. Some may be targeted to achieve higher returns and some may be targeted to achieve lower returns, based on factors specific to each restaurant location. These factors include, among other things, the level of overall consumer and market awareness for our brand in the location&#146;s general trade area; the specific occupancy structure and capital expenditure requirement for the location; the availability and amount of tenant improvement allowances; and the expected operating cost structure in the trade area (i.e., minimum hourly wages, local costs for fresh commodities such as produce, etc.). 

It is common in the casual dining industry for many new locations to initially open with sales volumes well in excess of their sustainable run-rate levels. This initial &#147;honeymoon&#148; sales period usually results from the energy 

&#160; 

and excitement generated by restaurant openings in new or remodeled lifestyle centers or retail projects that generate unusually high consumer traffic during grand openings. During the several months following the opening of new restaurants, consumer traffic and sales volumes gradually adjust downward to their expected, more predictable and sustainable run-rate levels. In fact, it may take up to 24 months for a new restaurant&#146;s sales to eventually settle at a more predictable and sustainable run-rate level. Every restaurant has its own individual opening sales pattern, and this pattern is difficult to predict. 

Additionally, all of our new restaurants usually require several months after opening, if not longer, to reach their targeted restaurant-level operating margin due to cost of sales and labor inefficiencies commonly associated with more complex casual dining restaurants. How quickly new restaurants achieve their targeted operating margin depends on many factors, including the level of consumer familiarity with our brand when we enter new markets, as well as the availability of experienced managers and employees, and the time required to negotiate and obtain favorable costs for certain fresh food items and other supplies from local suppliers. As a result, a significant number of restaurant openings in any single fiscal quarter, along with their associated opening expenses, could have a significant impact on our consolidated results of operations for that period. Therefore, our results of operations for any single fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of results expected for any other fiscal quarter nor for a full fiscal year. 

RESTAURANT OPENING EXPENSES 

Restaurant opening expenses (also referred to as &#147;preopening&#148; expenses) include incremental out-of-pocket costs that are directly related to the openings of new restaurants that may not be otherwise capitalized. As a result of the more complex operational nature of our &#147;casual plus&#148; restaurant concept compared to that of a typical casual dining chain restaurant, the preopening process for our new restaurants is more extensive, time consuming and costly. The preopening expense for one of our restaurants usually includes costs to compensate an average of six to eight restaurant management employees prior to opening; costs to recruit and train an average of 150 hourly restaurant employees; wages, travel and lodging costs for our opening training team and other support employees; costs for practice service activities; and straight-line minimum base rent during the construction and in-restaurant training period. Preopening expenses vary from location to location depending on a number of factors, including the proximity of our existing restaurants; the amount of rent expensed during the construction and in-restaurant training periods; the size and physical layout of each location; the number of management and hourly employees required to operate each restaurant; the relative difficulty of the restaurant staffing process; the cost of travel and lodging for different metropolitan areas; the timing of the restaurant opening; and the extent of unexpected delays, if any, in obtaining necessary licenses and permits to open the restaurant. The acquisition of our necessary operating licenses and permits may also be dependent on our landlords obtaining their licenses and permits, as well as fully completing their construction activities for the retail projects in which our leased premises are located. 

Our preopening expense for a prototypical BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewhouse &#174; location averaged approximately $0.4 million in fiscal 2015. Preopening expenses are typically higher for non-prototypical, &#147;custom footprint&#148; restaurants and for a restaurant&#146;s initial entry into a new market. During fiscal 2016, we plan to open our first restaurant in the states of North Carolina and New Jersey, where we expect to incur initially higher preopening costs. We usually incur the most significant portion of direct preopening costs within the two-month period immediately preceding and the month of a restaurant&#146;s opening. Preopening costs can fluctuate significantly from period to period, based on the number and timing of restaurant openings and the specific preopening costs incurred for each restaurant. We expense preopening costs as incurred in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (&#147;U.S. GAAP&#148;). 

BREWING OPERATIONS 

Sales of our proprietary craft beers represented approximately 9% of our total restaurant sales during fiscal 2015. In substantially all of our restaurants we also offer a wide selection of other popular craft beers on tap. Accordingly, total sales of beer represented approximately 12% of our total restaurant sales during fiscal 2015. 

&#160; 

Our internal brewing operations originated in 1996 with the opening of the first large format BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewery &#174; location in Brea, California, which included our first on-site brewing operation. The Brea BJ&#146;s Restaurant &#38; Brewery &#174; serviced not only that restaurant, but also several other California restaurants, using a &#147;hub and spoke&#148; production and distribution model that is legally permitted in California with certain limitations and restrictions. To supplement our internal brewing operations and as a result of the constraints imposed by various state &#147;tied-house&#148; laws, which regulate how alcoholic beverages are manufactured, distributed and marketed, we also utilize qualified independent third party brewers to produce our beer, using our proprietary recipes. In fiscal 2015, our internal breweries produced approximately 20,000 barrels of BJ&#146;s branded beer, and independent third party brewers produced approximately 45,000 barrels of BJ&#146;s branded beer. Our on-site breweries are typically staffed with a head brewer and an assistant brewer, who report to a brewing director. Production planning and quality control are monitored by our corporate brewing operations department which is led by our Senior Vice President of Brewing Operations. Additionally, our on-site and independent third party breweries periodically send out samples of each batch of BJ&#146;s branded beer to an independent laboratory for quality control testing purposes. 

As we continue to expand the BJ&#146;s restaurant concept, our requirement to produce our proprietary craft beer will continue to grow. As a result of that growing requirement, we will continue to evaluate the benefits and risks associated with brewing our beer internally or using qualified independent third party brewers, including factors such as availability of adequate production capacity, quality control procedures, federal and state laws, consistency of corporate and brand strategy, and the operating and capital costs associated with independent third party brewing versus the costs of brewing operations ownership. We currently believe that a combination of internal brewing and larger-scale independent third party brewing represents the optimal production method for our craft beers as we continue the expansion of our restaurants nationally. This approach allows us to get the benefits provided by brewing beer in larger batches, yet also provides us the flexibility to allow our brewing operations to focus on specialty, seasonal and research and development beers. We estimate our total proprietary craft beer requirement to be approximately 77,000 barrels for fiscal 2016, with approximately 62% of that requirement expected to be produced by independent third party brewers. 

After utilizing independent third party brewers and distributors to satisfy the vast majority of our proprietary craft beer requirements for our Texas restaurant operations since their inception in 2002, the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission took the position in 2013 that our historical brewing arrangement with respect to the supply of proprietary craft beer for our Texas restaurants was not in compliance with the provisions of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code and related rules and regulations. In January 2014, our subsidiary, Chicago Pizza Hospitality Holding, Inc., entered into a Settlement Agreement and Waiver with the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission pursuant to which we agreed to terminate the use of independent third party brewers to supply proprietary craft beer for our Texas restaurants and transition to production and supply of proprietary craft beer for our Texas restaurants through licensed brewpubs to be built, owned and operated by us. Therefore, on April 15, 2015, we opened two Texas brewpubs which now supply all of our proprietary craft beer to our Texas restaurants. We expect that the supply of proprietary craft beer in our Texas restaurants will be met through the operation of these two licensed brewpubs. 

We also produce our proprietary non-alcoholic craft sodas that are sold in our restaurants. Our craft sodas include root beer, cream, orange and black cherry soda. 

MARKETING AND ADVERTISING 

We believe that the most effective method, over the long run, to protect and enhance our customer visit frequency is to spend our marketing dollars on the plate and provide better food quality, service and facilities for our customers. However, due to the sluggish economy and the maturation of the casual dining segment of the restaurant industry, we have been prudently increasing our marketing expenditures to improve our awareness and brand equity in the markets that we operate. Our marketing spend generally takes the form of limited television for those markets in which we have enough restaurant penetration, as well as print, radio, digital and social media programs. We also utilize our loyalty program, BJ&#146;s Premier Rewards &#174; , to engage with our customers and monitor their frequency and purchasing behavior. 

&#160; 

Our marketing related expenditures were approximately 2.2%, 2.3%, and 2.2% of revenues for fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We expect our marketing expenditures in 2016 to continue to be between 2% to 3% of our revenues. However, depending on the current operating conditions for casual dining restaurants, we may decide to increase or decrease our marketing expenditures beyond our current expectations. 

CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES 

The BJ&#146;s Restaurants Foundation (the &#147;Foundation&#148;), a 501(c)(3) qualified non-profit charitable organization, is principally dedicated to supporting charities that benefit children&#146;s healthcare and education, with a primary focus on the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation (&#147;CFF&#148;). Our Chairman of the Board of Directors and two of our current executive officers currently serve on the Foundation&#146;s five-person Board of Directors. We also focus on the support of other local community and charitable causes, providing food and other resources for many worthwhile charitable events. Our commitment to supporting humanitarian causes is exemplified by our &#147;Cookies for Kids&#148; program, which supports CFF by donating a portion of our Pizookie &#174; sales to CFF. In addition, we arrange for the collection and donation of other funds to CFF through our restaurant preopening training programs. These programs combined with programs administered by the Foundation resulted in the donation of $0.4 million, $0.4 million, and $0.4 million to CFF during fiscal 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

The Foundation&#146;s Team Action to Support Communities (&#147;TASC Force&#148;) program recognizes and rewards the volunteer efforts of our restaurant employees across the country as they help to give back to the communities in which our restaurants do business. The TASC Force program received the prestigious Restaurant Neighbor Award in the large business category for 2009 from the National Restaurant Association. The TASC Force teams have helped fulfill the wishes of special needs kids, placed flags in a national cemetery by the graves of fallen soldiers, painted over unsightly graffiti and helped clean up beaches, parks and school grounds. In addition, the TASC Force teams have hosted blood drives, worked with Special Olympics, painted houses for elderly citizens, supported Habitat for Humanity, re-built playgrounds, worked at food banks, participated in fundraising runs and walkathons and delivered food to families in need. 

INFORMATION SYSTEMS 

We believe it is extremely important to provide our operators with state of the art technology so that they can better serve our customers and our employees in a more productive and efficient manner. These technologies include an automated kitchen display system (&#147;KDS&#148;) and bar display system (&#147;BDS&#148;), a web-based labor scheduling and productivity analyzer system, a theoretical food cost system and an automated front desk table management system. Each of these systems is integrated into our Point of Sale (&#147;POS&#148;) system which is used to record sales transactions, send menu orders to our kitchen, batch and transmit credit card transactions, record employee time clock information and produce a variety of management reports. Our KDS is an automated routing and cooking station balancing system which improves cooking station productivity, synchronizes order completion, provides valuable ticket time and cooking time data, and allows for more efficient levels of labor without sacrificing quality. Our BDS is an automated routing and beverage station balancing system which improves beverage station productivity by further leveraging our automation capability. Additionally, our web-based labor scheduling and productivity analyzer automates the labor scheduling for the managers and employees and produces a number of real-time key performance indicators and productivity reports for our management team, including controls and alerts to assist in complying with federal, state and local labor laws. Our theoretical food cost system and automated food prep system allow us to better measure our product yields and waste in our kitchens and help reduce kitchen errors and eliminate excessive waste. Our automated front desk table management system helps us to better optimize the overall seating efficiencies and &#147;table turns&#148; in our restaurants. We also utilize a centralized accounting and human resources system that collects data from our restaurants in order to produce operational reports and scorecard reporting as well as a data center technology services with cloud based technologies to provide scalability and bursting capabilities which support growth and enable rapid technology deployments. Our BJ&#146;s application, which allows our customers to use their smartphones to order ahead, add their name to our waitlist, pay at the table and manage their loyalty account, among other things, has been well received by our customers. In fiscal 2015, we implemented an electronic workflow solution 

&#160; 

to streamline and expedite the process of onboarding new team members, while insuring accuracy and facilitating the collection of richer data. Additionally, in fiscal 2015, we implemented a tablet-based inventory technology company wide. We are testing several other mobile management tools for our restaurant operators for performing tasks such as ordering and quality assurance auditing. We will be launching these additional systems company wide in fiscal 2016. We will continue to develop restaurant and support technologies that help improve financial management, cost control, the customer experience and employee effectiveness. 

SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 

Our supply chain department, working together with our culinary research and development team, is responsible for the selection and procurement of all of the food ingredients, beverages, products and supplies for our restaurants and brewing operations. Additionally, the supply chain department manages procurement agreements in the areas of energy, transportation and general corporate services. We seek to obtain the highest quality menu ingredients, products and supplies from reliable, approved sources at competitive prices. Ingredient specifications are mandated by the supply chain department in order to consistently maintain the highest quality ingredients and operational materials. We continually research and evaluate various food ingredients, products and supplies for consistency and quality and compare them to our detailed specifications. In order to maximize operating efficiencies between purchase and usage, each restaurant&#146;s Executive Kitchen Manager determines daily usage requirements for food ingredients, products and supplies for their restaurant and places all orders with vendors approved by our supply chain department. Our Executive Kitchen Managers also inspect our deliveries to ensure that the items received meet our quality specifications and negotiated prices. For many of our menu ingredients, we have arranged for acceptable alternative manufacturers, vendors, growers and shippers in order to reduce risk in our supply chain. 

Where economically feasible and possible, we attempt to negotiate contracts for key commodities used in the preparation of our food and beverage offerings, based on our expected requirements for each fiscal year. If our attempts are successful, most of our contracts typically range in duration from three to twelve months, and are generally set to expire at the end of calendar quarters (if quarterly in duration) or at the end of our fiscal year (if annual in duration). We attempt to contract for the majority of our more significant commodities (chicken, beef and wheat-based products) for various periods of time with the objective of stabilizing our costs and ensuring product availability. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so in light of the continuing volatility in the supplies and costs for many food commodities. Although we currently do not directly engage in future contracts or other financial risk management strategies with respect to potential commodity cost fluctuations, from time to time we may opportunistically request that our suppliers consider doing so to help minimize the impact of potential cost fluctuations. Suppliers will typically pass the costs of such strategies along to us, either directly or indirectly. 

We use Distribution Market Advantage (&#147;DMA&#148;), a consortium of large, regional food distributors located throughout the United States to deliver the majority of our food products to our restaurants. Our agreement with DMA is for five years expiring June 2017. Jacmar Foodservice Distribution, is a member of DMA and is the primary distributor of food and operating supplies for our California and Nevada restaurants. See &#147;Related Party Transactions.&#148; We have a non-exclusive contract with DMA on terms and conditions that we believe are consistent with those made available to similarly situated restaurant companies. 

Additionally, in 2006 we entered into an agreement with the largest nationwide foodservice distributor of fresh produce in the United States to service most of our restaurants and, where licensed, to distribute our proprietary craft beer to our restaurants. This distributor currently delivers our proprietary craft beer to approximately 50% of our restaurants. If our relationship with this distributor were discontinued, we would pursue alternative distributors. However, it may take some time to enter into replacement distribution arrangements, and our costs for distribution may increase as a result. 

The overall cost environment for food commodities can be extremely volatile due to domestic and worldwide agricultural, supply/demand and other macroeconomic factors that are outside of our control. Additionally, the availabilities and prices of food commodities can also be influenced by increased energy prices, animal-related 

&#160; 

diseases, natural disasters, increased geo-political tensions, the relationship of the dollar to other currencies, consumer demand both domestically and worldwide, and other factors. Virtually all commodities purchased and used in the restaurant industry, including proteins, grains, oils, dairy products, and energy have varying amounts of inherent price volatility associated with them. Additionally, during periods of rising costs for diesel fuel, our major distributors have the ability under our agreements to pass along fuel surcharges to us that are triggered when their cost per gallon of diesel fuel exceeds a certain assumed level. While we attempt to manage these factors by offering a diversified menu and by attempting to contract for our key commodities for extended periods of time whenever feasible and possible, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this respect due to the many factors that are outside of our control. 

COMPETITION 

The domestic restaurant industry is highly competitive and generally considered to be mature. There are a substantial number of casual dining chain restaurants, as well as fast casual and quick service restaurant chains and other food and beverage service operations, that compete both directly and indirectly with us in every respect, including food quality and service, the price-value relationship, beer quality and selection, atmosphere, suitable sites for new restaurants and for qualified personnel to operate our restaurants, among other factors. We also compete within each of our trade areas with national and regional restaurant chains and locally-owned restaurants. We also face growing competition as a result of the trend toward convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, particularly in the supermarket industry which offers &#147;convenient meals&#148; in the form of improved entr&#233;es and side dishes. 

Our restaurant concept is a relatively small &#147;varied menu&#148; casual dining competitor when compared to the mature &#147;mass market&#148; chains, with 62 of our restaurants currently located in one state - California. Our overall brand awareness and competitive presence in states outside of California is not as significant as that of our major casual dining chain competitors. Many competitors with similar concepts to ours have been in business longer than we have, have greater consumer awareness, and often have substantially greater capital, marketing and human resources. Accordingly, we must be prepared to constantly evolve and refine the critical elements of our restaurant concept over time to protect our longer-term competitiveness. Additionally, due to the continuing difficult operating environment for casual dining restaurants, coupled with continuing pressure on consumer spending for restaurant occasions, we expect that our larger chain restaurant competitors will continue to allocate even more resources to their national media advertising and discounting programs in order to protect their respective market shares, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. 

The restaurant industry can be significantly affected by changes in consumer tastes and nutritional concerns, national, regional or local economic conditions, demographic trends, traffic patterns, weather, and the type and number of competing restaurants. Changes in these factors could adversely affect us. In addition, other factors such as increased food, beverage, labor, energy and other operating costs could adversely affect us. We believe, however, that our ability to offer higher quality food and beverages at moderate prices with superior service in a distinctive dining environment provides us with the opportunity to capture additional market share in the casual dining segment. 

FOOD QUALITY AND SAFETY 

Our revenues can be substantially affected by adverse publicity resulting from food quality, illness, or health concerns stemming from incidents occurring at a single restaurant of ours as well as incidents that may occur at our competitors&#146; restaurants. In addition, our revenues can be affected by illness or health concerns stemming from incidents occurring at our suppliers or competing suppliers. While we believe that our internal policies and procedures for food safety and sanitation are thorough, the risk of food-borne illness cannot be completely eliminated, and incidents at other restaurant chains or in the food supply chain may affect our restaurants even if our restaurants are not implicated in a food safety concern. We attempt to manage risks of this nature through food safety controls throughout our supply chain and internal training programs, but the occurrence of any one of these factors in any one of our restaurants or elsewhere within the foodservice industry could cause our entire Company to be adversely affected. 

&#160; 

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

The Jacmar Companies and their affiliates (collectively referred to herein as &#147;Jacmar&#148;) is one of our shareholders and James Dal Pozzo, the Chief Executive Officer of Jacmar, is a member of our Board of Directors. Jacmar, through its affiliation with DMA, is currently our largest supplier of food, beverage, paper products and supplies. We began using DMA for our national foodservice distribution in July 2006. In July 2012, we finalized a new five-year agreement with DMA, after conducting another extensive competitive bidding process. Jacmar services our restaurants in California and Nevada, while other DMA distributors service our restaurants in all other states. We believe that Jacmar sells products to us at prices comparable to those offered by unrelated third parties based on our competitive bidding process. Jacmar supplied us with $87.4 million, $86.7 million, and $82.8 million of food, beverage, paper products and supplies for fiscal 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, which represents 20.8%, 21.9%, and 22.6% of our total costs of sales and operating and occupancy costs, respectively. We had trade payables related to these products of $4.3 million and $4.0 million, at December 29, 2015 and December 30, 2014, respectively. Jacmar does not provide us with any produce, liquor, wine or beer products, all of which are provided by other third party vendors and are included in &#147;Cost of sales&#148; on the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS 

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations that affect our business. Each of our restaurants is subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which may include alcoholic beverage control, labor/equal employment, building, land use, health, safety and fire agencies in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located. Difficulties obtaining or maintaining the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the development of a new restaurant in a particular area or could adversely affect the operation of an existing restaurant. We believe, however, that we are in compliance in all material respects with all relevant laws, rules, and regulations. We have never experienced abnormal difficulties or delays in obtaining the licenses or approvals required to open a new restaurant or to continue the operation of an existing restaurant. Additionally, we are not aware of any environmental regulations that have had or that we believe will have a materially adverse effect upon our operations. 

Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to apply to a federal and state authority and, in certain locations, municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages on and off premises. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause by such authority at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of our restaurants, including minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, and storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. 

Our restaurants and brewing operations are subject to &#147;tied house&#148; laws and the &#147;three tier system&#148; of beverage alcohol distribution, which were introduced after the repeal of Prohibition by various states. These laws generally prohibit brewers from holding an interest in retail licenses and require manufacturers, distributors and retailers to remain separate &#147;tiers&#148;. Over the last 25 years, &#147;brewpubs,&#148; which are both retailers and brew beer onsite, have been authorized by law in most states through specific exceptions to these laws. These exceptions are unique to each state and do not mirror one another. However, brewpubs are generally licensed as retailers and do not have the same privileges as microbreweries, and the privilege of, and restrictions imposed on, brewpubs vary from state to state. These restrictions sometimes prevent us from operating both brewpubs and restaurants in some states. We believe that we are currently in compliance with the brewpub regulations in the states where we hold such licenses. However, there is some risk that a state&#146;s brewpub regulations or the interpretation of these regulations may change in a way that could impact our current model of manufacturing beer and/or supplying beer to our restaurants in that state. We apply for our alcoholic beverage licenses with the advice of outside legal and licensing counsel and consultants. Even after the issuance of these licenses, our operations could be subject to differing interpretations of the &#147;tied house&#148; laws and the requirements of the &#147;three tier system&#148; of beverage alcohol distribution in any jurisdiction that we conduct business. Additionally, the failure to receive or retain, or a delay in obtaining, a liquor license in a particular location could adversely affect our ability to obtain such a license elsewhere. 

&#160; 

We are subject to &#147;dram-shop&#148; statutes in California and other states in which we operate. Those statutes generally provide a person who has been injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that has wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. We carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, which we believe is consistent with coverage carried by other entities in the restaurant industry and would help protect us from exposure created by possible claims. Even though we carry liquor liability insurance, a judgment against us under a dram-shop statute in excess of our liability coverage could have a materially adverse effect on us. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, claims may also be expensive to defend and may divert management&#146;s time and our financial resources away from our operations. We may also be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such claims. 

Various federal and state labor laws, along with rules and regulations, govern our relationship with our employees, including such matters as minimum wage, overtime, tip credits, health insurance, working conditions, safety and work eligibility requirements. Significant additional governmental mandates such as an increased minimum wage, an increase in paid time off or leaves of absence, mandates on health benefits and insurance or increased tax reporting and payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, could negatively impact our restaurants&#146; profitability. We are also subject to the regulations of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (&#147;ICE&#148;) branch of the United States Department of Homeland Security. In addition, some states in which we operate have adopted immigration employment protection laws. Even if we operate our restaurants in strict compliance with ICE and state requirements, some of our employees may not meet federal work eligibility or residency requirements, despite our efforts and without our knowledge, which could lead to a disruption in our work force. Additionally, our suppliers may also be affected by various federal and state labor laws which could result in supply disruptions for our various goods and services or higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. 

We are also subject to various laws and proposals regarding regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling. 

We are subject to federal and state environmental regulations. Various laws concerning the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous materials, such as cleaning solvents, and the operation of restaurants in environmentally sensitive locations may impact aspects of our operations. During fiscal 2015, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such expenditures are anticipated. 

Our facilities must comply with the applicable requirements of the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 (&#147;ADA&#148;) and related state statutes. The ADA prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability with respect to public accommodations and employment. Under the ADA and related state laws, when constructing new restaurants or undertaking significant remodeling of existing restaurants, we must make them readily accessible to disabled persons. We must also make reasonable accommodations for the employment of disabled persons. 

We have a significant number of hourly restaurant employees who receive income from gratuities. We have elected to voluntarily participate in a Tip Reporting Alternative Commitment (&#147;TRAC&#148;) agreement with the Internal Revenue Service. By complying with the educational and other requirements of the TRAC agreement, we reduce the likelihood of potential employer-only FICA assessments for unreported or under reported tips. 

EMPLOYEES 

At February 22, 2016, we employed approximately 20,500 employees at our 172 restaurants. Most of our employees in our restaurant operations provide their services on a part-time basis. We also employed approximately 200 employees at our restaurant support center and in our field supervision organization. We believe that we maintain favorable relations with our employees. Currently, no unions or collective bargaining arrangements are in place at our Company. 

&#160; 

INSURANCE 

We maintain property and casualty insurance with coverage and limits we believe are currently appropriate for our operations. We retain a substantial portion of our workers&#146; compensation and general liability costs through self-insured retentions and large deductibles. There is no assurance that any insurance coverage maintained by us will be adequate or that we will not experience claims in excess of our coverage limits; that we can continue to obtain and maintain such insurance at all; or that our premium costs will not rise to an extent that they will adversely affect our ability to economically obtain or maintain such insurance. While we also carry employment practices insurance, a settlement or judgment against us in excess of, or outside of, our coverage limitations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial position and business. See &#147;Limitations in our insurance coverage or rising insurance costs could adversely affect our business or financial condition in certain circumstances&#148; in &#147;Risk Factors&#148; contained in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

TRADEMARKS AND COPYRIGHTS 

We believe that our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights have significant value and are important to our brand-building effort and the marketing of our restaurant concept. Our domestically-registered trademarks and service marks include, among others, our stylized logos displaying the name &#147;BJ&#146;s&#148; for restaurant services, restaurant and bar services, on-line ordering and take-out restaurant services and the word mark &#147;BJ&#146;s&#148; for restaurant and bar services, take-out and carry-out restaurant services. We have also registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office many of our standard and seasonal beer logos and names, as well as many of our signature menu item names including &#147;Great White&#148; and &#147;Sweet Pig&#148; for our proprietary pizzas, &#147;Pizookie&#148; for our proprietary dessert and &#147;Wow, I Love This Place&#148; for our proprietary motto. We have registered our BJ&#146;s logo mark in a number of foreign countries. Additional domestic and foreign trademark applications are pending. We have also registered our ownership of the internet domain name &#147;www.bjsrestaurants.com&#148; and other internet domain names. We believe that the trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights have significant value and are important to our brand-building effort and the marketing of our restaurant concepts. However, there may be other restaurants, retailers and/or businesses that also use the name &#147;BJ&#146;s&#148; in some form or fashion throughout the United States and abroad. We have in the past protected, and expect to continue to vigorously protect, our proprietary rights. We cannot predict whether steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of these rights or the use by others of restaurant features based upon, or otherwise similar to, our concept and products. It may be difficult for us to prevent others from copying elements of our concept. Any litigation undertaken to enforce our rights will likely be costly. In addition, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties&#146; trademarks, patents or other intellectual property rights. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use certain intellectual property rights or information in the future and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. 

&#160; 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers and senior management as of February 22, 2016: 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Age &#160; Position 

Gregory A. Trojan 

&#160; 56 &#160; President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Gregory S. Levin 

&#160; 48 &#160; Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary Gregory S. Lynds 

&#160; 54 &#160; Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer Lon F. Ledwith 

&#160; 58 &#160; Executive Vice President of Operations Kevin E. Mayer 

&#160; 46 &#160; Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer John D. Allegretto 

&#160; 52 &#160; Chief Supply Chain Officer Brian S. Krakower 

&#160; 45 &#160; Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer Kendra D. Miller 

&#160; 41 &#160; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary Alexander M. Puchner 

&#160; 54 &#160; Senior Vice President, Brewing Operations GREGORY A. TROJAN has served as our President and a member of the Company&#146;s Board of Directors since December 2012 and as our Chief Executive Officer since February 2013. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Trojan was employed by Guitar Center, Inc., a leading retailer of musical instrument products, where he served as President, Chief Executive Officer and Director from November 2010 to November 2012 and as President, Chief Operating Officer and Director from October 2007 to November 2010. From 1998 to 2006, Mr. Trojan served as Chief Executive Officer of House of Blues Entertainment, Inc., an operator of restaurant and music venues, concerts and media properties, having served as President from 1996 to 1998. Prior to that, he held various positions with PepsiCo from 1990 to 1996, including service as an executive officer and eventually as Chief Executive Officer of California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., when it was owned by PepsiCo. Earlier in his career, Mr. Trojan was a consultant at Bain &#38; Company, the Wharton Small Business Development Center and Arthur Andersen &#38; Company. Mr. Trojan served on the Board of Directors at Oakley Inc. from June 2005 to November 2007. Since March 2010, he has served as a director of Domino&#146;s Pizza, Inc. 

GREGORY S. LEVIN has served as our Chief Financial Officer since September 2005. He was promoted to Executive Vice President in October 2007 and added the post of Secretary in June 2008. From February 2004 to August 2005, Mr. Levin served as Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of SB Restaurant Company, a privately held company that operated the Elephant Bar Restaurants. From 1996 to 2004, Mr. Levin was employed by California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., operator and licensor of casual dining restaurants, with his last position as Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary. Earlier in his career, he served as an audit manager with Ernst &#38; Young LLP. 

GREGORY S. LYNDS has served as our Chief Development Officer since July 2003 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in October 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Lynds served as a Director of Real Estate for Darden Restaurants, Inc., the largest casual dining company in America. Prior to joining Darden, Mr. Lynds served as Vice President of Real Estate and Development for Wilshire Restaurant Group (Marie Callender&#146;s and East Side Mario&#146;s) and was a partner responsible for expanding the Mimi&#146;s Caf&#233; brand. 

LON F. LEDWITH has served as our Executive Vice President of Operations since April 2015. Prior to this responsibility, he served as our Senior Vice President of Operations Talent Development from January 2010 to March 2015, as our Senior Vice President of Restaurant Operations from April 2006 to December 2009, and as Vice President of Operations from February 2004 to March 2006. From July 1981 to November 2003, Mr. Ledwith was employed by Brinker International, Inc., with his last position as a Regional Vice President of the Chili&#146;s Grill &#38; Bar concept. 

KEVIN E. MAYER has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since July 2014. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Mayer was employed by Volkswagen of America, the U.S. subsidiary of the second largest global auto brand, Volkswagen AG, where he served as Vice President of Marketing from June 2012 to December 2013. From October 2010 to June 2012, Mr. Mayer was employed by General Motors 

&#160; 

and served as their Director of Global Advertising and Promotions for Chevrolet. Prior to that, Mr. Mayer served as the Director of Marketing Communications for Subaru of America from March 2007 to October 2010. Early in his career, Mr. Mayer served in a variety of agency and client-side leadership roles such as Grey Advertising. 

JOHN D. ALLEGRETTO has served as our Chief Supply Chain Officer since July 2005. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Allegretto served as Vice President of Supply Chain Management for Pick Up Stix Restaurants and Cal-International Foods, Inc. (subsidiaries of Carlson Companies, Inc.) from March 2003 to June 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Allegretto was employed by The Walt Disney Company as a director in their Strategic Sourcing Group from October 1997 to February 2003. 

BRIAN S. KRAKOWER has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer since February 2013. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Krakower served as Chief Technology Officer for Restaurant Revolution Technologies, a restaurant order management technology solutions company. From 2007 to 2012, Mr. Krakower was employed by California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., operator and licensor of casual dining restaurants, with his last position as Vice President of Information Technology. From 2003 to 2007, Mr. Krakower served as Senior Director of Information Technology - Corporate Systems for The Cheesecake Factory Incorporated, a publicly held operator of upscale casual dining restaurants. Prior to that, Mr. Krakower was employed by House of Blues Entertainment, Inc., an operator of restaurant and music venues, concerts and media properties, where he served as its Senior Director of Information Systems &#38; Technology from 1997 to 2003. 

KENDRA D. MILLER has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary since March 2011. From August 2008 to February 2011, Ms. Miller practiced law as a partner at the international law firm of Crowell &#38; Moring LLP in Irvine, California. From January 2001 to August 2008, she was employed by Carlton, DiSante &#38; Freudenberger LLP, where she became a partner in January 2008. From September 1999 to December 2000, she practiced law at Paul, Hastings, Janofsky &#38; Walker LLP in Los Angeles, California. In her private practice, she litigated on behalf of and counseled numerous restaurant chains on employment law and business matters. 

ALEXANDER M. PUCHNER has served as our Senior Vice President of Brewing Operations since 1996. From 1993 to 1995, Mr. Puchner was a founder and brewmaster for a number of southern California-based breweries, including Laguna Beach Brewing Co., Huntington Beach Beer Co., Newport Beach Brewing Co. and Westwood Brewing Co. From 1988 to 1993, Mr. Puchner served as a product manager for Aviva Sports/Mattel Inc. and as a marketing research manager for Mattel Inc. Mr. Puchner has been a nationally certified beer judge since 1990. 

&#160;

