 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

&#160; References in this Annual Report to the "Predecessor," "our Predecessor," "we," "our," "us" or like terms for periods prior to April 9, 2015 refer to Enviva, LP and its subsidiaries (other than Enviva Pellets Cottondale, LLC ("Cottondale")). References to the "Partnership," "we," "our," "us" or like terms for periods on and after April 9, 2015 refer to Enviva Partners, LP and its subsidiaries. References to "our sponsor" refer to Enviva Holdings, LP, and, where applicable, its wholly owned subsidiaries Enviva MLP Holdco, LLC and Enviva Development Holdings, LLC. References to "our General Partner" refer to Enviva Partners GP, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Enviva Holdings, LP. References to "Enviva Management" refer to Enviva Management Company, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Enviva Holdings, LP, and references to "our employees" refer to the employees of Enviva Management. References to the "Hancock JV" refer to Enviva Wilmington Holdings, LLC, a joint venture between our sponsor, Hancock Natural Resource Group, Inc. and certain other affiliates of John Hancock Life Insurance Company. References to the "Southampton Drop-Down" refer to our acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding limited liability company interests in Enviva Pellets Southampton, LLC from the Hancock JV on December 11, 2015, together with an off-take contract and a shipping contract. Please read Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements on page 3 and Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for information regarding certain risks inherent in our business. 

Overview 

We are the world's largest supplier by production capacity of utility-grade wood pellets to major power generators. Since our entry into this business in 2010, we have executed multiple long-term, take-or-pay off-take contracts with utilities and large scale power generators and have built and acquired the production and terminaling capacity necessary to serve them. Our existing production constitutes approximately 14% of current global utility-grade wood pellet production capacity. We own and operate six industrial-scale production plants in the Southeastern U.S. that have a combined wood pellet production capacity of 2.3 million metric tons per year ("MTPY"). Three of our production plants are new facilities that we constructed using our templated design and standardized equipment. A fourth plant, our largest in terms of production capacity, has been in operation since 2008. We also own a dry-bulk, deep-water marine terminal at the Port of Chesapeake (the "Chesapeake terminal") that reduces our storage and shiploading costs and enables us to reliably supply our customers. All of our facilities are located in geographic regions with low input costs and favorable transportation logistics. Owning these cost-advantaged, fully-contracted assets in a rapidly expanding industry provides us with a platform to generate stable and growing cash flows that should enable us to increase our per-unit cash distributions over time, which is our primary business objective. 

We were formed on November 12, 2013 as a wholly owned subsidiary of our sponsor. On April 9, 2015, our sponsor contributed some but not all of our Predecessor's assets and liabilities to us. On May 4, 2015, we completed an initial public offering (the "IPO") of common units representing limited partner interests in the Partnership. Our assets and operations are organized into a single reportable segment and are all located and conducted in the United States. Please read Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#151;Note 1, Business and Basis of Presentation " for further discussion regarding our formation and organization. 

Industry Overview 

Our principal product, utility-grade wood pellets, is becoming a global energy commodity. Utility-grade wood pellets are used as a substitute for coal in both dedicated and co-fired power generation and combined heat and power plants. They enable major power generators to profitably generate electricity in a manner that reduces the overall cost of compliance with mandatory GHG emissions limits and 

renewable energy targets while also allowing countries to diversify their sources of electricity supply. Unlike wind and solar power generation, wood pellet-fired plants are capable of meeting baseload electricity demand and are dispatchable (that is, power output can be switched on or off or adjusted based on demand). The capital costs required to convert a coal plant to co-fire biomass, or to burn biomass exclusively, are a fraction of the capital costs associated with implementing offshore wind and most other renewable technologies. Furthermore, the relatively quick process of converting coal-fired plants to biomass-fired generation is an attractive benefit for power generators whose generation assets are no longer viable as coal plants due to the expiration of operating permits or the introduction of taxes or other restrictions on fossil fuel usage or emissions of GHGs and other pollutants. 

There also continues to be significant growth in the demand for wood pellets to heat homes and commercial buildings and to produce process heat at industrial sites. As the markets develop and commoditize, there will continue to be opportunities for utility-grade wood pellet producers to serve this growing demand. 

Our Assets and Operations 

We procure wood fiber and process it into utility-grade wood pellets. We load the finished wood pellets into railcars, trucks and barges that are transported to deep-water marine terminals, where they are received, stored and ultimately loaded onto oceangoing vessels for transport to our principally Northern European customers. 

Our customers use our wood pellets as a substitute fuel for coal in dedicated biomass or co-fired coal power plants. Wood pellets serve as a suitable "drop-in" alternative to coal because of their comparable heat content, density and form. Due to the uninterruptible nature of our customers' fuel consumption, our customers require a reliable supply of wood pellets that meet stringent product specifications. We have built our operations and assets to deliver and certify the highest levels of product quality, and our proven track record enables us to charge premium prices for this certainty. In addition to our customers' focus on the reliability of supply, they are concerned about the combustion efficiency of the wood pellets and their safe handling. Because combustion efficiency is a function of energy density, particle size distribution, ash/inert content and moisture, our customers require that we supply wood pellets meeting minimum criteria for a variety of specifications and, in some cases, provide incentives for exceeding our contract specifications. 

Our Production Plants 

We own and operate six industrial-scale wood pellet production plants located in the Mid-Atlantic and the Gulf Coast regions of the United States. These facilities are designed to run 24 hours per day, 365 days per year, although we schedule up to 15 days of maintenance for our plants during each calendar year. There are no regularly required major turnarounds or overhauls. 

Mid-Atlantic Region Plants 

The following table describes our three wood pellet production plants in the Mid-Atlantic region: 

Plant Location 

&#160; Operations Commenced &#160; Current Annual Production (MTPY) &#160; Ahoskie, North Carolina &#160; November 2011 &#160; &#160; 370,000 &#160; Northampton, North Carolina &#160; April 2013 &#160; &#160; 510,000 &#160; Southampton, Virginia &#160; October 2013 &#160; &#160; 510,000 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Total &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,390,000 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

Ahoskie 

We acquired the site of the Ahoskie plant in December 2010 and constructed a dedicated wood pellet production plant in less than one year, commencing operations in November 2011. Through an expansion completed in June 2012, we increased the plant's production from 260,000 MTPY to 350,000 MTPY and have made further improvements to increase production to its current capacity of 370,000 MTPY. 

Production from the Ahoskie plant is transported by truck to our Chesapeake terminal. 

Northampton 

The Northampton plant was constructed based on the Ahoskie plant design, utilizing the same major equipment suppliers. The Northampton plant currently produces 510,000 MTPY of wood pellets. 

Production from the Northampton plant is transported by truck to our Chesapeake terminal. 

Southampton 

The Southampton plant is a replica of our Northampton plant. The Southampton plant currently produces 510,000 MTPY of wood pellets. We acquired the Southampton plant from our sponsor in December 2015. 

Production from the Southampton plant is transported by truck to our Chesapeake terminal. 

Gulf Coast Region Plants 

The following table describes our three wood pellet production plants in the Gulf Coast region: 

Plant Location 

&#160; Acquisition Date &#160; Current Annual Production (MTPY) &#160; Cottondale, Florida &#160; January 2015 &#160; &#160; 700,000 &#160; Amory, Mississippi &#160; August 2010 &#160; &#160; 110,000 &#160; Wiggins, Mississippi &#160; October 2010 &#160; &#160; 110,000 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Total &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 920,000 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

Cottondale 

Our sponsor acquired Green Circle Bio Energy, Inc., which owns a wood pellet production plant in Cottondale, Florida, in January 2015, changed the name of this entity to Cottondale and contributed Cottondale to us in April 2015. The Cottondale plant was commissioned in 2008 and has undergone expansion and process improvements since then. The Cottondale plant currently produces 700,000 MTPY. 

Production from the Cottondale plant is transported approximately 50 miles by short-line rail to a warehouse in Port Panama City, Florida, where we store up to 32,000 MT of inventory. 

Amory 

We purchased the Amory plant in August 2010. The plant initially consisted of three pellet mills producing at a rate of 41,500 MTPY. Through basic operational improvements and installation of a fourth pellet mill, the Amory plant currently produces 110,000 MTPY. 

Production from the Amory plant is transported by barge to a third-party deep-water marine terminal in Mobile, Alabama (the "Mobile terminal"). 

Wiggins 

We purchased a 50% controlling interest in the entity that owns the Wiggins plant in October 2010, and subsequently contributed capital in exchange for additional interests that increased our ownership interest to a 67% controlling interest. During 2011, we completed a series of modifications to the plant and production capacity was increased from 45,000 MTPY to its current production capacity of 110,000 MTPY. 

Production from the Wiggins plant is transported by truck to the Mobile terminal. 

Logistics and Storage Capabilities 

To-Port Logistics and Port Infrastructure 

We site our production plants to minimize wood fiber procurement and logistics costs. Our production plants are strategically located in advantaged fiber baskets and near multiple truck, rail, river and ocean transportation access points. We also have inland waterway access and rail access at our Chesapeake terminal and in Port Panama City. Our multi-year fixed-cost contracts with third-party logistics providers allow for long-term visibility into our to-port logistics cost structure. 

The wood pellets produced at our plants must be stored, terminaled and shipped to our European customers. Limited deep-water, bulk terminaling assets exist in the Southeastern U.S., and very few of them have the appropriate handling and storage infrastructure necessary for receiving, storing and loading wood pellets. In response to such scarcity, we have vertically integrated our Mid-Atlantic operations downstream to encompass finished product logistics and storage. As a largely fixed cost and capital intensive piece of the value chain, our port infrastructure allows us to ship incremental product from our regional plants at a small fraction of the cost of our competitors. Management of port terminal infrastructure is also a key element in reducing distribution-related costs as we can manage the arrival and loading of vessels. Additionally, we are able to improve our cost position by maintaining a dedicated berth where pellets from our Mid-Atlantic region plants have priority and equipment with sufficient load rate capabilities to turn around vessels within the allotted time windows. 

In addition to terminaling wood pellets from our production plants, we will, on occasion, provide terminaling services for third-party wood pellet producers as well as for owners of other bulk commodities. 

Port Operation in the Mid-Atlantic Region 

We acquired a deep-water marine terminal located at the Port of Chesapeake in January 2011 and converted it into a major dry-bulk terminal. Wood pellets produced at our Mid-Atlantic region plants are transported by truck to our Chesapeake terminal. The Chesapeake terminal receives, stores and loads wood pellets for export and serves as the shipment point for products produced at our Mid-Atlantic region plants. The Chesapeake terminal accommodates Handysize, Supramax and Panamax-sized vessels, and has a 200-car rail yard adjacent to a Norfolk Southern track, a loading/unloading system to accommodate deliveries by truck, rail and barge and a highly automated conveying system. In May 2011, we erected a 157-foot tall, 175-foot wide storage dome that receives, stores and loads up to 45,000 MT of wood pellets. In April 2013, we placed into operation a second storage dome at the site to add an additional 45,000 MT of storage. 

The Chesapeake terminal's storage and loading capacity is more than adequate to store and facilitate the loading of the wood pellets produced from our Mid-Atlantic region plants, and its location decreases our customers' transportation time and costs. Efficiently positioned near our Ahoskie, 

Northampton and Southampton plants, the Chesapeake terminal delivers up to a three- to four-day European shipping advantage compared to other Southern or Gulf Coast ports. In addition, because we own the Chesapeake terminal, we enjoy preferential berth access and lading, which minimizes costs of shipping and logistics without the need for excess storage. Our ownership and operation of this terminal enables us to control shipment of the production of our Mid-Atlantic region plants. 

Port Operation in the Gulf Coast Region 

Wood pellets from our Cottondale plant are transported via short-line rail to the Panama City terminal where we store up to 32,000 MT of inventory in a warehouse at Port Panama City. Production from the Cottondale plant is received, stored and loaded under a long-term warehouse service agreement with the Port Authority and a stevedoring contract, each of which runs through June 2018. We have the right to extend the warehouse services agreement for up to five additional two-year terms. 

Wood pellets produced at our Amory and Wiggins plants are transported by barge and truck, respectively, to the Mobile terminal, where, pursuant to a long-term throughput agreement with Cooper Marine &#38; Timberlands, we export from Cooper's ChipCo terminal. This privately owned and maintained deep-water, multi-berth terminal operates 24 hours per day, seven days per week and is the fleeting and loading point for production from our Amory and Wiggins plants. These production plants have been sited along major inland waterways and highways that make transportation to the Mobile terminal easy and efficient, thereby reducing emissions and costs. Trucked volumes from the Wiggins plant are transferred into barges and are fleeted along with barges from the Amory plant. The ability to store our wood pellets in barges provides a capital-light, flexible solution that accommodates the storage needs of the Amory and Wiggins plants. 

Our Sponsor's Assets and Development Projects 

In connection with the closing of the IPO, we entered into a Purchase Rights Agreement with our sponsor, pursuant to which our sponsor granted us a five-year right of first offer to acquire the Wilmington Projects (as defined below) and any other wood pellet production plants and associated deep-water marine terminals that it or the Hancock JV may develop or acquire and elect to sell. We expect to pursue the acquisition of such assets to the extent that they are supported by long-term off-take contracts with creditworthy counterparties and have long useful lives, stable cost positions and advantaged locations. 

Long-Term, Take-or-Pay Off-Take Contracts 

The Hancock JV is party to a ten-year take-or-pay off-take contract with DONG Energy Thermal Power A/S, a Danish power generator ("DONG Energy"). This contract commences September 1, 2016 and provides for sales of 360,000 MTPY for the first delivery year and 420,000 MTPY for years two through ten. DONG Energy's obligations under the contract are guaranteed by DONG Energy A/S. 

In the first quarter of 2016, the Hancock JV entered into a new take-or-pay contract (the "MGT Contract") to be the sole source supplier of nearly 1 million tons of imported wood pellets needed annually by MGT Power's Teesside Renewable Energy Plant (the "Tees REP"), which is currently under development. Deliveries under the MGT Contract are expected to commence in 2019 and continue through 2034. Following the execution of the MGT Contract, we entered into a contract with the Hancock JV (the "EVA-MGT Contract") to supply 375,000 MTPY of the contracted volume to the Tees REP. For more information on the EVA-MGT Contract, please read "&#151;Customers&#151;EVA-MGT Contract" below. Both the EVA-MGT Contract and the MGT Contract are contingent upon the Tees REP reaching financial close. 

Wilmington Projects 

The Hancock JV continues to progress the construction of the 515,000 MTPY Sampson production plant and began commissioning the plant during 2016. In addition, the Hancock JV is constructing a deep-water marine terminal in Wilmington, North Carolina. We collectively refer to the Sampson plant, the Wilmington terminal and two future production plants as the "Wilmington Projects." The production plants under development are strategically sited in attractive fiber baskets in close proximity to the Wilmington terminal. 

Although we expect to continue to have the opportunity to acquire assets, including the Wilmington Projects, from our sponsor or the Hancock JV in the future, there can be no assurance that our sponsor or the Hancock JV will be successful in completing their development projects or that our sponsor will decide to sell, or compel the Hancock JV to sell, assets or completed development projects to us. 

Customers 

For the year ended December 31, 2015, we generated substantially all of our revenues from sales under long-term off-take contracts. We seek to contract a substantial portion of our production through long-term off-take contracts supplemented by smaller contracts of intermediate or short duration to take advantage of opportunities in the market. 

Depending on the specific take-or-pay off-take contract, shipping terms are either "Cost, Insurance and Freight" ("CIF") or "Free On Board" ("FOB"). Under a CIF contract, we procure and pay for shipping costs, which include insurance and all other charges, up to the port of destination for the customer. These costs are included in the price to the customer and, as such, are included in revenue and cost of goods sold. Under an FOB contract, the customer is directly responsible for shipping costs. We have entered into fixed-price shipping contracts with reputable shippers matching the terms and volumes of our contracts for which we are responsible for arranging shipping. 

We have take-or-pay off-take contracts with utilities and large European power generators such as Drax and ENGIE (formerly known as GDF SUEZ Energy Management Trading). Excluding the EVA-MGT Contract and the Langerlo contract, described below, our off-take contracts provide for sales of 2.3 million MT of wood pellets in 2016 and have a weighted average remaining term of 7.1 years from March 1, 2016. As our current off-take contracts expire, we will seek to recontract our capacity with a combination of renewals with existing customers, the acquisition of additional contracts from the Hancock JV and the entry into contracts with new customers. 

Drax Contracts. We began selling utility-grade wood pellets pursuant to a contract with Drax (the "First Drax Contract") in the amount of 468,750 MTPY on April 1, 2013. Beginning on April 1, 2014 through the end of the term of the First Drax Contract in 2022, we will sell 1,000,000 MTPY of wood pellets. In connection with the Southampton Drop-Down, the Hancock JV assigned to us a ten-year contract with Drax (the "Second Drax Contract"). The Second Drax Contract commenced on December 1, 2015, and we will supply 385,000 MT for the first delivery year and 500,000 MTPY for years two through ten. 

ENGIE. We began selling utility-grade wood pellets to Electrabel in the amount of 480,000 MTPY on June 30, 2011. The initial contract term expires in June 2017. 

Langerlo Contract. We have contracted with the owner of the Langerlo power station in Ghent, Belgium, to supply 450,000 MTPY of wood pellets beginning in 2017 and continuing through 2026. The owner intends to convert the plant from coal to biomass. In the first quarter of 2016, an affiliate of the owner filed for insolvency. Although we do not believe that our customer is involved in the insolvency proceeding, it is possible that our customer will not be able to perform under the terms of the contract. 

EVA-MGT Contract. We have contracted with the Hancock JV to supply 375,000 MTPY to the Tees REP. The EVA-MGT Contract is denominated in British Pound Sterling and commences in 2019, ramps to full supply in 2021 and continues through 2034. The contract is contingent upon Tees REP reaching financial close. For more information on the EVA-MGT Contract, please read Part III, Item 13. "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence&#151;Agreements with Affiliates&#151;EVA-MGT Contract." 

We refer to the structure of our contracts as "take-or-pay" because they include a firm obligation to take a fixed quantity of product at a stated price and provisions that compensate us in the case of our customer's failure to accept all or a part of the contracted volumes or for termination by our customer. Our contracts provide for annual inflation-based adjustments or price escalators. Certain of our contracts also contain provisions that allow us to increase or decrease the volume of product that we deliver by a percentage of the base volume of the contract, as well as cost pass-through provisions related to stumpage (i.e., the price paid to the underlying timber resource owner for the raw material), fuel or transportation costs and price adjustments for actual product specifications. In addition, certain of our contracts and related arrangements provide for certain cost recovery and sharing arrangements in connection with certain changes in law or sustainability requirements and for payments to us in the case of termination as a result of such changes. 

In addition to our long-term contracts, we also sell product under limited scope contracts. On occasion, we will intermediate dislocations in the market by entering into back-to-back transactions with physical delivery. We also provide terminaling services for other bulk commodities and fiber procurement services for domestic users of wood fiber. 

Contracted Backlog 

As of March 1, 2016, we had approximately $2.3 billion of product sales backlog for firm contracted product sales to Drax, ENGIE and other major power generators. Backlog represents the revenue to be recognized under existing contracts assuming deliveries occur as specified in the contract. 

Excluding the EVA-MGT Contract and the Langerlo contract, our expected future product sales revenue under our contracted backlog as of March 1, 2016 is as follows (in millions): 

Period March 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 &#160; $ 360 &#160; Year ending December 31, 2017 &#160; &#160; 355 &#160; Year ending December 31, 2018 and thereafter &#160; &#160; 1,585 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Total product sales contracted backlog &#160; $ 2,300 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

Wood Fiber Procurement 

Although stumpage (i.e., the price paid to the underlying timber resource owner for the raw material) constitutes only approximately 15% of our total cost of delivered products, wood fiber procurement is a vital function of our business, and cost-effective access to wood fiber is an important factor in our pricing stability. Our raw materials are byproducts of traditional timber harvesting, principally the tops and limbs of trees as well as other low-value wood materials that are generated in a harvest. We procure wood fiber directly from timber owners, loggers and other suppliers. We also opportunistically acquire industrial residuals (sawdust and shavings) and forest residuals (woodchips and slash) when they provide a cost advantage. Due to the moisture content of unprocessed wood, it cannot be transported economically over long distances. Therefore, the specific regional wood fiber resource supply and demand balance dictates the underlying economics of wood fiber procurement. For this reason, we have elected to site our facilities in some of the most robust and advantaged fiber baskets in the world. 

Our customers are subject to stringent requirements regarding the sustainability of the fuels they procure. In addition to our internal sustainability policies and initiatives, our wood fiber procurement is conducted in accordance with leading forest certification standards. Our wood pellet production plants and their associated fiber supply chains have been audited by independent third parties and certified to the Sustainable Forestry Initiative&#174; (SFI&#174;) fiber sourcing standard and have achieved chain-of-custody certifications to the Forest Stewardship Council&#153; (FSC&#174;) and the Programme for Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). In addition, we proactively work with all of our suppliers to promote responsible forest management on all lands, not just those that are already certified. 

Our wood fiber demand is complementary to, rather than in competition with, demand for high-grade wood for use by most other forest-related industries, such as lumber and furniture making. Improvements in the U.S. housing construction industry increase the demand for construction-quality lumber, which in turn increases the available supply of the low-cost pulpwood and mill residues that are used in wood pellet production. By using commercial thinnings and byproducts as raw materials, wood pellet production also indirectly supports other forest-related industries as well as the sustainable management of commercial forests. 

The wood fiber used for wood pellet production comprises predominantly pulpwood, which derives its name from its traditional use by the pulp and paper industry and includes roundwood (typically thinnings from forest management operations and the tops and branches from sawlogs), and wood residues (primarily mill residues, a byproduct of sawmilling and veneer mill operations). Our procured wood fiber consists of: 

&#149; Low-grade wood fiber: wood that is unsuitable for or rejected by the sawmilling and lumber industries because of small size, defects (e.g. crooked or knotty), disease or pest infestation; &#149; Tops and limbs: the parts of trees that cannot be processed into lumber; &#149; Commercial thinnings: harvests that promote the growth of higher value timber by removing weaker or deformed trees to reduce competition for water, nutrients and sunlight; and &#149; Mill residues: chips, sawdust and other wood industry byproducts. Demand for the non-merchantable trees, waste products or byproducts that we use is generally low because they have few competing uses, and such raw materials represent approximately 10% to 30% of the value paid to a landowner for any given harvest. The tops, limbs and other low-grade wood fiber we purchase would otherwise generally be left on the forest floor, impeding reforestation, or burned. Wood pellet production provides a profitable use for the residues from sawmill and furniture industries and for the trees that are thinned to make room for higher value lumber-grade timber. U.S. demand for such low grade wood fiber historically emerged from the pulp and paper industry. However, due to the decline in demand from paper and pulp, many landowners lack commercial markets for this wood fiber. Wood pellet producers help fill the gap. 

As a result of the fragmented nature of tract ownership, we procure raw materials from hundreds of landowners, loggers and timber industry participants, with no individual landowner representing a material fraction of any of our production plants' needs. Our wood fiber is procured under a range of arrangements, including (1) the direct purchase of timber tracts which provide an inventory of stumpage, (2) logging contracts for the thinnings, pulpwood and other unmerchandised chip-and-saw timber cut by a harvester, (3) in-woods chipping contracts where we may also provide the actual harvesting assets, (4) contracts with timber dealers and (5) "gatewood" purchases, which refer to wood hauled to a mill that was not purchased as standing timber by the mill. We have sourced wood fiber from more than 500 suppliers, including landowners growing both hardwoods and softwoods and other suppliers. The diversity of our supply base enables us to maintain stable costs, and our facilities' advantaged siting ensures consistent and reliable deliveries at lower cost than others in our region or industry. 

Competition 

We compete with other utility-grade wood pellet producers for long-term, take-or-pay off-take contracts with major power generation customers. Competition in our industry is based on the price, quality and consistency of the wood pellets produced, the reliability of wood pellet deliveries and the producer's ability to verify and document, through customer and third-party audits, that its wood pellets meet the regulatory sustainability obligations of a particular customer. 

Most of the world's current wood pellet production plants are owned by small, private companies, with few companies owning or operating multiple plants. Few companies have the scale, technical expertise or commercial infrastructure necessary to supply utility-grade wood pellets under large, long-term off-take contracts with power generators. We are the largest producer by production capacity, and consider the limited number of other companies with comparable scale, technical expertise or commercial infrastructure to be our competitors. 

Approximately 58% of the world's utility-grade wood pellet production capacity is located in North America. Other current producers of utility-grade wood pellets in North America include Fram Renewable Fuels, LLC, which is owned by an individual investor, Georgia Biomass, LLC, a plant owned by RWE Innogy, Rentech Inc., Pacific BioEnergy, Pinnacle Renewable Energy Inc., Drax Biomass Inc., affiliates of German Pellets GmbH, The Navigator Company, S.A., Zilkha Biomass LLC and The Westervelt Company. 

Our Management and Employees 

We are managed and operated by the board of directors and the executive officers of our General Partner. As a result of owning our General Partner, our sponsor has the right to appoint all members of the board of directors of our General Partner, at least three of whom must meet the independence standards established by the NYSE. Our unitholders are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its directors or otherwise directly participate in our management or operations. For more information about the executive officers and directors of our General Partner, please read Part III, Item 10. "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance." 

As of December 31, 2015, Enviva Management had 569 employees. Please read Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#151;Related Party Transactions" for more information regarding our management services agreement with Enviva Management. 

Our Relationship with Our Sponsor 

Our sponsor, Enviva Holdings, LP, is a majority owned subsidiary of the Riverstone Funds. 

Our sponsor owns approximately 10.5% of our common units, all of our subordinated units and our General Partner. Our General Partner owns our incentive distribution rights, which entitles our General Partner to increasing percentages of our cash distribution above certain targets. As a result, our sponsor is incentivized to facilitate our access to accretive acquisition and organic growth opportunities, including those pursuant to the right of first offer it granted to us in connection with our IPO. 

Our sponsor is the managing member and operator of the Hancock JV and is responsible for managing the activities of the Hancock JV, including the development and construction of the Hancock JV's development projects. 

Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing matters including environmental protection, occupational health and safety and 

the release or discharge of materials into the environment, including air emissions and wastewater discharges. These laws and regulations may (i) require acquisition, compliance with and maintenance of certain permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, (ii) impose technology requirements or standards on our operations, (iii) restrict the amounts and types of substances that may be discharged or emitted into the environment, (iv) limit or prohibit construction or timbering activities in sensitive areas such as wetlands or areas inhabited by endangered or threatened species, (v) govern worker health and safety aspects of operations, (vi) require measures to investigate, mitigate or remediate releases of hazardous or other substances from our operations and (vii) impose substantial liabilities, including possible fines and penalties for unpermitted emissions or discharges from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations and the issuance of orders enjoining some or all of our operations in affected areas. 

Moreover, the trend in environmental regulation is towards increasingly stringent and broader requirements for activities that may affect the environment. Any changes in environmental laws and regulations or re-interpretation of enforcement policies that result in more stringent and costly requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Although we monitor environmental requirements closely and budget for the expected costs, actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate spending. Moreover, certain environmental laws impose joint and several, strict liability for costs to clean up and restore sites where pollutants have been disposed or otherwise spilled or released. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant costs and liabilities for remediation or damage to property, natural resources or persons as a result of spills or releases from our operations or those of a third party. Although we believe that our competitors will face similar environmental requirements, other market factors may prevent us from passing on any increased costs to our customers. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not materially affect us, there is no assurance that the current level of regulation will continue in the future. 

The following summarizes some of the more significant existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our business operations and with which compliance may have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position. 

Air Emissions 

The Clean Air Act, as amended ("CAA"), and state and local laws and regulations that implement and add to CAA requirements, regulate the emission of air pollutants from our facilities. The CAA imposes significant monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements for these emissions. These laws and regulations require us to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce or significantly increase air emissions, obtain and strictly comply with stringent air permits, and in certain cases utilize specific equipment or technologies to control and measure emissions. Obtaining these permits can be both costly and time intensive and has the potential to delay the opening of new plants or the significant expansion of existing plants. 

The CAA requires that we obtain various construction and operating permits, including, in some cases, Title V air permits. In certain cases, the CAA requires us to incur capital expenditures to install air pollution control devices at our facilities. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial administrative and capital expenditures to maintain compliance with CAA requirements that have been promulgated or may be promulgated or revised in the future. 

Climate Change and Greenhouse Gases 

In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and certain other gases, referred to as greenhouse gases ("GHGs"), present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("U.S. EPA") has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and certain stationary sources. In August 2015, U.S. EPA also issued its final rules to reduce GHG pollution from existing and new power plants ("CPP"). Although the CPP has been stayed by the United States Supreme Court while legal challenges are pending, U.S. EPA maintains that implementation of the rule will begin as scheduled in 2022, and states are currently evaluating if and how to continue with the development of their implementation plans. Although U.S. EPA permits states to consider biomass-based fuel in energy production in their plans as a mechanism to meet the emission reduction requirements of the CPP, there remains uncertainty regarding the treatment of biomass under the rule and costs to implement the rule. See Item 1A. "Risk Factor&#151;Climate change legislation, regulatory initiatives and litigation could result in increased operating costs." and "Risk Factor&#151;Changes in government policies, incentives and taxes implemented to support increased generation of low carbon and renewable energy may affect customer demand for our products." Additionally, any other legislation or regulations that require permitting or reporting of GHG emissions or limit such emissions from our equipment and operations or from biomass-fired power plants operated by our customers, could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations, or negatively impact the demand for wood pellets. We also note that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations. 

Water Discharges 

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended ("Clean Water Act"), as well as state laws and regulations that implement, and may be more stringent than, the Clean Water Act, restrict the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. Any such discharge of pollutants must be performed in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by U.S. EPA or the implementing state agency. In addition, the Clean Water Act and implementing state laws and regulations require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of storm water runoff from certain types of facilities. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations. These permits generally have a term of five years. Although our facilities are presently in compliance with these requirements, changes to the terms and conditions of our permits in future renewals or new or modified regulations could require us to incur additional capital or operating expenditures which may be material. 

Pursuant to the Clean Water Act, U.S. EPA has adopted the Discharge of Oil Regulation, which requires any person in charge of an onshore facility to report any discharge of a harmful quantity of oil into U.S. navigable waters, adjoining shorelines or the contiguous zone. A harmful quantity is any quantity of discharged oil that violates state water quality standards, causes a film or sheen on the water's surface or leaves sludge or emulsion beneath the surface. Spills from our production plants that are located along waterways or from our deep-water marine terminal facilities may result in fines, penalties and obligations to respond to and remediate any such spills. 

Spill Response and Release Reporting 

Certain of our facilities are subject to federal requirements to prepare for and respond to spills or releases from tanks and other equipment located at these facilities and provide training to employees on operation, maintenance and discharge prevention procedures and the applicable pollution control 

laws. At these facilities, we have developed or will develop Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure plans to memorialize these preparations and response plans and will update them on a regular basis. From time to time, these requirements may be made more stringent and may require us to modify our operations or expand our plans accordingly. The costs of implementing any such modifications or expansion may be significant. In addition, in the event of a spill or release, we may incur fines or penalties or incur responsibility for damage to natural resources, private property or personal injury in addition to obligations to respond to and remediate any such spill or release. 

Endangered Species Act 

The federal Endangered Species Act, as amended ("ESA"), restricts activities that may affect endangered and threatened species or their habitats. Although some of our facilities may be located in areas that are designated as habitat for endangered or threatened species, we believe that we are in substantial compliance with the ESA. Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on September 9, 2011, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is required to make a determination on listing of more than 250 species as endangered or threatened under the ESA over the next six years, through the agency's 2017 fiscal year. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could cause us to incur additional costs or become subject to operating restrictions or bans in the affected areas, which could have an adverse impact on the availability or price of raw materials. 

Coastal Area Protection and Wetlands and Navigable Waters Activity Regulations 

Our Chesapeake terminal is a deep-water marine terminal facility. As a result, it is subject to the various federal and state programs that regulate the conservation and development of coastal resources. At the federal level, the Coastal Zone Management Act ("CZMA") was enacted to preserve, protect, develop and, where possible, restore or enhance valuable natural coastal resources of the United States coastal zone. The CZMA authorizes and provides grants for state management programs to regulate land and water use and coastal development. 

In Virginia, the Virginia Coastal Zone Management Program ("Virginia CZM Program") administers the CZMA as established through Executive Order 18 (2010). A network of state agencies and local governments administer the Virginia CZM Program with the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality serving as the lead agency. The Chesapeake Bay Preservation Area Designation and Management Regulations provide specific regulations regarding the protection and improvement of water quality of the Chesapeake Bay and establish criteria for local governments in granting, denying or modifying zoning and development requests in certain areas. The City of Chesapeake has passed an ordinance creating the Chesapeake Bay Preservation Area District and adopting regulations for development within that district. 

In addition to the CZMA, the Clean Water Act may result in federal or state regulators imposing conditions or restrictions on our operations or construction activities. For instance, the dredge and fill provisions of the Clean Water Act require a permit to conduct construction activities in protected waters and wetlands and prohibit unpermitted discharges of fill materials. Likewise, Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act also requires permits for the construction of certain port structures. We believe that we are in material compliance with these various requirements. However, any delays in obtaining future permits or renewals, or the inclusion of restrictive conditions in such permits, could adversely affect the cost of, or result in delays in, our operations and any future construction. 

Safety and Maintenance 

We are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended ("OSHA"), and comparable state statutes, whose 

purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. We have a corporate health and safety program that governs the way we conduct our operations at our facilities. Our employees receive OSHA training that is appropriate in light of the tasks performed at our facilities and general training on our health and safety plans. Compliance with OSHA and general training is mandatory. We perform preventive and routine maintenance on all of our manufacturing and deep-water marine terminaling systems, and make repairs and replacements when necessary or appropriate. We also conduct routine and required inspections of those assets in accordance with applicable regulations. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standards in the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local governmental authorities and citizens. Our facilities adhere to National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards for combustible dust and incorporate pollution control equipment such as cyclones, baghouses and electrostatic precipitators to minimize regulated emissions. Our deep-water marine terminaling facilities adhere to Homeland Security/U.S. Coast Guard regulations regarding physical security and emergency response plans. We continually strive to maintain compliance with applicable air, solid waste and wastewater regulations. Notwithstanding these preventative measures, we cannot guarantee that serious accidents will not occur in the future. 

Seasonality 

Our business is affected to some extent by seasonal fluctuations. The cost of producing wood pellets tends to be higher in the winter months because the delivered cost of fiber typically increases with wet weather and our raw materials have, on average, higher moisture content during this period of the year, resulting in a lower product yield. In addition, lower ambient temperatures increase the cost of drying wood fiber. 

Principal Executive Offices 

We lease office space for our principal executive offices at 7200 Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 1000, Bethesda, Maryland 20814. The lease expires in June 2024. 

Available Information 

We file annual, quarterly and current reports and other documents with the U.S. Securities Exchange Act Commission ("SEC") under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operations of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

We also make available free of charge our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, simultaneously with or as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with, or furnishing such materials to, the SEC, and on or through our website, www.envivabiomass.com. The information on our website, or information about us on any other website, is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 

