 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. General 

Provectus Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation formed in 2002, together with its six wholly owned subsidiaries and one majority owned subsidiary managed on a consolidated basis, referred to herein as &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; and &#147;our,&#148; is a development-stage biopharmaceutical company that is primarily engaged in developing ethical pharmaceuticals for oncology and dermatology indications. Our goal is to develop alternative treatments that are safer, more effective, less invasive and more economical than conventional therapies. We develop and intend to license or market and sell our two prescription drug candidates, PV-10 and PH-10. We also hold patents and other intellectual property which we believe may be used in over-the-counter products, which we refer to as OTC products, and various other non-core technologies. We have transferred all our intellectual property related to OTC products and non-core technologies to our subsidiaries and have designated such subsidiaries as non-core to our primary business of developing our oncology and dermatology prescription drug candidates. 

Prescription Drugs 

We focus on developing our prescription drug candidates PV-10 and PH-10. We are developing PV-10 for treatment of several life threatening cancers including metastatic melanoma, liver cancer, and breast cancer. We are developing PH-10 to provide minimally invasive treatment of chronic severe skin afflictions such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis, a type of eczema. We believe that our prescription drug candidates will be safer and more specific than currently existing products. All of our prescription drug candidates are in either the pre-clinical or clinical trial stage. 

The table below sets forth our two prescription drug candidates and our progress in developing those candidates for the indications shown: 

Product Pipeline 

Melanoma* 

PV-10 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 3 study in progress: Opened recruitment in April 2015 &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1 and 2 studies completed, full reports submitted &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Orphan drug status obtained in January 2007 Melanoma 

PV-10 + 

Pembrolizumab 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1b/2 study initiated September 2015 Melanoma 

(Method of Action) 

PV-10 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1 study to detect immune cell infiltration into melanomas treated with PV-10 has now finished recruiting &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Data will be published &#160;

Cancers of the Liver 

PV-10 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Orphan drug status obtained in April 2011 &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1 patient accrual and treatment completed &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1 protocol expansion (Sep 2012 into 2016) &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Data communicated in 2015 &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1b/2 being planned for West and East SOC Breast Cancer 

PV-10 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1 study completed &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Further clinical development is being planned Psoriasis 

PH-10 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2c randomized study completed and full report submitted to FDA &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Toxicity study R&#38;D for advanced studies 2012 to 2016 Psoriasis 

(Mechanism of Action) 

PH-10 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2 mechanism of action study initiated in January 2015 by leading research facility &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2 study recruitment began in Q1 2015 &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2 study recruitment completed in Q3 2015 Atopic Dermatitis 

PH-10 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2 study completed and full report submitted to FDA &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Toxicity study R&#38;D for advanced studies 2012 to 2016 &#160;

* In addition to clinical trials, patients enrolled in the Compassionate Use Program for PV-10 are also receiving PV-10 treatments. Oncology (PV-10) 

Reported by Global Cancer Facts &#38; Figures, 3 rd Edition, according to estimates from the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), there were 14.1 million new cancer cases in 2012 worldwide, of which 8 million occurred in economically developing countries, which contain about 82% of the world&#146;s population. These estimates do not include non-melanoma skin cancers, which are not tracked in cancer registries. The corresponding estimates for total cancer deaths in 2012 were 8.2 million (about 22,000 cancer deaths a day) &#150; 2.9 million in economically developed countries, and 5.3 million 

&#160;

in economically developing countries. By 2030, the global burden is expected to grow to 21.7 million new cancer cases and 13 million cancer deaths simply due to the growth and aging of the population. However, the estimated future cancer burden will probably be considerably larger due to the adoption of lifestyles that are known to increase cancer risk, such as smoking, poor diet, physical inactivity, and fewer pregnancies, in economically developing countries. Cancers related to these factors, such as lung, breast, and colorectal cancers, are already on the rise in economically transitioning countries. In economically developed countries, the three most commonly diagnosed cancers were prostate, lung, and colorectal among males, and breast, colorectal, and lung among females. In economically developing countries, the three most commonly diagnosed cancers were lung, liver, and stomach in males, and breast, cervix uteri, and lung in females. In both economically developed and developing countries, the three most common cancer sites were also the three leading causes of cancer death. Rates of cancers common in Western countries will continue to rise in developing countries if preventive measures are not widely applied. The most common types of cancer also vary by geographic area. For example, among women breast cancer was the most common cancer in 19 out of the 21 world areas, while cervical cancer was the most common in the remaining two areas. Further variations are observed by examining individual countries. In 2012, the most common cancer site among males in most economically developed countries was prostate, with the exception of certain countries of Southern and Eastern Europe (lung cancer), Slovakia (colorectal cancer), and Japan (stomach cancer). Lung and stomach cancer were the top cancer sites in Asia. The greatest variation among males was in Africa, where the most common cancer was prostate, liver, Kaposi sarcoma, lung, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, colorectal, leukemia, esophagus, or stomach. Among females, the most common cancer sites were either breast or cervical cancer, with the exceptions of China and North Korea (lung), South Korea (thyroid), and Mongolia and Laos (liver). 

We believe our prescription drug candidate PV-10, a novel investigational drug, may afford competitive advantage compared to currently available options for the treatment of certain types of cancer; particularly solid tumors. Additional geographic variations exist as well. In short, we believe PV-10 is appropriate to treat any solid tumor anywhere. We are developing PV-10, a sterile injectable form of rose bengal disodium (Rose Bengal), for direct injection into tumors. It is an ablative immunotherapy or immuno-chemoablative agent that when injected intralesionally is tantamount to an &#147;in situ&#148; vaccination following acute and durable necrosis of diseased tissue. Because PV-10 is retained in diseased or damaged tissue but quickly dissipates from healthy tissue, we believe we can develop therapies that confine treatment to cancerous tissue and reduce collateral impact on healthy tissue. We have conducted phase 1 and phase 2 studies of PV-10 for the treatment of recurrent and metastatic melanoma, and phase 1 studies of PV-10 for the treatment of liver and breast cancers, each of which are described in more detail below. Furthermore, in 2015, we commenced a phase 3 study of PV-10 to treat locally advanced cutaneous melanoma as well as a phase 1b/2 study that combines PV-10 and pembrolizumab, both of which are described in more detail below. 

Recurrent or Locally Advanced Cutaneous Melanoma and Widely Metastatic [Melanoma] Disease 

According to Global Cancer Facts &#38; Figures, 3 rd Edition, estimated new cases for men in developed countries totaled 99,400 in 2012, and 91,700 for women. Estimated deaths continue to increase as well. PV-10 is potentially applicable for treating all stage III and IV patients, either as a neoadjuvant therapy, monotherapy, or in combination with a systemic agent for late stage patients in particular. 

Our Phase 3 clinical trial of intralesional PV-10 as a melanoma treatment is progressing as we expected. We are actively recruiting and treating patients in centers in the U.S. Other sites are now also listed on clinicaltrials.gov and more will be added. We expect to have other sites for the U.S., Australia and elsewhere joining the study soon. We are seeking 225 patients for this study. The primary outcome measure is progression-free survival, PFS, to be assessed every 12 weeks up to 18 months. The secondary outcome measures include complete response rate, CRR, and its duration to be set every 12 weeks up to 18 months and overall survival to be assessed every 12 weeks up to 18 months. Unlike our Phase 2 study, which was a single arm study, the Phase 3 is a randomized trial. And we hope to further demonstrate conclusively that PV-10 is both safe and effective and is statistically superior to the control systemic chemotherapy.

Our estimated primary completion date is September 2017, and an estimated study completion date of October 2017. When 50 percent of the events required for the primary endpoint have occurred, the Independent Data Monitoring Committee will report an interim assessment of efficacy and safety. So, meaningful clinical data could come as early as the middle of this year, which is halfway through the study, as documented on clinicaltrials.gov. 

This phase 3 randomized controlled trial of PV-10 in patients with unresectable locally advanced cutaneous melanoma will assess response to PV-10 versus that of systemic chemotherapy in patients who have disease limited to cutaneous and subcutaneous sites and who have failed or are ineligible for systemic immunotherapy. Progression-free survival and complete response rate will be assessed using standard criteria (RECIST 1.1). Overall survival and exploratory assessment of patient reported outcomes related to lesion pain and other melanoma symptoms will also be assessed. 

&#160;

We are not alone in advocating for an intralesional approach in the treatment of cancer. For melanoma patients with recurrent or in-transit disease confined to their skin this approach has been used to treat patients for many years, as evidenced by guidelines published by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN Guidelines &#174; ) defining the standard of care for cancer treatment in the United States. Intralesional injection with BCG and certain immunomodulatory agents, local ablation, topical therapy for superficial lesions and regional radiotherapy are consensus interventions for these patients, while systemic therapy remains an option and participation in a clinical trial is the preferred option. We believe that, in this context, PV-10 is well positioned to show superiority in phase 3 testing as a single agent. 

For those patients who do not have all disease accessible to injection, medical oncologists have stated that using an agent like PV-10 to prime the immune system could be synergistic in combination with a systemic agent. Our patent application on this strategy was published in 2012 and we have been vigorously pursuing this approach. We believe the nonclinical research we first presented at the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer (SITC) annual meeting that year, together with ongoing translational clinical research on PV-10&#146;s mechanism of action we are sponsoring at Moffitt and our own phase 2 data, provide a rationale for combination testing of PV-10. This development track, separate from the phase 3 study, using PV-10 in combination with checkpoint protein inhibitors could present a path forward for patients with significant disease burden not amenable to intralesional injection. 

While we believe the rapid ablative effect immediately evident in patients treated with PV-10 highlights our path to initial approval, the bystander effect, or secondary immunomodulatory benefit of PV-10 as a result of direct ablation, continues to be of scientific interest and studies to quantify systemic tumor-specific immune response in cancer patients are ongoing. This is why we term the overall function of PV-10 as ablative immunotherapy. This emerging understanding of the secondary effect of tumor ablation with PV-10 is an important foundation for future studies to assess the long-term impact of PV-10 on distant metastasis and possible combination strategies for use of PV-10 in the treatment of cancer patients with more advanced disease. PV-10 is therefore becoming known as an ablative immunotherapy, and we believe it is therefore a next generation ablative immunological treatment. 

As mentioned before, we are also engaged in studying the use of PV-10 as part of a combination therapy for melanoma for Stage 4 patients. Scientifically, combination therapy in cancer treatment is a rapidly maturing area, where a rational combination of agents is replacing the empirical approaches of the past. In this specific instance, we have completed development of the protocol for Phase 1b-2 testing of PV-10 in combination with Merck&#146;s Keytruda in patients with Stage 4 melanoma. And we are actively recruiting and treating patients. Keytruda is an immune checkpoint inhibitor approved for treatment of patients with advanced or unresectable melanoma. The PV-10 mechanism of action study&#146;s preliminary clinical findings reported initially and then further updated by Moffitt Cancer Center showed that the immunologic effect of tumor ablation with PV-10 may be complementary to immune checkpoint inhibition. Companion preclinical testing of PV-10 in murine models of melanoma also reported that the therapeutic effects of PV-10 in immune checkpoint inhibition are increased when the two are used in combination. Put simply, they may work better together, especially for late stage patients. And this Phase 1b-2 study will help us prepare for potential marketing of PV-10 as part of a combination therapy with Keytruda. When we announced the joint patent co-owned with Pfizer in August 2015, it specifically covered the use of PV-10 to treat melanoma and liver cancers in combination with systemic inhibitors of immune system down regulation, such as anti-CTLA-4, PD-1 and PD-L1 antibodies, along with enhancers of immune system up regulation, such as IL-2 and interferon-gamma. In other words, the Keytruda work we have begun is patent protected. 

PV-10 represents both a unique opportunity and an incredible responsibility because the type of agent has the potential to change the way cancer is treated around the world. PV-10 is a small molecule designed to be injected directly into tumors, thereby focusing its effect on disease tissue, while limiting exposure in healthy tissue. We believe that this focused effective tumors has the potential to educate the immune system to find other cancer cells with the same characteristics, thereby potentially having an effect on metastases elsewhere in the body. The work previously reported by our collaborators at Moffitt Cancer Center in Tampa and at the University of Illinois in Chicago clearly indicate that this is taking place in laboratory models of multiple tumor types. Additional information on how this translates to patients was reported November 2015 by the Moffitt team at the Society of Immunotherapy of Cancer Annual Meeting in Washington. We expect information as well to be communicated throughout 2016. 

&#160;

We also report ongoing progress with our Compassionate Use Program for PV-10 for non-visceral cancers. With well over 140 patients enrolled in eight centers across the U.S. and Australia, the protocol enables subjects to undergo more frequent and extensive treatments of PV-10 over a longer period of time than was allowed under the protocol used for the phase 2 trials. Its dosage has been very helpful with planning for the phase 3 melanoma study as well as treating other types of cutaneous and subcutaneous cancers, and we are gratified we can provide PV-10 now for patients that request it who have no other available option. 

We are continuing to assess how much additional work we should do by ourselves, and when to partner with a larger company to further co-develop PV-10, as well as potential paths to accelerated and expedited approval in the U.S. and abroad, including in China and India. 

We strengthened our position in the Chinese market with our letter of intent with Boehringer Ingelheim (China) Investment Company Limited, signed July 2, 2015. We are benefiting from their 20 plus years of experience in China, and we are building a relationship with them that may help us in commercializing and marketing PV-10 in mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, as we work with the appropriate regulatory bodies. We are committed to being successful in China, in particular, and Asia in general.

Discussions have continued on the basis of a memorandum of understanding signed last year with Sinopharm-China State Institute of Pharmaceutical Industry, CSIPI, the leader among all pharmaceutical research institutes in China and Sinopharm A-Think Pharmaceutical Company Limited, Sinopharm A-Think, the only injectable anti-tumor drug research and development manufacturer and distribution integrated platform within Sinopharm Group. While our working arrangement is more developed with Boehringer, management of Provectus and senior personnel and Sinopharm, CSIPI, and Sinopharm A-Think has held numerous conference calls, have met face-to-face in both China and the U.S., and Chinese scientists on staff at Sinopharm have discussed in person PV-10 and its clinical results with various lead investigators we work with globally. Some more formal relationship with them remains an option for us in China, and will endeavor to include Boehringer as well in any future developments and potential partnerships. 

Efforts have been more active in Brazil as we work with potential partners there, and Latin America in general, as well as in India, as we continue our focus to enter into geographic license and our collaborations that allow us to generate meaningful clinical data more rapidly than otherwise. 

We have signed agreements with two manufacturers to supply us with clinical-quality PV-10, and we now have sufficient quantities of PV-10 available to continue the phase 3 trial and our other PV-10 development activities. To assure smooth execution of the study we have lined up specialty contract research organizations (CROs) and other service providers with expertise in clinical operations and integrated data management. As is standard in our industry, this includes full-service, international CROs who will coordinate the global efforts of this team of specialists. 

We have worked to establish an independent Clinical Trial Data Monitoring Committee (DMC). The FDA states &#147;A clinical trial DMC is a group of individuals with pertinent expertise that reviews on a regular basis accumulating data from one or more ongoing clinical trials. The DMC advises the sponsor regarding the continuing safety of trial subjects and those yet to be recruited to the trial, as well as the continuing validity and scientific merit of the trial.&#148; The DMC will ensure that our study provides patients with maximum possible safety while protecting the scientific validity and integrity of the data we gather. 

Liver Cancer 

According to Global Cancer Facts &#38; Figures, 3 rd Edition, liver cancer is the fifth most common cancer in men and the ninth in women. An estimated 782,500 new liver cancer cases occurred in the world during 2012, with China alone accounting for about 50% of the total. Rates are more than twice as high in men as in women. Liver cancer rates are the highest in Central America, West and Central Africa, and East and Southeast Asia (Figure 9). Most primary liver cancers occurring worldwide are hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which likely accounts for 70% to 90% of cases. One type of liver cancer (cholangiocarcinoma) that is rare in most parts of the world has high incidence rates in Thailand and other parts of Asia due to the high prevalence of liver fluke infection. Worldwide, liver cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in men and the sixth leading cause among women, with about 745,500 deaths in 2012. 

Early detection is difficult and as a result, most cases reach an advanced metastatic stage and are unresectable. If the cancer cannot be completely removed, the disease is usually deadly within three to six months. Malignant lesions in the liver arising from HCC or metastases from a wide range of cancers represent an ongoing treatment challenge for oncologists. HCC is one 

&#160;

of the most common malignancies worldwide, and its incidence is rapidly increasing in the United States. The liver is a common site of metastases from solid tumors, particularly those arising in the gastrointestinal tract. Other tumors, such as lung and breast cancer and melanoma, also readily spread to the liver. 

We collaborated with XenoTech, a preclinical CRO and pioneer in collaborative research surrounding in vitro drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics (DMPK) services, in writing an article describing a study to determine the potential of rose bengal disodium to cause drug-drug interactions which has been published by Xenobiotica, a peer-reviewed scientific journal that publishes comprehensive research papers on pharmacokinetics (the study of distribution, metabolism, disposition and excretion of drugs). The published research indicated that the risk of PV-10 causing clinically relevant drug-drug interactions is likely minimal. 

The study was undertaken prior to initiation of the now ongoing testing of PV-10 plus sorafenib (cohort 2) in a clinical trial of PV-10 intralesional injection in hepatocellular carcinoma patients taking a stable dose of sorafenib. Sorafenib is a competitive inhibitor of cytochrome P450 (CYP) drug metabolism enzymes and is reliant on the UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) pathway for efficient clearance. CYP and UGT enzymes help to biotransform small lipophilic drugs like sorafenib into water-soluble excretable metabolites. 

Provectus researchers collaborated with XenoTech&#146;s experts to design the appropriate in vitro experiments necessary to assess the risk for potential liability when rose bengal is co-administered with other drugs in humans. Rose Bengal, known for inducing singlet oxygen on exposure to light, can cause erroneous results in conventional in vitro test systems. These assay artifacts were shown to be test system dependent in DMPK studies. XenoTech scientists successfully tailored experiments to ascertain CYP and UGT inhibition potential in more appropriate model systems. 

We have recently expanded our exploratory phase 1 study of cancers of the liver to three centers (St. Luke&#146;s University Health Network, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, and The Southeastern Center for Digestive Disorders &#38; Pancreatic Cancer, Tampa, Florida, in addition to Sharp Memorial Hospital, San Diego, California), and we are evaluating the addition of several more centers to further advance this initial effort. We are working with our investigators to report results from long-term follow-up of our initial patients in the coming months. We are assessing strategies to accelerate transition to phase 2 testing in a randomized controlled trial, either alone or in combination with systemic therapy. Any combination studies in the liver are likely to follow similar development strategies to those outlined above for melanoma and rely on much of the same foundational science. 

The current phase 1 study, initially designed solely to establish safety of percutaneous injection of PV-10 into liver tumors (that is, injection through the skin), is providing valuable data crucial for planning such phase 2 development. This trial is open to patients with hepatocellular carcinoma or other cancers metastatic to the liver who have at least one tumor that has either originated in or spread to the liver and are not candidates for surgery or transplant. All patients enrolled in this open-label study receive the same treatment: an interventional radiologist injects PV-10 percutaneously into a single liver tumor. Patients with multiple injectable tumors may later receive further PV-10 to their other tumors. We have received numerous inquiries about this study from researchers as well as patients and their doctors, and refer these to our investigators through the contact information available on the clinicaltrials.gov website. We plan to commence the phase 1b/2 liver study in early 2016. This study has potential for generating sufficient data to support expedited approval under one or more FDA programs. 

In July 2015, data were presented at two conferences that show our progress to date on the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma and cancers metastatic to the liver. We made a poster presentation at the ESMO 17th World Congress on Gastrointestinal Cancer (ESMO GI) in Barcelona at the beginning of July, and detailed data from our relevant Phase 1 study of PV-10. The main conclusion was that preliminary evidence of efficacy in treatment of cancers of the liver with PV-10 was observed. That same week, Dr. Sanjiv Agarwala presented the data in poster form at the 6th Asia-Pacific Primary Liver Cancer Expert Meeting, APPLE 2015, in Osaka, Japan. Both of these posters can be found on our website pvct.com. What these data show is that PV-10 affects cancers of the liver in much the same way it does melanoma. More work has to be done, but we believe that these results support rapidly development of PV-10 in a randomized Phase 2 study after dosing with standard of care is optimized. This is the Phase 1b/2 study we also refer to above. 

Breast Cancer 

According to Global Cancer Facts &#38; Figures, 3 rd Edition, breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in women worldwide with nearly 1.7 million new cases diagnosed in 2012, accounting for 25% of all new cancer cases in women. A little more than half (53%) of these cases occurred in economically developing countries, which represents about 82% of the 

&#160;

world population. An estimated 521,900 breast cancer deaths occurred in women in 2012. Breast cancer is the leading cause of cancer death among women in developing countries and the second leading cause of cancer death (following lung cancer) among women in developed countries. Asian countries, which represent 59% of the global population, have the largest burden of breast cancer, with 39% of new cases, 44% of deaths, and 37% of the world&#146;s five-year survivors. Although Northern America (US and Canada) represents only 5% of the world population, it accounts for 15% of new cases, 9% of deaths, and 17% of survivors, reflecting the high incidence and survival rates in the region. In contrast, African countries (15% of world population) represent 8% of the total new cases, but 12% of breast cancer deaths because of poor survival due to late stage at diagnosis and limited treatment. 

In 2005, we began a phase 1 study of PV-10 to assess the safety and tolerability of injections of PV-10 into recurrent breast carcinoma. We completed the phase 1 study in 2008. The primary outcome measure was systemic and locoregional adverse experience. The secondary outcome measures were (i) histopathologic response of PV-10 injected lesions and (ii) wound healing of PV-10 injected lesions. 

The goals of the phase 1 clinical trial were to determine the safety of the treatment and the appropriate dosage. We have also wanted to show that PV-10 has multi-indication potential. We continued to demonstrate this objective in 2011 through 2015, and expect to do so in 2016. We are now in a position for a phase 2 study in recurrent breast carcinoma with our lead oncology drug product candidate PV-10. We are evaluating potential for further development of PV-10 to treat recurrent breast cancer based on the published data provided by Moffitt as well as interest to address this important indication. 

Colon and Rectum Cancer 

According to Global Cancer Facts &#38; Figures, 3 rd Edition Colon and Rectum, colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer in men and the second in women. Worldwide, an estimated 1.4 million cases of colorectal cancer occurred in 2012. The highest incidence rates were in Northern America, Australia, New Zealand, Europe, and South Korea. Rates were low in Africa and South Central Asia. About 693,900 deaths from colorectal cancer occurred in 2012 worldwide, accounting for 8% of all cancer deaths. The incidence of colorectal cancer is increasing in certain countries where risk was historically low (e.g., Japan). 

The greatest increases are in Asia (Japan, Kuwait, and Israel) and Eastern Europe (Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Slovenia). In fact, incidence rates among males in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Japan have exceeded the peak rates observed in longstanding developed countries, such as the United States, Canada, and Australia, and continue to increase. In high-risk/high-income countries, trends over the past 20 years have either gradually increased (Finland and Norway), stabilized (France and Australia), or declined (United States) with time. The decrease in colorectal cancer incidence in the United States among those 50 years of age and older partially reflects the increase in detection and removal of precancerous lesions through screening. In contrast to the stabilizing rates observed in most Western and Northern European countries, relatively large increases have been observed in Spain, which may be related to the increasing prevalence of obesity in recent years in that country. The increase in several Asian and Eastern European countries may also reflect increased prevalence of risk factors for colorectal cancer associated with westernization such as unhealthy diet, obesity, and smoking. In contrast to incidence trends, decreasing colorectal cancer mortality rates have been observed in a large number of countries worldwide and are most likely due to colorectal cancer screening and/or improved treatments. However, increases in mortality rates are still occurring in countries that have more limited resources, including Brazil and Chile in South America and Romania and Russia in Eastern Europe. 

On February 2, 2015, data discussing the immunologic effects of PV-10 on colon cancer cells were presented at the 11th Annual Academic Surgical Congress in Jacksonville, Florida. The abstract, titled &#147;PV-10 Induces Potent Immunogenic Apoptosis in Colon Cancer Cells,&#148; was presented by N. M. Kunda of the University of Illinois at Chicago, Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, College of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. The research team is led by Dr. A.V. Maker, and co-authors in addition to Drs. Kunda and Maker are: J. Qin, G. Qiao also of UIC, Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery. The team of authors also includes B. Prabhakarof the University of Illinois at Chicago, Department of Microbiology &#38; Immunology, College of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. Dr. Maker belongs to both Departments. 

In the presentation, Dr. Kunda noted that in vitro testing of PV-10 on colon cancer (murine CT-26 cells) showed cytotoxicity consistent with immunogenic apoptosis. Further, he stated that the researchers observed cell arrest, apoptosis, autophagy and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. He concluded that these results are consistent with immunologic cell death caused by PV-10. 

&#160;

The work reported in Dr. Kunda&#146;s presentation further expands our understanding of the mechanism of action of PV-10 as an ablative immunotherapy for solid tumors, and parallels immunologic signaling noted upon ablation of melanoma with PV-10. 

Other Indications 

The compassionate use program for PV-10 is only available for cancer indications that do not involve treatment of visceral organs and are not subject to enrollment in ongoing clinical trials. These indications include certain breast cancers, basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, certain head and neck cancers and melanoma. Compassionate use programs provide patients with access to experimental therapeutics prior to FDA approval. 

The protocol for the compassionate use program enables subjects to undergo more frequent and extensive treatments of PV-10 over a longer period of time than was allowed under the protocol used for the phase 2 trial of PV-10. Based on the success of the compassionate use program, its dose regimen served as the blueprint for the phase 3 study for melanoma. The majority of patients enrolled in the program have been treated for melanoma, with other patients for other indications such as recurrent squamous cell carcinoma and refractory scalp sarcoma. 

Additionally, we are considering a clinical study of PV-10 for each of multiple other solid tumor indications. 

Dermatology (PH-10) 

Our prescription drug candidate PH-10 is an aqueous hydrogel formulation of Rose Bengal for topical administration to the skin. It is a novel nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent that interacts with ambient and other light sources. We believe PH-10 is appropriate to treat all indications that are described as inflammatory dermatoses. We are developing PH-10 for the treatment of cutaneous skin disorders, specifically psoriasis and atopic dermatitis, and we believe that PH-10 may be successful in treating other skin diseases. We believe that PH-10 offers a superior treatment for psoriasis and atopic dermatitis because it selectively treats diseased tissue with negligible potential for side effects in healthy tissue. 

We have been actively discussing licensing transactions with a number of potential out licensing partners for PH-10. We believe that our phase 2c trial of PH-10 for psoriasis will further solidify the commercial viability of PH-10 in these discussions. In August 2011, we completed follow-up of all phase 2c patients and communicated data of the study to both prospective partners as well as the public market in early 2012. In January 2015, we commenced a mechanism of action study of PH-10 to better characterize the unique immunologic signaling aspects along with PH-10 safety and efficacy. This study was completed in January 2016 and data will be reported when available this year. 

Psoriasis 

Psoriasis is a common chronic disorder of the skin characterized by dry scaling patches, called &#147;plaques,&#148; for which current treatments are few and those that are available have potentially serious side effects. There is no known cure for the disease at this time. According to the National Institutes of Health, as many as 7.5 million Americans, or approximately 2.2 percent of the U.S. population, have psoriasis. The National Psoriasis Foundation reports that approximately 125 million people worldwide, 2 to 3 percent of the total population, have psoriasis. It also reports that total direct and indirect health care costs of psoriasis for patients exceed $11 billion annually. 

According to the National Psoriasis Foundation, the majority of psoriasis sufferers, those with mild to moderate cases, are treated with topical steroids that can have unpleasant side effects. None of the other treatments for moderate cases of psoriasis have proven completely effective. The 25-30% of psoriasis patients who suffer from more severe cases generally are treated with more intensive drug therapies or PUVA, a light-based therapy that combines the drug Psoralen with exposure to ultraviolet A light. While PUVA is one of the more effective treatments, it increases a patient&#146;s risk of skin cancer. 

Our phase 1 study for PH-10 was initiated in April 2001 to evaluate the safety of three different doses of PH-10 in separate patient segment groups. Subjects in the study each received a single dose of PH-10 followed by administration of green light on psoriatic plaques. Subjects were examined post-treatment, with a final follow-up examination at 90 days. 

Our phase 2 study of PH-10 for treatment of psoriasis was initiated in 2009 and completed in April 2010. There were 30 subjects treated in the completed phase 2 study, and an additional six subjects were treated in an earlier study that was terminated in favor of an increased dosing frequency. Consistent with the preliminary data that we announced in December 2009, 70% of the 30 subjects enrolled in the phase 2 clinical trial of PH-10 for psoriasis demonstrated improvement in their Psoriasis Severity Index (PSI) scores at the end of four weeks of daily treatment with PH-10. In addition, 86% of subjects reported no or only mild pruritus (itching) by week four of the trial, and no significant safety issues were noted. At the four-week interval substantial improvement was observed across all standard disease assessment scores. 

&#160;

During 2010, we initiated a phase 2c clinical trial of PH-10 for psoriasis. This multicenter, randomized controlled phase 2c study enrolled 99 subjects at four different sites, which began in December 2010. The subjects were randomized sequentially by center to one of four treatment cohorts, and assessed efficacy and safety of topical PH-10 applied once daily to areas of mild to moderate plaque psoriasis. The primary efficacy endpoint was &#147;treatment success,&#148; a static endpoint assessed at day 29 after initial PH-10 treatment and defined as 0 or 1 on all Psoriasis Severity Index (PSI) components and 0 or 1 on the Plaque Response scale. The primary safety endpoint was incidence of adverse experiences, including pain and dermatologic/skin toxicity (incidence, severity, frequency, duration and causality). The secondary outcome measures were (i) Psoriasis Severity Index (PSI) score changes at each visit from day 1 pre-treatment, (ii) Plaque Response score changes at each visit from day 1 pre-treatment, and (iii) Pruritus Self-Assessment score changes at each visit from day 1 pre-treatment. 

The phase 2c trial was conducted at four sites in the U.S. including the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City, Wake Research Associates in Raleigh, North Carolina, Dermatology Specialists in Oceanside, California, and International Dermatology Research in Miami, Florida. With over 90 subjects, this trial is the largest dermatological trial that we have conducted to date. 

The results of this study helped define the parameters necessary for the design of a pivotal phase 3 trial, and it was an important milestone on the regulatory pathway leading towards commercialization. In addition, we have held discussions with a number of potential out licensing partners, and we believe this phase 2c trial has further solidified the commercial viability of PH-10 in these discussions. We have also continued important toxicity study research and development in 2012 through 2014 and into 2015 to prepare for a phase 3 study and to support a New Drug Approval filing. 

On December 23, 2014, we announced that the protocol for our phase 2 study of the mechanism of action of PH-10 in psoriasis is now available on ClinicalTrials.gov, Identifier NCT02322086: [https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02322086]. The purpose of the trial is to study the safety and efficacy of PH-10, a 0.005% preparation of Rose Bengal, in the treatment of psoriasis. 

Officially titled, &#147;A Phase 2 Study of Cellular and Immunologic Changes in the Skin of Subjects Receiving PH-10 Aqueous Hydrogel to Plaque Psoriasis,&#148; total enrollment is expected to consist of 30 patients. Subjects will apply PH-10 vehicle daily for 28 consecutive days followed by active PH-10 daily for 28 consecutive days to their plaque psoriasis areas on the trunk or extremities (excluding palms, soles, scalp, facial and intertriginous sites). Biopsies of one target plaque will be collected at baseline (at least 7 days prior to first study treatment on Day 1) and at Days 29 and 64, with a 7-day interval between biopsy at Day 29 at the end of vehicle application and commencement of application of active PH-10 on Day 36. Study data from each subject will serve as an internal control (i.e., with assessment at baseline and at the end of application of PH-10 vehicle) for evaluation of clinical and cellular response to active investigational agent. 

The protocol states that the multicenter study is designed to assess treated psoriatic plaque for &#147;changes in immunologic, structural and hyperproliferative state and for any evidence of cellular atypia&#148; when treated with PH-10 and to &#147;correlate observed changes in the skin with clinical response to treatment.&#148; These assessments are expected to advance the understanding of the mechanism of action of PH-10 in psoriasis and other inflammatory dermatoses, such as atopic dermatitis, and further substantiate the safety profile of the agent. Biopsy specimens will be assessed for changes in epidermal hyperplasia (i.e., disordered condition of the skin creating thickening and scaling); infiltration with immune cells; and molecular markers of inflammation. Correlation of clinical response to these cellular and molecular changes will be performed at the plaque level using Psoriasis Severity Index (PSI) assessment data. Safety will be assessed by monitoring the frequency, duration, severity and attribution of clinical adverse events; evaluating changes in laboratory values and vital signs; and by correlation of clinical adverse events with observed histopathologic and immunohistopathologic changes in the skin. 

By capturing data at the clinical and cellular level, we expect this study to allow us to establish how PH-10 affects psoriatic plaque and other similar inflammatory diseases of the skin, and to relate the safety profile from earlier studies to such effects. We believe that understanding these effects with this level of detail will allow us to properly position PH-10 within the competitive landscape and should provide crucial safety data to support extended dosing. We expect this effort to provide a comparable level of understanding of the effects of PH-10 in diseased skin to the keen insight we have gained through our clinical and nonclinical mechanism studies of PV-10, our novel investigational cancer drug, in melanoma and other cancers. Because there are no good model systems for psoriasis, we believe this study affords a critical opportunity to link the clinical effects we have observed to changes in well-established immunologic drivers of the disease. The study will be performed at three centers in the United States. 

&#160;

On January 29, 2015, we announced that we have opened recruitment for our PH-10 mechanism study. PH-10 has already been testing phase 1 and 2 studies and a total of 226 patients. In this study, we are looking at possible changes in the immunologic, structural and hyperproliferative state of the skin in the target plaque and evidence of cellular atypia following PH-10 application. We will use this data to aid in further development of PH-10 with our objective to co-develop or license PH-10 with dermatological partner as we continue to prepare to advance PH-10 for approval as topical anti-inflammatory non-steroidal agent for treating psoriasis and other inflammatory dermatoses. According to clinicaltrials.gov, the estimated completion date of the study was January 2016 and data is now being compiled for communication to the FDA and the public. 

Atopic Dermatitis 

Atopic Dermatitis, the most severe and common type of eczema, is a long-term skin disease that causes dry and itchy skin, rashes on the face, inside the elbows, behind the knees, and on the hands and feet. Scratching of the afflicted skin can cause redness, swelling, cracking, weeping clear fluid, crusting, thick skin, and scaling. According to the National Eczema Association, physicians estimate that 65% of eczema patients are diagnosed in the first year of life and 90% of patients experience it before age five. Often the symptoms fade during childhood, though most will have atopic dermatitis for life. The National Eczema Association estimates that atopic dermatitis affects over 30 million Americans. 

In 2008, we initiated a phase 2 study of PH-10 for the treatment of atopic dermatitis. This phase 2 study assessed whether topical PH-10 applied once daily to mild, moderate or severe atopic dermatitis may ameliorate inflammation of the skin when activated by ambient light. The subjects applied PH-10 daily for 28 days to skin areas affected by atopic dermatitis. The subjects were assessed weekly during the treatment period and for four weeks following the treatment period. The primary outcome measures were (i) treatment success, defined as a score of 0 to 1 at day 28, the end of the study treatment period, by the Investigator&#146;s Global Assessment (IGA) scoring system for atopic dermatitis status, and (ii) adverse experience, including pain and dermatologic/skin toxicity (incidence, severity, frequency, duration and causality) during the eight weeks following treatment. 

Data from the subjects indicated that a substantial majority of subjects had improvement in the Eczema Area Severity Index (EASI) during four weeks of treatment. The treatments were generally well tolerated with no significant safety issues identified. At the four-week interval substantial improvement was observed across all standard disease assessment scores. We have also continued important toxicity study research and development in 2012 through 2015 and thus far in 2016 to prepare for continued development in this indication and to support a New Drug Approval filing. 

Other Indications 

We have investigated the use of PH-10 for treatment of actinic keratosis (also called solar keratosis or senile keratosis), which is the most common pre-cancerous skin lesion among fair-skinned people and is estimated to occur in over 50% of elderly fair-skinned persons living in sunny climates. We have previously conducted a phase I clinical trial of PH-10 for actinic keratosis to examine the safety profile of a single treatment using topical PH-10 with green light photoactivation. No significant safety concerns were identified in the study. We have decided to prioritize further clinical development of PH-10 for treatment of psoriasis and atopic dermatitis rather than actinic keratosis at this time since the market is much larger for psoriasis and atopic dermatitis. 

We have also conducted pre-clinical studies of PH-10 for use in treating severe acne vulgaris. Moderate to severe forms of the disease have proven responsive to several photodynamic regimens, and we anticipate that PH-10 can be used as an advanced treatment for this disease. Our pre-clinical studies show that the active ingredient in PH-10 readily kills bacteria associated with acne. This finding, coupled with our clinical experience in psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, and actinic keratosis, suggests that therapy with PH-10 will exhibit no significant side effects and will afford improved performance relative to other therapeutic alternatives. If correct, this would be a major advance over currently available products for severe acne. 

The active ingredient in PH-10 is photoactive in that it reacts to light of certain wavelengths thereby potentially increasing its therapeutic effects. We believe that photodynamic treatment regimens can deliver a higher therapeutic effect at lower dosages of active ingredient, thus minimizing potential side effects including damage to nearby healthy tissues. PH-10 is especially responsive to green light, which is strongly absorbed by the skin and thus only penetrates the body to a depth of about three to five millimeters. For this reason, in the past we have investigated PH-10 combined with green-light activation, for topical use in surface applications where serious damage could result if medicinal effects were to occur in deeper tissues. 

Over-the-Counter Pharmaceuticals 

We have designated our subsidiary that holds our OTC products, GloveAid and Pure-ific, Pure-Stick, Pure N Clear as non-core. The potential further development and licensure of our OTC products would likely be facilitated by selling a majority 

&#160;

stake of the underlying assets of the non-core subsidiary holding the OTC products. This transaction would likely be accomplished through a non-core spin-out process, which would enable the non-core subsidiary to become a separate publicly held company. The new public entity could then raise funds without diluting the ownership of the then current stockholders of the Company, although there can be no assurance that this process will occur. 

GloveAid 

Personnel in many occupations and industries now use disposable gloves daily in the performance of their jobs, including airport security personnel, food handling and preparation personnel, health care workers such as hospital and blood bank personnel, laboratory researchers, police, fire and emergency response personnel, postal and package delivery handlers and sorters, and sanitation workers. 

Accompanying the increased use of disposable gloves is a mounting incidence of chronic skin irritation. To address this market, we have developed GloveAid, a hand cream with both antiperspirant and antibacterial properties, to increase the comfort of users&#146; hands during and after the wearing of disposable gloves. During 2003, we ran a pilot scale run at the manufacturer of GloveAid. 

Pure-ific 

Our Pure-ific line of products includes two quick-drying sprays, Pure-ific and Pure-ific Kids, that immediately kill up to 99.9% of germs on skin and prevent regrowth for six hours. We have determined the effectiveness of Pure-ific based on our internal testing and testing performed by Paratus Laboratories H.B., an independent research lab. Pure-ific products help prevent the spread of germs and thus complement our other OTC products designed to treat irritated skin or skin conditions such as acne, eczema, dandruff and fungal infections. Our Pure-ific sprays have been designed with convenience in mind and are targeted towards mothers, travelers, and anyone concerned about the spread of sickness-causing germs. During 2003 and 2004, we identified and engaged sales and brokerage forces for Pure-ific. We emphasized getting sales in independent pharmacies and mass (chain stores) markets. The supply chain for Pure-ific was established with the ability to support large-scale sales and a starting inventory was manufactured and stored in a contract warehouse/fulfillment center. In addition, a website for Pure-ific was developed with the ability for supporting online sales of the antibacterial hand spray. During 2005 and 2006, most of our sales were generated from customers accessing our website for Pure-ific and making purchases online. We discontinued our proof-of-concept program in November 2006 and have, therefore, ceased selling our OTC products. We now intend to license the Pure-ific product, a strategy we have been discussing with interested groups. Additionally, we also intend to sell a majority stake in the underlying assets via a non-core spin-out transaction, as discussed below. 

On December 15, 2011, we sold Units to accredited investors which included shares of common stock in Pure-ific and a warrant to purchase 3/4 of a share of the Company&#146;s common stock. A total of 666,666 Units were sold for gross proceeds of $500,000 resulting in the sale of a 33% non-controlling interest in Pure-ific. At the time of the sale and as of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of the net assets in Pure-ific was $0. The sale also resulted in the issuance of warrants to purchase 500,000 shares of the Company&#146;s common stock at an exercise price of $1.25 per share with a five-year term. We intend to use the proceeds, after deducting offering expenses of approximately $56,500, to spin-off Pure-ific as a new publicly-traded company, a process we have initiated but have not yet completed. Network 1 Financial Securities, Inc., served as placement agent for the offering. 

Acne 

Our acne products Pure-Stick and Pure N Clear work by decreasing the production of fats, oils and sweat that create an environment conducive to unchecked growth of bacteria. Secondly, the products also act to reduce the number of bacteria already present. Pure-Stick and Pure N Clear represent new formulations of proven, safe ingredients that achieve both steps required to successfully treat acne. Since Pure-Stick and Pure N Clear are applied topically to affected areas there are no safety concerns with healthy skin. The unique combinations have allowed the Company to secure patent protection for these products. 

Medical Devices 

We have non-core medical device technologies that we believe may address two major markets: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; cosmetic treatments, such as reduction of wrinkles and elimination of spider veins and other cosmetic blemishes; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; therapeutic uses, including photoactivation of PH-10, other prescription drugs and non-surgical destruction of certain skin cancers. &#160;

We expect to further develop our non-core medical devices through partnerships with, or selling our assets to, third-party device manufacturers or, if appropriate opportunities arise, through acquisition of one or more device manufacturers. Additionally, the Company also intends to sell a majority stake in the underlying assets via a non-core spin-out transaction. 

Photoactivation 

Our clinical tests of PH-10 for dermatology have in the past utilized a number of commercially available lasers for activation of the drug. This approach has several advantages, including the leveraging of an extensive base of installed devices present throughout the pool of potential physician-adopters for PH-10. Access to such a base could play an integral role in early market capture. However, since the use of such lasers, which were designed for occasional use in other types of dermatological treatment, is potentially too cumbersome and costly for routine treatment of the large population of patients with psoriasis, we have begun investigating potential use of other types of photoactivation hardware, such as light booths. The use of such booths is consistent with current care standards in the dermatology field, and may provide a cost-effective means for addressing the needs of patients and physicians alike. We anticipate that such photoactivation hardware would be developed, manufactured, and supported in conjunction with one or more third-party device manufacturers. 

Laser-Based Treatment of Melanoma 

We have conducted extensive research on ocular melanoma at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary (a teaching affiliate of Harvard Medical School) using a new laser treatment that may offer significant advantage over current treatment options. A single quick non-invasive treatment of ocular melanoma tumors in a rabbit model resulted in elimination of over 90% of tumors, and may afford significant advantage over invasive alternatives, such as surgical excision, enucleation, or radiotherapy implantation. Ocular melanoma is rare, with approximately 2,000 new cases annually in the U.S. However, we believe that our extremely successful results could be extrapolated to treatment of primary melanomas of the skin, which have an incidence of over 60,000 new cases annually in the U.S. and a 6% five-year survival rate after metastasis of the tumor. We have performed similar laser treatments on large (averaging approximately 3 millimeters thick) cutaneous melanoma tumors implanted in mice, and have been able to eradicate over 90% of these pigmented skin tumors with a single treatment. Moreover, we have shown that this treatment stimulates an anti-tumor immune response that may lead to improved outcome at both the treatment site and at sites of distant metastasis. From these results, we believe that a device for laser treatment of primary melanomas of the skin and eye is nearly ready for human studies. We anticipate partnering with, or selling our assets to, a medical device manufacturer to bring it to market in reliance on a 510(k) notification. For more information about the 510(k) notification process, see &#147;Federal Regulation of Therapeutic Products&#148; below. 

Research and Development 

We continue to actively develop projects that are product-directed and are attempting to conserve available capital and achieve full capitalization of our company through equity and convertible debt offerings, generation of product revenues, and other means. All ongoing research and development activities are directed toward maximizing shareholder value and advancing our corporate objectives in conjunction with our OTC product licensure, our current product development and maintaining our intellectual property portfolio. 

Research and development costs totaling $10,708,569 for 2015 included payroll of $2,292,710, consulting and contract labor of $6,652,406, lab supplies and pharmaceutical preparations of $1,115,140, legal of $358,582, insurance of $189,358, rent and utilities of $87,208, and depreciation expense of $13,165. Research and development costs totaling $5,137,927 for 2014 included payroll of $1,395,321, consulting and contract labor of $2,355,780, lab supplies and pharmaceutical preparations of $790,653, legal of $384,061, insurance of $115,957, rent and utilities of $87,623, and depreciation expense of $8,532. Research and development costs totaling $3,595,555 for 2013 included payroll of $1,459,057, consulting and contract labor of $1,317,472, lab supplies and pharmaceutical preparations of $310,160, legal of $262,720, insurance of $161,268, rent and utilities of $78,512, and depreciation expense of $6,366. 

Production 

We have determined that the most efficient use of our capital in further developing our OTC products is to license the products. The Company has been discussing this strategy with interested groups. Additionally, the Company also intends to sell a majority stake in the underlying assets via a non-core spin-out transaction. 

Sales 

We have not had any significant sales of any of our OTC products, though we commenced limited sales of Pure-ific, our antibacterial hand spray in 2004 through 2006, in a proof-of-concept program. We discontinued our proof-of-concept 

&#160;

program in 2006 and have, therefore, ceased selling our OTC products. We will continue to seek additional markets for our products through existing distributorships that market and distribute medical products, ethical pharmaceuticals, and OTC products for the professional and consumer marketplaces through licensure, partnership and asset sale arrangements, and through potential merger and acquisition candidates. 

In addition to developing products ourselves, we are negotiating actively with a number of potential licensees for several of our intellectual properties, including patents and related technologies. To date, we have not yet entered into any licensing agreements; however, we anticipate consummating one or more such licenses in the future. 

&#160;

Intellectual Property 

Patents 

We hold a number of U.S. patents covering the technologies we have developed and are continuing to develop for the production of prescription drugs, non-core technologies and OTC pharmaceuticals. All patents material to an understanding of the Company are included and a cross reference to a discussion that explains the patent technologies and products is identified for each patent in the following table: 

&#160;

U.S. Patent No 

&#160; Title and Cross Reference 

&#160; Issue Date 

&#160; Expiration Date 

5,829,448 &#160; Method for improved selectivity in activation of molecular agents; see discussion under Medical Devices in Description of Business &#160; November 3, 1998 &#160; October 30, 2016 5,832,931 &#160; Method for improved selectivity in photo-activation and detection of diagnostic agents; see discussion under Medical Devices in Description of Business &#160; November 10, 1998 &#160; October 30, 2016 5,998,597 &#160; Method for improved selectivity in activation of molecular agents; see discussion under Medical Devices in Description of Business &#160; December 7, 1999 &#160; October 30, 2016 6,042,603 &#160; Method for improved selectivity in photo-activation of molecular agents; see discussion under Medical Devices in Description of Business &#160; March 28, 2000 &#160; October 30, 2016 6,331,286 &#160; Methods for high energy phototherapeutics; see discussion under Oncology in Description of Business &#160; December 18, 2001 &#160; February 27, 2019 6,451,597 &#160; Method for enhanced protein stabilization and for production of cell lines useful production of such stabilized proteins; see discussion under Material Transfer Agreement in Description of Intellectual Property &#160; September 17, 2002 &#160; April 6, 2020 6,468,777 &#160; Method for enhanced protein stabilization and for production of cell lines useful production of such stabilized proteins; see discussion under Material Transfer Agreement in Description of Intellectual Property &#160; October 22, 2002 &#160; April 6, 2020 6,493,570 &#160; Method for improved imaging and photodynamic therapy; see discussion under Oncology in Description of Business &#160; December 10, 2002 &#160; November 2, 2018 6,495,360 &#160; Method for enhanced protein stabilization for production of cell lines useful production of such stabilized proteins; see discussion under Material Transfer Agreement in Description of Intellectual Property &#160; December 17, 2002 &#160; April 6, 2020 6,519,076 &#160; Methods and apparatus for optical imaging; see discussion under Medical Devices in Description of Business &#160; February 11, 2003 &#160; October 30, 2016 6,525,862 &#160; Methods and apparatus for optical imaging; see discussion under Medical Devices in Description of Business &#160; February 25, 2003 &#160; October 30, 2016 6,541,223 &#160; Method for enhanced protein stabilization and for production of cell lines useful production of such stabilized proteins; see discussion under Material Transfer Agreement in Description of Intellectual Property &#160; April 1, 2003 &#160; April 6, 2020 6,986,740 &#160; Ultrasound contrast using halogenated xanthenes; see discussion under Oncology in Description of Business &#160; January 17, 2006 &#160; August 3, 2019 &#160;

U.S. Patent No 

&#160; Title and Cross Reference 

&#160; Issue Date 

&#160; Expiration Date 

6,991,776 &#160; Improved intracorporeal medicaments for high energy phototherapeutic treatment of disease; see discussion under Oncology in Description of Business &#160; January 31, 2006 &#160; August 24, 2019 7,036,516 &#160; Treatment of pigmented tissues using optical energy; see discussion under Medical Devices in Description of Business &#160; May 2, 2006 &#160; October 30, 2016 7,201,914 &#160; Combination antiperspirant and antimicrobial compositions; see discussion under Over-the-Counter Pharmaceuticals in Description of Business &#160; April 10, 2007 &#160; May 15, 2024 7,338,652 &#160; Diagnostic Agents for Positron Emission Imaging; see discussion under Oncology in Description of Business &#160; March 4, 2008 &#160; November 2, 2018 7,346,387 &#160; Improved Selectivity in Photo-Activation and Detection of Molecular Diagnostic Agents; see discussion under Medical Devices in Description of Business &#160; March 18, 2008 &#160; October 30, 2016 7,353,829 &#160; Improved Methods and Apparatus For Multi-Photon Photo-Activation of Therapeutic Agents; see discussion under Medical Devices in Description of Business &#160; April 8, 2008 &#160; October 30, 2016 7,384,623 &#160; A Radiosensitizer Agent comprising Tetrabromoerythrosin; see discussion under Oncology in Description of Business &#160; June 10, 2008 &#160; October 30, 2016 7,390,668 &#160; Intracorporeal photodynamic medicaments for photodynamic treatment containing a halogenated xanthene or derivative; see discussion under Dermatology in Description of Business &#160; June 24, 2008 &#160; October 30, 2016 7,402,299 &#160; Intracorporeal photodynamic medicaments for photodynamic treatment containing a halogenated xanthene or derivative; see discussion under Dermatology in Description of Business &#160; July 22, 2008 &#160; September 1, 2017 7,427,389 &#160; Diagnostic Agents for Positron Emission Imaging; see discussion under Oncology in Description of Business &#160; September 23, 2008 &#160; October 30, 2016 7,648,695 &#160; Improved Medicaments for chemotherapeutic treatment of disease; see discussion under Oncology in Description of Business &#160; January 19, 2010 &#160; October 30, 2016 7,863,047 &#160; Improved intracorporeal medicaments for photodynamic treatment of disease; see discussion under Dermatology in Description of Business &#160; January 4, 2011 &#160; October 30, 2016 8,470,296 &#160; Improved intracorporeal medicaments for high energy photodynamic treatment of disease; see discussion under Dermatology in Description of Business &#160; June 25, 2013 &#160; July 28, 2022 8,530,675 &#160; Process for the synthesis rose bengal and related xanthenes; see discussion under Oncology in Description of Business &#160; September 10, 2013 &#160; April 21, 2031 8,557,298 &#160; Chemotherapeutic agents for cancer; see discussion under Oncology in Description of Business &#160; October 15, 2013 &#160; October 30, 2016 8,974,363 &#160; Topical medicaments for disease; see discussion under Dermatology in Description of Business &#160; February 10, 2015 &#160; December 2, 2019 9,107,887 &#160; Combination therapy for cancer; see discussion under Oncology in Description of Business &#160; August 15, 2015 &#160; March 9, 2032 We continue to pursue patent applications on numerous other developments we believe to be patentable. We consider our issued patents, our pending and patent applications, and any patentable inventions which we may develop to be extremely valuable assets of our business. 

&#160;

Material Transfer Agreement 

We have entered into a &#147;Material Transfer Agreement&#148; dated as of July 31, 2003 with Schering-Plough Animal Health Corporation, which we refer to as &#147;SPAH&#148;, the animal-health subsidiary of Schering-Plough Corporation, a major international pharmaceutical company which is still in effect. Under the Material Transfer Agreement, we will provide SPAH with access to some of our patented technologies to permit SPAH to evaluate those technologies for use in animal-health applications. If SPAH determines that it can commercialize our technologies, then the Material Transfer Agreement obligates us and SPAH to enter into a license agreement providing for us to license those technologies to SPAH in exchange for progress payments upon the achievement of goals. 

The Material Transfer Agreement covers four U.S. patents that cover biological material manufacturing technologies (i.e., biotech related). The Material Transfer Agreement continues indefinitely, unless SPAH terminates it by giving us notice or determines that it does not wish to secure from us a license for our technologies. The Material Transfer Agreement can also be terminated by either of us in the event the other party breaches the agreement and does not cure the breach within 30 days of notice from the other party. We cannot assure you that SPAH will determine that it can commercialize our technologies or that the goals required for us to obtain progress payments from SPAH will be achieved. 

The Company has received no &#147;progress payments&#148; in relation to its Material Transfer Agreement with SPAH. Progress payments could potentially total $50,000 for the first cell line for which SPAH uses our technology and $25,000 for each use of the same technology thereafter. We do not know how many cell lines SPAH may have and we currently have no indication from SPAH that it intends to use any of our technologies in the foreseeable future. 

Additionally, the Company also intends to sell a majority stake in these underlying assets via a non-core spin-out transaction. 

Competition 

In general, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive, characterized by rapid advances in products and technology. A number of companies have developed and continue to develop products that address the areas we have targeted. Some of these companies are major pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies that are international in scope and very large in size, while others are niche players that may be less familiar but have been successful in one or more areas we are targeting. Existing or future pharmaceutical, device, or other competitors may develop products that accomplish similar functions to our technologies in ways that are less expensive, receive faster regulatory approval, or receive greater market acceptance than our products. Many of our competitors have been in existence for considerably longer than we have, have greater capital resources, broader internal structure for research, development, manufacturing and marketing, and are in many ways further along in their respective product cycles. 

While it is possible that eventually we may compete directly with major pharmaceutical companies, we believe it is more likely that we will enter into joint development, marketing, or other licensure arrangements with such competitors. Eventually, we believe that we will be acquired. 

We also have a number of market areas in common with traditional skincare cosmetics companies, but in contrast to these companies, our products are based on unique, proprietary formulations and approaches. For example, we are unaware of any products in our targeted OTC skincare markets that are similar to our Pure-ific product. Further, proprietary protection of our products may help limit or prevent market erosion until our patents expire. 

Federal Regulation of Therapeutic Products 

All of the prescription drugs we currently contemplate developing will require approval by the FDA prior to sales within the United States and by comparable foreign agencies prior to sales outside the United States. The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies impose substantial requirements on the manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. These agencies and other entities extensively regulate, among other things, research and development activities and the testing, manufacturing, quality control, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our proposed products. While we attempt to minimize and avoid significant regulatory bars when formulating our products, some degree of regulation from these regulatory agencies is unavoidable. Some of the things we do to attempt to minimize and avoid significant regulatory bars include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Using chemicals and combinations already allowed by the FDA; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Using drugs that have been previously approved by the FDA and that have a long history of safe use; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Using chemical compounds with known safety profiles &#160;

The regulatory process required by the FDA, through which our drug or device products must pass successfully before they may be marketed in the U.S., generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Preclinical laboratory and animal testing; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Submission of an application that must become effective before clinical trials may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended indication; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA approval to market a given product for a given indication after the appropriate application has been filed. For pharmaceutical products, preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of the product, its chemistry, formulation and stability, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product. Where appropriate (for example, for human disease indications for which there exist inadequate animal models), we will attempt to obtain preliminary data concerning safety and efficacy of proposed products using carefully designed human pilot studies. We will require sponsored work to be conducted in compliance with pertinent local and international regulatory requirements, including those providing for Institutional Review Board approval, national governing agency approval and patient informed consent, using protocols consistent with ethical principles stated in the Declaration of Helsinki and other internationally recognized standards. We expect any pilot studies to be conducted outside the United States; but if any are conducted in the United States, they will comply with applicable FDA regulations. Data obtained through pilot studies will allow us to make more informed decisions concerning possible expansion into traditional FDA-regulated clinical trials. 

If the FDA is satisfied with the results and data from preclinical tests, it will authorize human clinical trials. Human clinical trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases which may overlap. Each of the three phases involves testing and study of specific aspects of the effects of the pharmaceutical on human subjects, including testing for safety, dosage tolerance, side effects, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and clinical efficacy. 

Phase 1 clinical trials include the initial introduction of an investigational new drug into humans. These studies are closely monitored and may be conducted in patients, but are usually conducted in healthy volunteer subjects. These studies are designed to determine the metabolic and pharmacologic actions of the drug in humans, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. While the FDA can cause us to end clinical trials at any phase due to safety concerns, phase 1 clinical trials are primarily concerned with safety issues. We also attempt to obtain sufficient information about the drug&#146;s pharmacokinetics and pharmacological effects during phase 1 clinical trial to permit the design of well-controlled, scientifically valid, phase 2 studies. 

Phase 1 studies also evaluate drug metabolism, structure-activity relationships, and the mechanism of action in humans. These studies also determine which investigational drugs are used as research tools to explore biological phenomena or disease processes. The total number of subjects included in phase 1 studies varies with the drug, but is generally in the range of 20 to 80. 

Phase 2 clinical trials include the early controlled clinical studies conducted to obtain some preliminary data on the effectiveness of the drug for a particular indication or indications in patients with the disease or condition. This phase of testing also helps determine the common short-term side effects and risks associated with the drug. Phase 2 studies are typically well-controlled, closely monitored, and conducted in a relatively small number of patients, usually involving several hundred people. 

Phase 3 studies are expanded controlled and uncontrolled trials. They are performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of the drug has been obtained in phase 2, and are intended to gather the additional information about effectiveness and safety that is needed to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug. Phase 3 studies also provide an adequate basis for extrapolating the results to the general population and transmitting that information in the physician labeling. Phase 3 studies usually include several hundred to several thousand people. 

Applicable medical devices can be cleared for commercial distribution through a notification to the FDA under Section 510(k) of the applicable statute. The 510(k) notification must demonstrate to the FDA that the device is as safe and effective and substantially equivalent to a legally marketed or classified device that is currently in interstate commerce. Such devices may not require detailed testing. Certain high-risk devices that sustain human life, are of substantial importance in preventing impairment of human health, or that present a potential unreasonable risk of illness or injury, are subject to a more comprehensive FDA approval process initiated by filing a premarket approval, also known as a &#147;PMA,&#148; application (for devices) or accelerated approval (for drugs). 

&#160;

We have established a core clinical development team and have been working with outside FDA consultants to assist us in developing product-specific development and approval strategies, preparing the required submittals, guiding us through the regulatory process, and providing input to the design and site selection of human clinical studies. Historically, obtaining FDA approval for photodynamic therapies has been a challenge. Wherever possible, we intend to utilize lasers or other activating systems that have been previously approved by the FDA to mitigate the risk that our therapies will not be approved by the FDA. The FDA has considerable experience with lasers by virtue of having reviewed and acted upon many 510(k) and premarket approval filings submitted to it for various photodynamic and non-photodynamic therapy laser applications, including a large number of cosmetic laser treatment systems used by dermatologists. 

The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources, and we may not obtain FDA approval on a timely basis, if at all. Success in preclinical or early-stage clinical trials does not assure success in later-stage clinical trials. The FDA or the research institution sponsoring the trials may suspend clinical trials or may not permit trials to advance from one phase to another at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Once issued, the FDA may withdraw a product approval if we do not comply with pertinent regulatory requirements and standards or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. If the FDA grants approval of a product, the approval may impose limitations, including limits on the indicated uses for which we may market a product. In addition, the FDA may require additional testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety and/or effectiveness of approved products that have been commercialized, and the agency has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Further, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market. 

Marketing our products abroad will require similar regulatory approvals by equivalent national authorities and is subject to similar risks. To expedite development, we may pursue some or all of our initial clinical testing and approval activities outside the United States, and in particular in those nations where our products may have substantial medical and commercial relevance. In some such cases, any resulting products may be brought to the U.S. after substantial offshore experience is gained. Accordingly, we intend to pursue any such development in a manner consistent with U.S. standards so that the resultant development data is maximally applicable for potential FDA approval. 

OTC products are subject to regulation by the FDA and similar regulatory agencies, but the regulations relating to these products are much less stringent than those relating to prescription drugs and medical devices. The types of OTC products developed and previously sold by us only require that we follow cosmetic rules relating to labeling and the claims that we make about our product. The process for obtaining approval of prescription drugs with the FDA does not apply to the OTC products, which we have sold. The FDA can, however, require us to stop selling our product if we fail to comply with the rules applicable to our OTC products. 

Employees 

Effective on February 27, 2016, the effective date of the resignation of H. Craig Dees, Ph.D., as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, we employ three persons, all of whom are full-time employees. We currently engage four full-time consultants, including a lab technician, a contract research associate, an analytical chemist, and an information technology consultant. We also work with various vendors and disclose on our corporate website that we currently have human resources focused on our activities that equate to sixty (60) full-time equivalents, including our seven full-time employees and consultants. 

Our executive officers and directors are: 

Timothy C. Scott, Ph.D. , 57, has served as our President and as a member of our board of directors since we acquired PPI on April 23, 2002. Prior to joining us, Dr. Scott was a senior member of the Photogen management team from 1997 to 2002, including serving as Photogen&#146;s Chief Operating Officer from 1999 to 2002, as a director of Photogen from 1997 to 2000, and as interim CEO for a period in 2000. Before joining Photogen, he served as senior management of Genase LLC, a developer of enzymes for fabric treatment and held senior research and management positions at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Dr. Scott earned a Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering from the University of Wisconsin&#150;Madison in 1985. 

Eric A. Wachter, Ph.D. , 53, currently serves as our Chief Technology Officer since May 14, 2012 and prior to that served as Executive Vice President &#150; Pharmaceuticals and as a member of our board of directors since we acquired PPI on April 23, 2002 until May 14, 2012. Prior to joining us, from 1997 to 2002 he was a senior member of the management team of Photogen, including serving as Secretary and a director of Photogen since 1997 and as Vice President and Secretary and a director of Photogen since 1999. Prior to joining Photogen, Dr. Wachter served as a senior research staff member with Oak Ridge National Laboratory. He earned a Ph.D. in Chemistry from the University of Wisconsin&#150;Madison in 1988. 

&#160;

Peter R. Culpepper , 56, serves as our Interim Chief Executive Officer effective as of February 27, 2016, and also serves as our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer since February 2004. Previously, Mr. Culpepper served as Chief Financial Officer for Felix Culpepper International, Inc. from 2001 to 2004; was a Registered Representative with AXA Advisors, LLC from 2002 to 2003; has served as Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller for Neptec, Inc. from 2000 to 2001; has served in various Senior Director positions with Metromedia Affiliated Companies from 1998 to 2000; has served in various Senior Director and other financial positions with Paging Network, Inc. from 1993 to 1998; and has served in a variety of financial roles in public accounting and industry from 1982 to 1993. He earned a Masters in Business Administration in Finance from the University of Maryland&#150;College Park in 1992. He earned an AAS in Accounting from the Northern Virginia Community College&#150;Annandale, Virginia in 1985. He earned a B.A. in Philosophy from the College of William and Mary&#150;Williamsburg, Virginia in 1982. He is a licensed Certified Public Accountant in both Tennessee and Maryland. 

Equity Issuances and Financing During 2015 

During the three months ended March 31, 2015, the Company issued 75,000 shares of common stock to consultants in exchange for services. Consulting costs charged to operations were $64,000. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, the Company issued 3,000 fully vested warrants to consultants in exchange for services. Consulting costs charged to operations were $1,632. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, the Company completed a private offering of common stock and warrants to accredited investors for gross proceeds of $776,000. The Company received subscriptions, in the aggregate, for 776,000 shares of common stock and five year warrants to purchase 388,000 shares of common stock. Investors received five year fully vested warrants to purchase up to 50% of the number of shares purchased by the investors in the offering. The warrants have an exercise price of $1.25 per share. The purchase price for each share of common stock together with the warrants is $1.00. The Company plans to use the proceeds for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Network 1 Financial Securities, Inc. served as placement agent for the offering. In connection with the offering, the Company paid $100,880 and issued five year fully vested warrants to purchase 77,600 shares of common stock with an exercise price of $1.25 to Network 1 Financial Securities, Inc., which represents 10% of the total number of shares of common stock subscribed for by investors solicited by Network 1 Financial Securities, Inc. 

During the three months ended June 30, 2015, the Company issued 75,000 shares of common stock to consultants in exchange for services. Consulting costs charged to operations were $63,000. During the three months ended June 30, 2015, the Company issued 100,000 fully vested warrants to consultants in exchange for services. Consulting costs charged to operations were $53,582. During the three months ended June 30, 2015, the Company completed a private offering of common stock and warrants to accredited investors for gross proceeds of $1,011,100. The Company received subscriptions, in the aggregate, for 1,011,100 shares of common stock and five year warrants to purchase 505,550 shares of common stock. Investors received five year fully vested warrants to purchase up to 50% of the number of shares purchased by the investors in the offering. The warrants have an exercise price of $1.25 per share. The purchase price for each share of common stock together with the warrants is $1.00. The Company plans to use the proceeds for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Network 1 Financial Securities, Inc. served as placement agent for the offering. In connection with the offering, the Company paid $131,443 and issued five year fully vested warrants to purchase 101,110 shares of common stock with an exercise price of $1.25 to Network 1 Financial Securities, Inc., which represents 10% of the total number of shares of common stock subscribed for by investors solicited by Network 1 Financial Securities, Inc. 

During the three months ended September 30, 2015, the Company issued 78,877 shares of common stock to consultants in exchange for services. Consulting costs charged to operations were $38,439. During the three months ended September 30, 2015, the Company issued 79,500 fully vested warrants to consultants in exchange for services. Consulting costs charged to operations were $24,262. 

During the three months ended December 31, 2015, the Company issued 76,750 shares of common stock to consultants in exchange for services. Consulting costs charged to operations were $37,375. During the three months ended December 31, 2015, the Company issued 1,766,202 fully vested warrants to consultants in exchange for services. Consulting costs charged to operations were $472,882. 

The issuances of the securities were exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 by virtue of Section 4(a)(2) and Rule 506 promulgated under Regulation D thereunder as transactions not involving a public offering. 

On June 24, 2015, the Company completed a public offering of common stock and warrants for gross proceeds of $13,151,250 (the &#147;Offering&#148;). The Offering consisted of 17,500,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 17,500,000 shares of common stock with a public offering price of $0.75 for a fixed combination of one share of common stock and a warrant to purchase one share of common stock. Investors received five year fully vested warrants to purchase up to 100% of the number of shares purchased by the investors in the Offering. The warrants have an exercise price of $0.85 per share. At the closing, the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option with respect to warrants to purchase up to an additional 2,625,000 shares of common stock at $0.01 per warrant. The warrants issued in the Offering began trading on the NYSE MKT on June 22, 2015, under the ticker symbol &#147;PVCTWS.&#148; As of June 30, 2015, 20,125,000 tradable warrants are outstanding. The Company plans to use the proceeds of the Offering for clinical development, working capital and general corporate purposes. Maxim Group LLC acted as sole book-running manager for the Offering. In connection with the Offering, the Company paid $1,052,100 to Maxim Group LLC. 

&#160;

Recent Developments 

Leadership Changes 

On February 29, 2016, the Company announced the resignation of H. Craig Dees, PhD, as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, effective immediately. Dr. Dees resigned for personal and health reasons. On February 29, 2016, the Company also announced that the Board of Directors appointed Peter R. Culpepper, the Company&#146;s current Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, to serve as Interim Chief Executive Officer effective immediately, and is expected to serve as the Interim Chief Executive Officer until the Board of Directors completes its search process for a successor Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors is also searching for an Interim Chief Financial Officer to support Mr. Culpepper with respect to the responsibilities associated with the Chief Financial Officer role until a successor Chief Executive Officer is named. 

On February 27, 2016, the Board of Directors appointed Eric Wachter, the Company&#146;s Chief Technology Officer, to serve as a director on the Company&#146;s Board of Directors, to fill the vacancy on the Board of Directors caused by Dr. Dees&#146;s resignation. Dr. Wachter will stand for election by the Company&#146;s stockholders at the Company&#146;s Annual Meeting of Stockholders in June 2016. Dr. Wachter has not been appointed to serve on any committees of the Board of Directors at this time. The Board of Directors appointed Alfred E. Smith, IV, the lead independent director on the Board of Directors, to replace Dr. Dees as Chairman of the Board of Directors. For more information about these changes in management and the composition of the Company&#146;s Board of Directors, see the Company&#146;s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 29, 2016. 

Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement entered into by Craig Dees and the Company on April 28, 2014 (the &#147;Agreement&#148;), Dr. Dees is owed no severance payments as a result of his resignation as the Company&#146;s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors. Dr. Dees&#146;s employment terminated with his resignation without &#147;Good Reason&#148; as that term is defined in the Agreement. Under section 6 of the Agreement, &#147;Effect of Termination,&#148; a resignation by Dr. Dees without &#147;Good Reason&#148; terminates any payments due to Dr. Dees as of the last day of his employment. As reported in the Company&#146;s press release furnished with the Company&#146;s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on February 29, 2016, in connection with the resignation of Dr. Dees as the Company&#146;s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, which was effective February 27, 2016, the Audit Committee conducted a review of Company procedures, policies and practices, including travel expense advancements and reimbursements. The Audit Committee retained independent counsel and an advisory firm with forensic accounting expertise to assist the Audit Committee in conducting the investigation. On March 15, 2016, the Audit Committee completed this investigation and made the following findings: (1) in 2015, Dr. Dees received $898,430 in travel expense advances but submitted receipts totaling only $297,170, most of which did not appear to be authentic; (2) in 2014, Dr. Dees received $819,000 for travel expense advances, for which no receipts were submitted; and (3) in 2013, Dr. Dees received $752,034 for travel expense advances; no receipts were submitted by Dr. Dees for $698,000 of these expenses and $54,034 of submitted receipts did not appear to be authentic. The Company intends to pursue collection efforts on all of Dr. Dees&#146; unsubstantiated travel expenses, including those which did not appear to be authentic. The Company treats all relevant travel expenses of Dr. Dees as a theft loss and therefore any uncollectible amounts will be treated as income to Dr. Dees and a Form 1099 MISC will be issued by the Company to him in that regard. 

Warrant Exchange Offer 

In the first quarter of 2016 the Company offered to certain of its holders of outstanding warrants the opportunity to receive new warrants expiring June 19, 2020 upon the exercise of their warrants (the &#147;Exchange Offer&#148; or the &#147;Offer&#148;). The Offer was made to certain holders of our warrants to purchase shares of common stock, $0.001 par value per share (&#147;Common Stock&#148;), issued between January 6, 2011 and November 1, 2015 (the &#147;Existing Warrants&#148;) in transactions exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the &#147;Securities Act&#148;). The Offer temporarily modified the terms of such Existing Warrants so that each holder who tenders Existing Warrants during the Offer Period (as defined below) for early exercise were able to do so at a discounted exercise price of $0.50 per share (Existing Warrants currently have exercise prices ranging between $1.00 and $3.00 per share). The Exchange Offer expired at 4:00 P.M. (Eastern time) on Monday, March 28, 2016 (see Note 10 to the financial statements). 7,798,507 Existing Warrants were tendered in the Exchange Offer. 

Available Information 

Our website is located at www.pvct.com. We make available free of charge through this website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;), as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the site and should not be considered part of this document. 

All filings made by us with the SEC may be copied or read at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC as we do. The website is http://www.sec.gov. 

&#160;

