 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. This description contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain of the risks set forth herein. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained herein. 

Overview 

We are focused on becoming the world leader in novel antibiotics against infectious disease and on developing effective treatments for oral mucositis. We also develop, market, and sell proprietary probiotics specifically designed to enhance oral health for humans and pets, under the brand names Evora and ProBiora. 

Our Antibiotic Product Candidate 

Members of our scientific team discovered that a certain bacterial strain produces MU1140, a molecule belonging to the novel class of antibiotics known as lantibiotics. Lantibiotics, such as MU1140, are highly modified peptide antibiotics made by a small group of Gram positive bacterial species. Approximately 60 lantibiotics have been discovered. We believe lantibiotics are generally recognized by the scientific community to be potent antibiotic agents. 

In nonclinical testing, MU1140 has shown activity against all Gram positive bacteria against which it has been tested, including those responsible for a number of healthcare associated infections, or HAIs. A high percentage of hospital-acquired infections are caused by highly resistant bacteria such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) or multidrug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria. We believe the need for novel antibiotics is increasing as a result of the growing resistance of target pathogens to existing FDA approved antibiotics on the market. 

Lantibiotics have been difficult to investigate for their clinical usefulness as a therapeutic agent in the treatment of infectious diseases due to a general inability to produce or synthesize sufficient quantities of pure amounts of these molecules. Traditional fermentation methods can only produce minute amounts of the lantibiotic. 

In June 2012, we entered into the Lantibiotic Exclusive Channel Collaboration agreement (&#147;Lantibiotic ECC&#148;) with Intrexon Corporation (&#147;Intrexon&#148;) for the development and commercialization of the native strain of MU1140 and related homologs using Intrexon&#146;s advanced transgene and cell engineering platforms. Through our work with Intrexon, we have been able to produce a significant increase in the fermentation titer of MU1140 compared to standard fermentation methods and have discovered a new purification process for MU1140. Our work with Intrexon has generated a substantial number of homologs of MU1140, and we are continuing our research and development and collaboration efforts with Intrexon to develop potential derivatives of the MU1140 molecule using genetically modified bacteria. 

In our pre-clinical studies to support a potential Investigational New Drug (&#147;IND&#148;) filing with the FDA, we tested a total of six homologs of MU1140 for certain compound characteristics, including but not limited to: drug activity (based on minimum inhibitory concentration or &#147;MIC&#148;) equal or better than &#147;standard of care&#148; drugs against certain drug-resistant bacteria, safety, toxicity, stability, and manufacturability. The study specifically evaluated homolog efficacy in relation to survival, measurable amounts of c. diff colony forming units, and toxin levels. Three homologs demonstrated promising results with one homolog, which is our current lead compound, achieving a 100% survival rate throughout the entire study in contrast to an approximately 30% survival rate for the vancomycin positive control. 

We have selected a lead candidate, OG253, and have had a pre IND meeting with the FDA in November of 2015. We will continue our research and development activities on OG253 and other potential homologs. Subject to sufficient available capital, we expect to file the IND for a first-in-human clinical study of OG253 in the second half of 2016. 

Our Oral Mucositis Product Candidate 

In June of 2015, we entered into a worldwide Exclusive Channel Collaboration Agreement (&#147;Oral Mucositis ECC&#148;) with Intrexon and Intrexon Actobiotics NV, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intrexon, pursuant to which we obtained certain exclusive rights to AG013 as a potential treatment of oral mucositis, or OM, which we intend to continue to develop. 

In a Phase 1b clinical trial in 25 cancer patients with OM, AG013 was safe and well tolerated. Data published in the journal Cancer showed a 35% reduction of the duration of ulcerative OM in the AG013-treated patients versus the placebo-treated patients. Furthermore, close to 30% of the patients treated with AG013 were full responders while all placebo-treated patients developed ulcerative OM. Additionally, in a Phase 1 pharmacokinetic (PK) study in 10 healthy volunteers, During the first quarter of 2016, we conducted a confirmatory animal study on AG013. We will use the results from that confirmatory study as we move towards a meeting with the Food and Drug Administration with the goal of launching a Phase 2 trial on AG013 for the treatment of oral mucositis in head and neck cancer patients. AG013 bacteria adhered to the buccal mucosa and actively secreted protein locally, resulting in homogeneous exposure to the entire mucosal surface up to 24 hours after administration of a rinse. AG013 has been granted Orphan Drug status in the European Union and we believe it may be eligible for Biologic License Application exclusivity as well as Fast Track designation with the United States Food and Drug Administration. 

&#160;

We are undertaking further studies on oral mucositis at this time before determining to proceed with a Phase 2 clinical trial. 

Our Probiotic Products 

We are marketing a variety of probiotic products that we developed. Our probiotic products contain the active ingredient ProBiora3, a patented blend of oral care probiotics that promote fresher breath, whiter teeth and support overall oral health. We have conducted scientific studies on ProBiora3 in order to market our products under self-affirmed Generally Recognized As Safe status (&#147;GRAS&#148;). We have historically sold our ProBiora3 products through multiple distribution channels. We continue to seek improvement in the performance of our oral care probiotics products, to better serve our customers, and we continue to evaluate new delivery systems, which we believe will enable us to deliver ProBiora3 to new markets and end-users. 

Since initial commercialization of our ProBiora3 products we have attempted to improve market awareness and sales of our oral probiotic product line with limited success to date and we have reduced our marketing expenditures accordingly to focus more on lantibiotics. The allocation of limited financial resources between research and development of lantibiotics for our other product candidates and sale and marketing efforts for our ProBiora3 products, among other factors, resulted in our December 2014 announcement that we would seek to explore strategic alternatives for the probiotic business. These alternatives could include joint ventures, strategic partnerships or alliances, a sale of the probiotic products business or other possible transactions. There can be no assurance that a transaction or agreement, will be consummated with terms favorable to us. 

Other Product Candidates and Technologies. 

In addition to our lantibiotics and oral mucositis product candidates, we also have other candidates and technologies in the oral care and weight loss areas. We do not intend to continue to develop these potential product candidates and technologies without partnering with a third party. We out-licensed the continued research and development of our weight loss product candidate in December 2013 to, LPThera LLC, a newly formed entity. 

Our Products and Product Candidates 

We are currently developing our antibiotic product candidate, MU1140, as well as other homolog antibiotic product candidates, researching AG013 in connection with the treatment of Oral Mucositis, commercializing our ProBiora3 probiotic products and have other product candidates for outlicensing or partnering. We seek to protect our products and product candidates through patents and patent applications. Our products and product candidates are protected by eight issued U.S. patents and five filed U.S. patent applications, including patents exclusively licensed from the University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc., or UFRF, and patent applications we filed in connection with our exclusive license agreement with Texas A&#38;M University System. We are the exclusive worldwide licensee to the patents for our antibiotic product candidate, MU1140, which is owned by the UFRF. We also have worldwide commercialization rights to each of these product candidates. We co-own the intellectual property for certain homologs of our MU1140 and SMaRT Replacement Therapy product candidates with the Texas A&#38;M University System. We have exclusively licensed the rights of the Texas A&#38;M University System to this intellectual property. We have an exclusive, worldwide license from Intrexon to use its technology to develop lantibiotics. We also have an exclusive worldwide license from Intrexon and its wholly owned subsidiary, Actobiotics NV (&#147;Actobiotics&#148;) to use their intellectual property to develop AG013 for the treatment of oral mucositis. 

&#160;

Product/Candidate 

&#160; Description 

&#160; Application 

&#160; Status 

Antibiotics &#160; MU1140 and homologs: Member of lantibiotic class of antibiotics &#160; Healthcare-associated infections &#160; Nonclinical testing AG013 &#160; Treatment of Oral Mucositis &#160; Treatment of oral mucositis in head and neck cancer patients &#160; Completed Phase 1 clinical trial

Potentially Phase 2 ready

ProBiora3 &#160; ProBiora3: Blend of three beneficial oral care probiotic bacteria &#160; Oral health, teeth whitening, breath freshening (for humans, and companion pets) &#160; Commercial (GRAS, Food) LPT3-04 &#160; Naturally occurring chemical agent &#160; Weight loss &#160; Exclusively out-licensed SMaRT Replacement Therapy &#160; Genetically modified strain of S. mutans that does not produce lactic acid &#160; Dental carries-tooth decay &#160; Positioned for partnership opportunities &#160;

MU1140, Homologs of MU1140 and Other Lantibiotics 

In the course of research and development, MU1140 was found to be a potent antibiotic that is naturally produced by the parent of the SMaRT strain. MU1140 shows activity against all Gram positive bacteria against which it has been tested, including those responsible for a variety of healthcare-associated infections, or HAIs. 

On June 5, 2012, we entered into the Lantibiotic ECC with Intrexon. Through this collaboration we intend to develop lantibiotics, a novel class of broad spectrum antibiotics, as active pharmaceutical ingredients toward the goal of commercialization for the treatment of infectious diseases in humans. Intrexon is a leader in the field of synthetic biology and we believe a portion of their technologies covered by the Lantibiotic ECC helped to produce sufficient quantities of native MU1140 as well as a potential pipeline of other MU1140 homologs to initiate nonclinical testing. 

As a result of this ECC, we have selected a lead candidate, OG253, and had a pre IND meeting with the FDA in November of 2015. We will continue our research and development activities on OG253 and we expect to file the IND for a first-in-human clinical study of OG253 in the second half of 2016. 

Market Opportunity 

The most common HAIs are caused by drug-resistant bacteria, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus , or MRSA; vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecalis , or VRE; and Clostridium difficile, or C. diff . According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, HAIs are estimated to occur in approximately 5% of all acute-care hospitalizations. The CDC also estimates that the total direct medical cost to the U.S. healthcare system from HAIs is between $28.4 billion to $45 billion annually. Cubicin, a Gram positive lipopeptide antibiotic which was launched in the US market in November 2003 by the biotechnology company Cubist, had 2012 global sales of $926.4 million. In 2013, Cubist announced the acquisition of two companies Optimer and Trius each of which was for consideration over $800M. In 2015, Cubist was acquired by Merck for a total transaction value of $9.5 billion. 

The need for novel antibiotics is increasing as a result of the growing resistance of the targeted pathogens. The CDC has estimated that up to 77% of certain nosocomial pathogenic bacteria are resistant to drugs of last resort (vancomycin-resistant E. faecium and vancomycin, respectively, in this example). HAIs are not exclusively a problem in the United States as the rest of the world has also seen a dramatic rise in HAIs during the last decade. We believe novel antibiotics have become increasingly scarce as major pharmaceutical companies focus more research and development resources on lifestyle drugs and fewer resources on specialty pharmaceuticals such as antibiotics. Between 1983 and 1987, 16 new antibiotics were approved by the FDA. Twenty years later, over an equivalent time period from 2003 to 2007, only five new antibiotics were approved by the FDA, of which only two possessed a novel mechanism of action. Between 2008 and 2012, there were only two new antibiotics approved by FDA. 

Lantibiotics such as MU1140 are highly modified peptide antibiotics made by a small group of Gram positive bacterial species. Approximately 60 lantibiotics have been discovered since the first lantibiotic, nisin, was discovered. Lantibiotics are known to be potent antibiotic agents; however, attempts to investigate their clinical usefulness have generally met with failure due to the inability to produce sufficient pure amounts of any of these molecules to be able to test them as a therapeutic agent for the treatment of infectious diseases. Standard fermentation methods, such as those used to make a variety of other antibiotics, have historically resulted in the production of only minute amounts of the lantibiotic. 

Our Solution 

To develop homologs of MU1140 paired with high producing strains to the point of commercialization or partnership, and to develop additional lantibiotics in connection with our work on MU1140. MU1140 has demonstrated activity against a wide variety of disease-causing Gram positive bacteria, including MRSA, VRE, C. difficile . , Mycobacterium tuberculosis or, and Bacillus anthracis . 

Our Strategy 

In collaboration with Intrexon, we are developing and testing recombinantly derived homologs of the native MU1140 molecule with better overall therapeutic profiles. The data generated in collaboration with Intrexon over the past few years enabled us to engineer hundreds of homologs of MU1140, and select those homolog candidates with a better profile, including homologs of higher activity 

&#160;

and stability, lower toxicity and with a scalable manufacturability. The best homolog candidates were further developed internally and through the use of several Contract Research Organizations (&#147;CROs&#148;). We believe that this strategy represented the best and most efficient path to produce sufficient quantities of MU1140 homologs, to support continued research, selection of a lead candidate, nonclinical studies, clinical studies and ultimately commercialization. We currently anticipate the eventual selection of a single lead drug candidate in 2015. 

Regulatory Status 

We have performed nonclinical testing on MU1140 which has demonstrated the molecule&#146;s novel mechanism of action. We began additional nonclinical activities on MU1140 under the ECC with Intrexon in the second half of 2013 and activities have expanded with new identified homologs as available. These nonclinical activities are expected to include toxicity results, pharmacokinetic studies, and efficacy studies in animals for selected candidates. This work is being done primarily through the use of outside contractors. Pursuit of clinical trials toward the goal of ultimately obtaining regulatory approval will depend upon further successful advancements in our research collaboration efforts with Intrexon and our efforts to have additional product manufactured. Developments from these efforts will dictate our regulatory path. We selected a lead candidate, OG253, and we will continue our research and development activities on OG253 as we move towards the filing of an IND in the second half of 2016. 

Manufacturing 

Through our work with Intrexon, we have been able to produce a significant increase in the fermentation titer of the target compound MU1140 and the discovery of a new purification process for MU1140. We continue to improve on the manufacturing through collaborations with fermentation and purification experts and third party CROs, and through the hire of key personnel who will be able to further optimize and scale up the production/purification scheme internally. Our determination to examine many new homologs of MU1140 resulted in the need to reproduce the fermentation and purification steps on at least 10-15 identified homolog candidates. Each homolog requires different optimizations for both the fermentation and purification steps and in many cases required a new approach. As such our work on the development of new lantibiotic homologs using genetically modified bacteria continues. We believe these developments represent progress toward our goal of commercial production of sufficient quantities of a MU1140 homolog and deliver a step in validating the lantibiotics platform targeting infectious diseases. 

We are working with a third party manufacturer to produce additional quantities of designated homologs, based upon the developments achieved from our work with Intrexon and outside contractors. The production of additional quantities of designated homologs that are needed for the consummation and pursuit of our nonclinical testing activities supporting the pre-IND meeting is currently underway. 

Our Oral Mucositis (OM) &#150; Product Candidate 

On June 9, 2015, we entered into our Oral Mucositis ECC with Intrexon and Actobiotics, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intrexon, through which we intend to research, develop and commercialize products, including the continued development and commercialization of AG013, for use in the treatment of oral mucositis in humans and/or the administration to humans of a trefoil factor via genetically modified bacteria (including L. lactis ) for the treatment of diseases and conditions of the oral cavity, throat, and esophagus, but, in any case, excluding the delivery of anti-cancer effectors for the purpose of treatment or prophylaxis of cancer (collectively, the &#147;Program&#148;). Contemporaneously with the ECC, we also entered into a Stock Issuance Agreement (the &#147;SIA&#148;) with Intrexon which provided for the payment of a technology access fee and the potential future issuance by us of our common stock to Intrexon upon the achievement of designated development milestones. We issued a Convertible Note in the amount of $5,000,000 as payment of the technology access fee associated with the Oral Mucositis ECC which was payable, at our option, in cash or shares of our common stock. 

Market Opportunity 

We estimate, based upon our review of historic studies and reports, and an interpolation of data on the incidence of oral mucositis, that oral mucositis is a subpopulation of approximately 90,000 patients in the U.S., with a comparable number in Europe. Oral mucositis almost always occurs in patients with head and neck cancer treated with radiation therapy (greater than 80% incidence of severe mucositis) and is common in patients undergoing high dose chemotherapy and hematopoietic cell transplantation, where the incidence and severity of oral mucositis depends greatly on the nature of the conditioning regimen used for myeloablation. 

According to Global Data, it is estimated the oral mucositis therapeutics market was valued at $813.2 million in 2010. Further, the oral mucositis therapeutics market is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5.2% from $813.2 million in 2010 to $1,156.0 million in 2017. We believe the growth would be primarily due to the increase in the number of cancer patients, increased rate of chemotherapy and increase in awareness among patients about oral mucositis. 

&#160;

Our Solution 

To continue research and development through our collaboration with Intrexon and Actobiotics to develop AG013 as an effective treatment for oral mucositis. 

Our Strategy 

In collaboration with Intrexon, and subject to our ability to raise additional capital to pursue further development of AG013, we expect to further the research and development of AG013 toward the goal of moving AG013 forward in its clinical development and to assess the data generated and research and development conducted by Actobiotics on our behalf to identify other potential candidates product for the treatment of oral mucositis that could be more effective than AG013. 

Regulatory Status 

In a Phase 1b clinical trial in 25 cancer patients with OM, AG013 was safe and well tolerated. Data published in the journal Cancer showed a 35% reduction of the duration of ulcerative OM in the AG013-treated patients versus the placebo-treated patients. Furthermore, close to 30% of the patients treated with AG013 were full responders while all placebo-treated patients developed ulcerative OM. Additionally, in a Phase 1 pharmacokinetic (PK) study in 10 healthy volunteers, AG013 bacteria adhered to the buccal mucosa and actively secreted protein locally, resulting in homogeneous exposure to the entire mucosal surface up to 24 hours after administration of a rinse. AG013 has been granted Orphan Drug status in the European Union and we believe it may be eligible for Biologic License Application exclusivity as well as Fast Track designation with the United States Food and Drug Administration. 

Manufacturing 

We expect to utilize contract manufacturing firms to produce our investigational product candidate AG013 in accordance with &#147;current good manufacturing practices&#148; (cGMP) guidelines outlined by the FDA. 

ProBiora3 Oral Care Probiotics 

ProBiora3 is a proprietary blend of three naturally occurring strains of beneficial bacteria, including Streptococcus oralis KJ3 , Streptococcus uberis KJ2, and Streptococcus rattus JH145, which promotes fresher breath, whiter teeth, and supports overall oral health. We believe that ProBiora3 is the most comprehensive oral care probiotics technology currently available in the oral healthcare market. The scientific basis for the oral health benefits provided by these three strains of bacteria has been documented in numerous peer-reviewed publications over the last 30 years. We promote ProBiora3 as the active ingredient in our consumer branded products, including EvoraPlus, EvoraKids and EvoraPet, and the professional branded product, EvoraPro. EvoraPlus and EvoraKids are flavored probiotic tablets intended for daily use by adults and children, respectively, after brushing their teeth. EvoraPet is intended for companion pets such as cats and dogs, and comes in a tasteless and odorless powder form. The powder is intended to be sprinkled on a pet&#146;s food once per day. EvoraPro is a professional strength product designed for the dental office channel. In addition to our house-branded products, we also market ProBiora3 as an active ingredient for private label products, as well as in bulk for licensing applications. 

Market Opportunity 

Probiotics are live microorganisms that confer a health benefit to their host when administered in sufficient amounts. The beneficial bacteria in a probiotic formulation help to maintain a healthy balance of bacteria in the body. Examples of common probiotic applications are yogurt containing live cultures, acidophilus capsules to improve digestion, and products for improved immune system and vaginal and urinary tract health. According to a report published by MarketsandMarkets (www.marketsandmarkets.com), the overall probiotic market was valued at $24.23 billion in 2011 and is expected to grow at a CAGR of 6.8% from 2012 to 2017. In 2011, Asia-Pacific led the global market with share of 40.0% followed by Europe and North America in terms of revenue. Probiotics products are relatively more common in Asia and Europe, accounting for 42% and 30% of the global market. The probiotics market in the United States, however, is emerging, and products that address gastrointestinal problems and other uses are rapidly becoming available, especially as dietary supplements and cultured foods and beverages. According to Transparency Market research (http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/probiotics-market.html), probiotic foods &#38; beverages are the dominant segments in the global market and are expected to grow at a CAGR of 6.8% from 2013 to 2018. Probiotic demand for food &#38; beverage segment is estimated to reach USD 37.9 billion in 2018. Following food and beverages, the market for dietary supplements and animal feed are also witnessing significant growth. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Oral Care For Humans: According to Packaged Facts, oral care products in the U.S. retailed at $9.1 billion in 2008 and $10.9 billion is possible by 2014. In addition, over 62.3 million Americans visited the dentist in 2009. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Companion Pets: In 2013 to 2014, approximately 68% of U.S. households owned a pet, with an estimated 45.3 million and 56.7 million households owning cats and dogs, respectively, according to the American Pet Products Association or APPA. The APPA also claims that total 2011 U.S. pet industry expenditures were $51 billion, representing an increase of over 5% from 2010. Within this market, approximately $11.8 billion was spent on Supplies/OTC Medicine. Our Probiotic Products 

ProBiora3 is a blend of three naturally occurring strains of bacteria for use in the promotion of oral health, including Streptococcus oralis strain KJ3, or S. oralis ; Streptococcus uberis strain KJ2, or S. uberis ; and Streptococcus rattus strain JH145, or S. rattus . In a healthy human oral cavity, S. oralis and S. uberis are commonly found in significant amounts, and conversely, the levels of bacteria associated with a disruption of gum health are usually quite low. The opposite situation prevails in periodontal disease sites, where the beneficial bacteria, S. oralis and S. uberis , are usually undetectable. Our scientists have demonstrated that S. oralis and S. uberis produce hydrogen peroxide, which interferes with the growth of certain potentially harmful anaerobic bacteria, and also gently and naturally whitens teeth. The third bacterial strain in our ProBiora3 blend, S. rattus , is able to establish and maintain a healthy balance of bacteria on the tooth surfaces by competing with certain other potentially harmful bacteria that are known to challenge tooth health. 

ProBiora3 has been tested for safety and efficacy in the laboratory and in animal and human trials. In our pilot human study, a twice-daily administration of ProBiora3 was well tolerated by subjects and no safety issues were observed. ProBiora3 produced substantial decreases in the numbers of key potentially harmful bacteria, associated with disruptions from tooth and periodontal health, in young healthy adults. 

We market products containing ProBiora3 under our own house brand names, and have branded ProBiora3 as an active ingredient for licensing and private labeling. Our house brand products contain different ratios, or blends, of the three natural strains contained in ProBiora3, which vary depending on the intended use of the product. Our ProBiora3 products are designed for repetitive use in order to achieve the intended benefits, which we believe provides us with the potential for recurring revenues as consumers who continue to seek the benefits of our products will continue to make repeat purchases. Our ProBiora3 products include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; EvoraPlus: a product with equal weight of all three strains that is optimally designed for the general consumer market. EvoraPlus is a mint-flavored probiotic tablet packaged in a 30-unit bottle, representing a one-month supply. The intended use for EvoraPlus is for consumers to take one tablet once per day, preferably after brushing their teeth in the evening. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; EvoraKids: a product that has higher levels of S. rattus, which addresses dental health, but reduced levels of S. oralis and S. uberis since challenges to gum health is not a typical pediatric concern. EvoraKids is a fruit-flavored chewable probiotic tablet packaged in a 30-unit bottle, representing a one-month supply. The intended use for EvoraKids is for consumers to take one tablet once per day, preferably after brushing their teeth in the evening. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; EvoraPet: a product that has higher levels of S. oralis and S. uberis , which addresses tooth staining and breath problems common to dogs and cats, but has reduced levels of S. rattus since a challenge to tooth health is not a typical concern in companion pets. EvoraPet comes in powder form, which is odorless and tasteless. The powder is intended to be sprinkled on a pet&#146;s food once per day. It is sold in a jar containing a measuring scoop that provides the recommended dosage per application. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; EvoraPro: a professional strength version of EvoraPlus that is designed for the dental office channel. EvoraPro is a mint-flavored probiotic tablet packaged in a 90-tablet bottle, representing a three-month supply. The intended use for EvoraPro is for patients, after a professional visit, for home use, with instructions to take one tablet once per day, preferably after brushing their teeth in the evening. EvoraPro can only be purchased from a professional dental office. EvoraPro was launched in early August 2010 and is currently supplied to dental professionals through major dental dealers. In 2012, we launched EvoraPro as a 90-day bottle (previously 30-day) to more closely align with the scheduling of dental patients recurring office visits and consistent with our focus on this channel. Package and Delivery Transition 

We strive to be attentive to the needs of the market and ultimate consumers regarding the use of our ProBiora3 products and as such revise and improve on our product delivery mechanisms. For example, in 2012, we instituted a change in EvoraPro to a 90-day package to correlate more closely to consumer&#146;s visit to dental offices. 

Our Regulatory Strategy &#150; United States 

In the United States, we market ProBiora3 as a food ingredient under self-affirmed Generally Recognized as Safe, or GRAS, status. GRAS is available for food ingredients that are generally recognized as being safe for human use and do not claim to treat, prevent, or cure a disease. Furthermore, food products that make only cosmetic or structure-function claims are typically able to enter the market through what is known as self-affirmed GRAS status, which designates that we have performed all necessary research, including the formation of an expert panel to review safety concerns, and are prepared to use these findings to defend ProBiora3&#146;s self-affirmed 

&#160;

GRAS status. In 2008, we convened a panel, the members of whom we believed to be qualified as experts by their scientific training and professional experience, to analyze and evaluate the safety data for ProBiora3. After review, the panel concluded that the safety data of ProBiora3 was sufficient to support our claim to self-affirmed GRAS status for human consumption. 

Our marketing for ProBiora3 includes the cosmetic claims of teeth whitening and breath freshening, along with the general structure-function claim that ProBiora3 supports oral health. Regulations vary in markets outside the United States and it may be possible to assert other benefits including health and disease prevention claims associated with probiotics use, especially after independent clinical studies have been completed and appropriate regulatory filings are approved. At present, we are aware of several independent academic studies that have been initiated on a variety of potential health and cosmetic benefits associated with ProBiora3 probiotics use by humans. 

Our Regulatory Strategy &#150; International 

Regulations vary by country and, as such, we rely on the expertise of local partners to which we sell to assist us in navigating through any applicable regulatory requirements. We are generally aware of the varying regulatory requirements in various geographies, and seek to address these requirements on a case-by-case basis. 

Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

ProBiora3 products are available through several channels: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Direct-to-Consumer: Our direct-to-consumer channel is primarily directed towards web-based sales, comprised of internet sales through our own websites. We currently operate one corporate website through which we market our branded products. An &#147;Oragenics Store&#148; provides the consumer with access to purchase our products. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Professional Offices: The professional offices channel encompasses general dentists, specialists and dental hygienists. EvoraPro is an extra-strength, probiotic designed to be taken after dental cleaning or treatment. We currently have distribution agreements with leading distributors of products to the dental professional market. In addition, we have a partnership with a private label customer in the dental space. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Domestic: The domestic channel encompasses arrangements whereby we offer either our products for resale under a third-party&#146;s brand name or the rights to distribute our branded products. We typically establish private labeling arrangements in order to leverage an existing company&#146;s brand equity and distribution channels. We have private label partnerships allowing for distribution of ProBiora3 based products throughout the United States. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; International: Since the launch of our first product, EvoraPlus, we have entered into exclusive distribution agreements for our products internationally in various geographic locations. We believe the international market represents a significant potential opportunity, and we continually search for appropriate partners who have the marketing ability and resources to successfully introduce our ProBiora3 products to consumers internationally. Our distribution agreements range in terms between one and three years. They typically provide for exclusivity tied to a geographic territory or our market. Such agreements also typically provide for termination by the parties upon thirty (30) days written notice. Following an initial required stocking order, subsequent distributor orders are placed according to the quantity and name of each product ordered. The distributor is generally required to make guaranteed minimum purchases during a specified time period to maintain exclusivity. In the event such guaranteed minimums are not met, we may terminate the distribution agreement. Distributors are required to pay an advance equal to part of the price of the product. We require the distributor to maintain liability insurance. All rights terminate upon expiration or termination of the agreement. For international distribution agreements, payment is to be made to us in U.S. currency and we pay no taxes or other fees assessed by any governmental entity in connection with the international sale of ProBiora3 products. 

ProBiora3 is now formulated as a cosmetic mouthwash tablet for use in the European Union. All Oragenics&#146; independent distributors can now distribute the ProBiora3 tablets in the EU under a Cosmetic designation. 

Manufacturing 

We have multiple suppliers who either manufacture, blend, tablet, and/or package our products. We currently have one supplier that is able to produce the three strains of bacteria needed to produce ProBiora3. We are in the process of negotiating a contract with this supplier for the production of all three strains. This supplier uses proprietary methodologies to produce these three strains of bacteria. We have one supplier who is able to blend and tablet EvoraPlus, EvoraKids, and EvoraPro. We have one additional supplier that is able to tablet EvoraPlus, EvoraKids, and EvoraPro. We have several suppliers that are currently able to package our products. We have one supplier that is able to blend and package EvoraPet. 

&#160;

With each supplier, we place orders for components or finished product to be produced for a fixed fee. We pay either a portion of the fixed fee upon submission of our orders with the balance of the fixed fee paid upon completion of the manufacturing process or the entire fixed fee is paid at the time the manufacturing, blending, tableting, or packaging is completed. Packaged probiotics products are shipped to us or to a destination specified by us, or to a private label distributor. We currently maintain an inventory of our products for internet sales and other sales to distributors. We believe our arrangements with our contract suppliers are satisfactory to meet our current and expected future needs. 

Other Product Candidates and Technologies 

LPT3-04 Weight Loss Product 

In the course of our research efforts, our scientific team also discovered that consumption of a significant amount of LPT3-04, a naturally occurring compound which is normally consumed in the human diet in small amounts, resulted in dose-dependent weight loss in experimental animal models. In December 2013 we entered into an exclusive licensing arrangement of our LPT3-04 weight-loss product candidate for further development to LPThera LLC (&#147;LPThera&#148;). LPThera LLC was a newly formed entity that needs to raise capital to further pursue the opportunity presented by our LPT3-04 product candidate. LPThera LLC was formed by a former consultant to the Company who became an employee effective in April 2014 and subsequently ceased his employment in March 2016. The exclusive license agreement we granted to LPThera, provides LPThera the exclusive worldwide royalty bearing license to develop, make or have made, use, sell, offer for sale, market and promote the LPT3-04 for use under our technology. LPThera may sublicense the rights described without our written consent, but shall provide notice to us of any sublicense granted. 

Under the LPT3-04 license agreement, as amended in March 2014, LPThera has agreed to achieve the following development milestones within the following time frames: 

&#160;

Development Milestones

&#160; Completion date 1.

&#160; Fundraising to support nonclinical and animal studies

&#160; Q2 2015 2.

&#160; Formulation development

&#160; Q3 2015 3.

&#160; Complete required nonclinical, exploratory animal and GLP animal studies

&#160; Q3 2018 4.

&#160; Complete required Investigational New Drug (&#147;IND&#148;) human clinical studies

&#160; Q3 2020 5.

&#160; First Regulatory Approval (as defined in the LPT3-04 license agreement)

&#160; Q3 2021 6.

&#160; First Commercial Sale (as defined in the LPT3-04 license agreement)

&#160; Q3 2021 The milestones set forth above for 2015 for fundraising and formulation development were satisfactorily achieved on a timely basis in 2015. Our licensee is pursuing a strategy of weight loss in companion pets in order to be in position to commercialize a product candidate on a more accelerated basis. 

LPThera is responsible for commercializing the products containing LPT3-04 using commercially reasonable efforts. If at any time after the second anniversary of the effective date of the LPT3-04 license agreement, we believe in our reasonable opinion that LPThera has not satisfied the development milestones or commercialization responsibility, designated representatives of each party will meet to discuss areas of concern and any additional actions that should be taken to remedy the cause for our concern and we may require LPThera to take certain actions for it to comply with its diligence obligations under the LPT3-04 license agreement. 

LPThera has agreed to pay us 5% of the aggregate net sales derived from the sale of products containing LPT3-04, where the manufacture, use, promotion or sale of such products is protected by a valid claim of one of our patents covered by the LPT3-04 license agreement in such country. If we do not obtain a US patent with a valid claim, LPThera has agreed to pay us 2.5% of aggregate net sales derived from the sale of products containing LPT3-04 in the US. LPThera has likewise agreed to pay us 20% of license income obtained from a sublicensee in the event of a sublicensing arrangement. 

Under the LPT3-04 license agreement, LPThera has agreed to make certain payments to us upon its achievement of designated sales levels. The sales levels and amounts payable are as follows: 

&#160;

Calendar Year Net Sales &#160; Sales Milestone $1,000,000

&#160; $50,000 $10,000,000

&#160; $500,000 $100,000,000

&#160; $5,000,000 &#160;

LPThera has agreed to indemnify and hold us harmless from any damages caused as a result of the development, manufacture, distribution, marketing, promotion or sale of the products containing LPT3-04 or its breach of a representation, warranty or obligation under the LPT3-04 license agreement. 

We have agreed to indemnify and hold LPThera harmless from any damages caused as a result of the development, manufacture, distribution, marketing, promotion or sale of the products containing LPT3-04 prior to the effective date of the LPT3-04 license agreement or our breach of a representation, warranty or obligation under the LPT3-04 license agreement. 

The term of the LPT3-04 license agreement expires upon the expiration of our patents covered by the LPT3-04 license agreement that contain one or more valid claims. After expiration of the royalty term for products containing LPT3-04 in each country, LPThera shall have a royalty-free, non-exclusive license to develop, make, have made, use, import, market, promote, distribute, sell, and offer for sale and otherwise exploit such products containing LPT3-04 in such country. 

LPThera may voluntarily terminate the LPT3-04 license agreement upon 60 days written notice to us. Either party may terminate the LPT3-04 license agreement if one party materially breaches the LPT3-04 license agreement and fails to cure such breach within 60 days or in the case of payment defaults, 30 days. 

After the effective date of termination of the LPT3-04 license agreement (unless terminated by LPThera as a result of our material breach), (i) all licenses granted by us to LPThera shall terminate, (ii) LPThera will assign and transfer to us all regulatory filings related to products containing LPT3-04, (iii) LPThera will license to us on a royalty-free basis all rights to all trademarks for the products containing LPT3-04 for use with such products, (iv) LPThera shall assign to us all inventions controlled by LPThera that relate to solely the development, manufacture, use or sale of the products containing LPT3-04, but if such inventions are not solely related to, but are necessary for, the development, manufacture, use or sale of the products containing LPT3-04, then LPThera shall grant to us the exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license (with right to sublicense) to develop, manufacture, sell and use solely the products containing LPT3-04. In the event that the LPT3-04 license agreement is terminated following completion of development milestones 1, 2 and 3 described above, we have agreed to pay LPThera (i) during the royalty term a royalty on our net sales of the products containing LPT3-04 at a rate of 3% and (ii) 10% of any license income obtained from a sublicensee. 

Replacement Therapy 

Our SMaRT Replacement Therapy is based on the creation of a genetically modified strain of bacteria that colonizes in the oral cavity and replaces native bacteria that cause tooth decay. Our SMaRT Replacement Therapy product candidate is designed to be a painless, one-time, five-minute topical treatment applied to the teeth that has the potential to offer lifelong protection against dental caries, or tooth decay. While we commenced a Phase 1b clinical trial for SMaRT Replacement Therapy during the first quarter of 2011, the very restrictive study enrollment criteria required by the FDA made the enrollment of candidates meeting the restrictive criteria difficult. This enrollment difficulty was also present in our Phase 1a clinical trial. Due to the enrollment difficulties we encountered with our initial Phase 1a clinical trial and with our phase 1b clinical trial, we determined to discontinue pursuit of our Phase 1b clinical trial. Our focus for the SMaRT Replacement Therapy technology is on possible partnering opportunities that may exist or for consideration in our LBP program. 

Our Replacement Therapy technology was exclusively licensed from the University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc. (&#147;UFRF&#148;). The UFRF license terminated in June 2015 when the patent covered by the license expired. The Company, however, had a new patent issue, patent number 9,260,488, through its research and development undertaken with Texas A&#38;M. (See discussion of Texas A&#38;M license below). The Company believes the issuance of the patent could support or enable future potential partnership opportunities for this technology. 

Our In-Licensed Technology Agreements 

The University of Florida Research Foundation Licenses 

We hold exclusive licenses from the University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc. (&#147;UFRF&#148;) for our MU1140 product candidates. 

MU1140 &#150; We have exclusively licensed the intellectual property for our MU1140 lantibiotic technology from the UFRF. The original license agreement was dated June 22, 2000 and was subsequently amended on September 15, 2000, July 10, 2002, September 25, 2002, March 17, 2003 and April 19, 2013. The amended license agreement provides us with an exclusive worldwide license to make, use and sell products and processes covered by Patent No. 5,932,469 entitled &#147;Antimicrobial Polypeptide, Nucleic Acid and Methods of Use&#148; and includes U.S. patent numbers 6,964,760; 7,067,125; 6,391,285; 6,475,771 and the following foreign patents based on the technology in the &#145;469 patent: Australian patent number 7488871, Canadian patent number 2295986, European patent number 1019084 validated in France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Sweden and United Kingdom. Our license is for the period of the patents, which expire between 2017 and 2019 subject to the performance of terms and conditions contained therein. 

Additional Terms of UFRF License Agreements - In the amended license agreement MU1140, we are obligated to pay 5% of the selling price of any products developed from the licensed technologies that we may sell as royalty to the UFRF. In addition, if we 

&#160;

sublicense any rights granted by the amended license agreements, we are obligated to pay the UFRF 22% of all revenues received from the sublicenses, excluding monies received that are dedicated solely for development costs. We are also obligated to make the following payments to UFRF as follows: a one-time commercialization fee, post-commercialization minimum royalty payments, and a one-time cumulative royalty payment. The one-time commercialization fee would be due on the first anniversary of first commercial sale and is calculated at $5,000 per month between (1) April 1, 2013 (for the MU1140 license agreement) and (2) the month of the first anniversary of a commercial sale. The post-commercialization minimum royalty payments of $50,000 annually would be due following payment of a commercialization fee. The one-time additional royalty payment would be due when total cumulative royalties paid to UFRF exceed $2.0 million, upon which we would be obligated to make a one-time additional payment to UFRF of 10% of the total royalties due to UFRF in the calendar year in which cumulative royalties exceeded $2.0 million. 

We are required to make minimum annual maintenance payments to the UFRF for the term of the amended license agreement in the amount of $10,000 for the license agreement. The annual payments are required to be paid in advance on a quarterly basis which amounts to $2,500 per quarter for the license. We must also pay all patent costs and expenses incurred by the UFRF for the preparation, filing, prosecution, issuance and maintenance of the patent. We have agreed to indemnify and hold UFRF and other affiliated parties harmless from any damages caused as a result of the production, manufacture, sale, use, lease, consumption or advertisement of the licensed product. 

The terms of the UFRF amended license agreement expire upon the earlier of (i) the date that no patents covered by the license agreement remain enforceable or (ii) the payment of earned royalties under the amended license agreement, once begun, ceases for more than three calendar quarters. We may voluntarily terminate the amended license agreement upon 90 days written notice to UFRF. UFRF may terminate the amended license agreement if we breach our obligations to timely pay any amounts due under the amended license agreement, to submit development reports as required under the license agreement or commit any other breach of any other covenants contained in the license agreement and we fail to remedy such breach within 90 days after written notice of such breach by UFRF. 

Texas A&#38;M License Agreement 

In December 2011, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Texas A&#38;M University System (College Station, TX) (&#147;Texas A&#38;M&#148;) for access to new homologs of the lantibiotic Mutacin 1140 (MU1140) and other lantibiotics with improved pharmacological properties and structural features. These novel antibiotics may be useful to treat or prevent colonization and/or infections by one or more types of bacteria. The structural changes available to us from this license agreement may improve the bioactivity of MU1140. Under the terms of the Texas A&#38;M license agreement, we filed two patent applications with the US Patent Office to secure the intellectual property related to these new lantibiotic homologs on February 27, 2012, entitled &#147;Variants of the Lantibiotic MU1140 and Other Lantibiotics with Improved Pharmacological Properties and Structural Features&#148; and &#147;Replacement Therapy for Dental Carries.&#148; The patent filed for Replacement Therapy for Dental Carries was issued on February 16, 2016, No. 9,260,488 and will expire on February 16, 2036. We have had a longstanding relationship with Dr. James Leif Smith, one of the co-authors of the patent application. Dr. Smith is an Associate Professor in the Department of Biology at Texas A&#38;M University and the Founder and Chair of Biotech Analyst Group, LLC, since 2006. 

Under the terms of the license agreement, we made an initial payment of five thousand dollars ($5,000) to Texas A&#38;M. We must also pay to Texas A&#38;M a royalty of five percent (5%) of net sales of products that include the licensed technology, subject to royalty stacking provisions with a two percent (2%) minimum royalty. Additionally, in order to maintain the exclusive license, commencing in 2014 and each year thereafter prior to the calendar year of the first sale of products using the licensed technology), we must pay Texas A&#38;M $15,000 as minimum consideration for the continuation of the license agreement. Once we commence the sale of products that include the technology we license from Texas A&#38;M we must pay a minimum annual amount of $100,000 to Texas A&#38;M and every year thereafter through the expiration of the Agreement. However, once sales begin, any royalty payments we make on net sales will be credited against the $100,000 required maintenance payment. 

We must also pay all patent costs and expenses for the preparation, filing, prosecution, issuance and maintenance of the patent rights. We have agreed to indemnify and hold the Texas A&#38;M harmless from any damages caused as a result of alleged infringement of a third party&#146;s intellectual property rights or as a result of the production, manufacture, sale, use, lease, consumption or advertisement of the product. Sales by sublicensees are subject to the royalty rate above, and we shall be responsible for certain payments to Texas A&#38;M for any other consideration received that is not in the form of a royalty. 

Pursuant to the Texas A&#38;M license agreement, we are obligated to meet the following milestones and make milestone payments: (i) enrollment of first patient in a Phase 1 clinical trial using the licensed technology, to occur on or before June 1, 2015, with a milestone achievement payment of $50,000 , (ii) completion of Phase 2 clinical trial of a product using the licensed technology to occur on or before June 1, 2019, with a milestone achievement payment of $100,000, (iii) completion of Phase 3 clinical trial of a product using the licensed technology to occur on or before June 1, 2022, with a milestone achievement payment of $150,000, and (iv) first sale of a product using the licensed technology to occur on or before June 1, 2025 with a milestone achievement payment of $400,000. If we fail to accomplish the milestones or fail to achieve net sales of products including the licensed technology for two consecutive calendar years once sales begin, Texas A&#38;M, at its sole option may waive the requirement, negotiate the missed milestones or terminate the license agreement. In addition, products using the licensed technology must be substantially manufactured in the United States. We expect to seek an amendment to extend the enrollment milestones. 

&#160;

On July 11, 2012 the Texas A&#38;M license agreement was amended to add references to replacement therapy in the defined terms &#147;Licensed Technology&#148; and &#147;Patent Rights&#148;. All other terms of the Texas A&#38;M license agreement remain unchanged. 

On May 18, 2015, the Texas A&#38;M license agreement was amended to extend the enrollment of first patient in a Phase 1 clinical trial using the licensed technology, from on or before June 1, 2015, to on or before June 1, 2016. All other terms of the Texas A&#38;M license agreement as amended remained unchanged. The term of the Texas A&#38;M license agreement expires upon (i) the expiration of the applicable patent rights covered by the license agreement, (ii) the failure of any patent filed pursuant to the license agreement to issue, or (iii) the final and unappealable determination by a court that the patent rights are invalid. We may voluntarily terminate the license agreement upon 90 days written notice to Texas A&#38;M. Texas A&#38;M can terminate the license agreement if we materially breach the license agreement and do not cure such breach within 60 days of receiving notice of such breach from Texas A&#38;M. 

Our Worldwide Exclusive Channel Collaboration (&#147;ECC&#148;) Agreements with Intrexon 

Our Lantibiotic ECC 

On June 5, 2012, we entered into the Lantibiotic ECC with Intrexon that governs a &#147;channel collaboration&#148; arrangement in which we will use Intrexon&#146;s advanced transgene and cell engineering platforms for the development and production of lantibiotics, a class of peptide antibiotics that are naturally produced in Gram-positive bacteria and contain the characteristic polycyclic thioether amino acids lanthionine and methyllanthonine (collectively, the &#147;Lantibiotics Program&#148;). The Lantibiotic ECC establishes committees comprised of our representatives and Intrexon representatives that will govern activities related to the Lantibiotics Program in the areas of project establishment, chemistry, manufacturing and controls matters, clinical and regulatory matters, commercialization efforts and intellectual property matters. Currently, the Joint Steering Committee has established projects for the Lantibiotics Program and established the priorities, as well as approved the budgets for such projects. 

The Lantibiotic ECC grants us an exclusive worldwide license to use patents and other intellectual property of Intrexon in connection with the research, development, use, importing, exporting, manufacture, sale, and offer for sale of drug products involving the direct administration to humans or companion animals of a lantibiotic for the prevention or treatment of infectious disease (&#147;Oragenics Products&#148;). Such license is exclusive with respect to any clinical development, selling, offering for sale or other commercialization of Oragenics Products, and otherwise is non-exclusive. Subject to limited exceptions, we may not sublicense the rights described without Intrexon&#146;s written consent. 

Under the Lantibiotic ECC, and subject to certain exceptions, we are responsible for, among other things, funding the further anticipated development of lantibiotics toward the goal of commercialization, conducting nonclinical and clinical development of candidate lantibiotics, as well as for other aspects of manufacturing and the commercialization of the product(s). Among other things, Intrexon is responsible for technology discovery efforts, cell-engineering development, certain aspects of the manufacturing process, and costs of filing, prosecution and maintenance of Intrexon&#146;s patents. 

Subject to certain expense allocations and other offsets provided in the Lantibiotic ECC, we will pay Intrexon on a quarterly basis 25% of gross quarterly profits derived in that quarter from the sale of products developed from the Lantibiotic ECC, calculated on an Oragenics Product-by-Oragenics Product basis. We have likewise agreed to pay Intrexon on a quarterly basis 50% of revenue obtained in that quarter from a sublicensor in the event of a sublicensing arrangement. 

We have agreed to indemnify and hold Intrexon harmless from any damages caused as a result of (i) our negligence or willful misconduct, (ii) the use, handling, storage, or transport of Intrexon Materials (as defined in the Lantibiotic ECC), (iii) our breach of a material representation, warranty or covenant in the Lantibiotic ECC, or (iv) the design, development, manufacture, regulatory approval, handling, storage, transport, distribution, sale or other disposition of any Oragenics Product. 

Intrexon may terminate the Lantibiotic ECC if we fail to use diligent efforts to develop and commercialize Oragenics Products or if we elect not to pursue the development of a Lantibiotics Program identified by Intrexon that is a &#147;Superior Therapy&#148; as defined in the Lantibiotic ECC. We may voluntarily terminate the Lantibiotic ECC at any time upon 90 days written notice to Intrexon. 

Upon termination of the Lantibiotic ECC, we may continue to develop and commercialize any Oragenics Product that has been, at the time of termination: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; commercialized by us; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; approved by regulatory authorities; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a subject of an application for regulatory approval that is pending before the applicable regulatory authority; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the subject of at least an ongoing Phase 1, Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trial in the Field (in the case of a termination by Intrexon due to an uncured material breach by the Company or a voluntary termination by us). Our obligation to pay 25% of gross profits or revenue and the milestone payments described above with respect to these &#147;retained&#148; products as well as to use diligent efforts to develop and commercialize these &#147;retained&#148; Oragenics Products will survive termination of the Lantibiotic ECC. 

In addition, in partial consideration for each party&#146;s execution and delivery of the Lantibiotic ECC, we entered into a Stock Issuance Agreement with Intrexon. Pursuant to the Stock Issuance Agreement, we issued to Intrexon 4,392,425 shares of our common stock as an initial technology access fee, in consideration for the execution and delivery of the Lantibiotic ECC and granted Intrexon certain equity participation rights and registration rights. 

The registration rights granted to Intrexon in the Stock Issuance Agreement by us consisted of &#147;piggyback registration&#148; rights which permit Intrexon to participate in any firm commitment underwritten offering of securities by us, subject to underwriter cutbacks and lockups. In addition, we are precluded from granting registration rights in connection with a private placement unless (i) all shares held by Intrexon are, at the time of such private placement, included on a registration statement, or (ii) we agree, in connection with such private placement, to grant Intrexon the right to include on the registration statement a number of Intrexon&#146;s Company shares equal to one half of the number of shares to be registered on behalf of the other holders or prospective holders. 

Pursuant to the Stock Issuance Agreement, Intrexon is also entitled, at its election, to participate in future securities offerings by us that constitute &#147;qualified financings&#148; and purchase securities equal to 30% of the number of shares of common stock or other securities sold in such offering (exclusive of Intrexon&#146;s purchase). For this purpose, a &#147;qualified financing&#148; means a sale of common stock or equity securities convertible into common stock in a public or private offering, raising gross proceeds of at least $1,000,000, where the sale of shares is either registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, at the time of issuance or we agree to register the resale of such shares. 

Under the Stock Issuance Agreement and as part of the Lantibiotic ECC, the Company has also agreed to make certain payments to Intrexon upon our achievement of designated milestones in the form of shares of our common stock or, at our option, make a cash payment to Intrexon (based upon the fair market value of the shares otherwise required to be issued). The milestone events and amounts payable are as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; (i) upon filing of the first Investigational New Drug application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for an Oragenics Product, that number of shares equal to the number of shares of common stock comprising 1.0% of the Base Shares (as defined below); &#160;

&#160; (ii) upon the dosing of the first patient in the first Phase 2 clinical study with an Oragenics Product, that number of shares equal to the number of shares of common stock comprising 1.5% of the Base Shares; &#160;

&#160; (iii) upon the dosing of the first patient in the first Phase 3 clinical study with an Oragenics Product, that number of shares equal to the number of shares of common stock comprising 2% of the Base Shares; &#160;

&#160; (iv) upon the filing of the first New Drug Application (&#147;NDA&#148;) or Biologics License Application (&#147;BLA&#148;) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for an Oragenics Product, or alternatively the filing of the first equivalent regulatory filing with a foreign regulatory agency, that number of shares equal to the number of shares of Common Stock comprising 2.5% of the Base Shares; and &#160;

&#160; (v) upon the granting of the first regulatory approval of an Oragenics Product, that number of shares equal to the number of shares of Common Stock comprising 3% of the Base Shares. Base Shares is defined in the Stock Issuance Agreement to mean (i) the number of shares of our common stock together with any securities or instruments convertible or exercisable for shares of common stock issued and outstanding at the time of the applicable milestone event, (ii) minus any shares issuable upon conversion of Capital Inducement Securities. Capital Inducement Securities is defined in the Stock Issuance Agreement to mean warrants or other convertible securities of the Company issued to investors in connection with a debt or equity investment in us that are issued in addition to the primary investment securities and in an amount not to exceed 10% of the overall number of shares issued in the investment (on an as-converted to common stock basis). 

None of the Lantibiotic ECC milestones had been achieved as of December 31, 2015. 

The Oral Mucositis ECC 

On June 9, 2015, we entered into an ECC with Intrexon and Actobiotics, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intrexon, through which we intend to research, develop and commercialize products, including the continued development and commercialization of AG013, for use in the treatment of oral mucositis in humans and/or the administration to humans of a trefoil factor via genetically modified 

&#160;

bacteria (including L. lactis ) for the treatment of diseases and conditions of the oral cavity, throat, and esophagus, but, in any case, excluding the delivery of anti-cancer effectors for the purpose of treatment or prophylaxis of cancer (collectively, the &#147;Program&#148;). Contemporaneously with the ECC, we and Intrexon also entered into a Stock Issuance Agreement (the &#147;SIA&#148;) which authorized the issuance of the Technology Access Fee and the future stock issuance of our Common Stock to Intrexon upon the achievement of designated milestones. We issued a Convertible Note in the amount of $5,000,000 as payment of the technology access fee associated with the Oral Mucositis ECC which was payable, at our option, in cash or shares of our common stock. 

The ECC governs the &#147;channel collaboration&#148; arrangement in which we will use Intrexon&#146;s proprietary technology relating to the identification, design and production of genetically modified bacteria for the purpose of developing the Program. 

The ECC provides for the establishment of committees comprised from us and Intrexon representatives that will govern activities in the areas of project establishment, chemistry, manufacturing and controls, clinical and regulatory matters, commercialization efforts, and intellectual property. 

The ECC grants us an exclusive worldwide license to utilize Intrexon&#146;s and Actobiotics&#146; intellectual property to develop and commercialize products, including the continued development and commercialization of AG013, for use in the treatment of oral mucositis in humans and/or the administration to humans of a trefoil factor via genetically modified bacteria (including L. lactis ) for the treatment of diseases and conditions of the oral cavity, throat, and esophagus, but, in any case, excluding the delivery of anti-cancer effectors for the purpose of treatment or prophylaxis of cancer (the &#147;Field&#148;). It also grants us an exclusive license in the Field under all Information Controlled by Actobiotics (or otherwise by Intrexon) and existing as of the Effective Date relating to the regulatory approval of AG013, including regulatory filings, data, clinical trial reports, and rights thereunder. 

Under the Oral Mucositis ECC, and subject to certain exceptions, we are responsible for, among other things, funding the further anticipated development of products toward the goal of commercialization, conducting preclinical and clinical development of candidate products, as well as for other aspects of manufacturing and the commercialization of the product(s). Among other things, Intrexon is responsible for technology discovery efforts, cell-engineering development, and certain aspects of the manufacturing process. 

We will pay Intrexon on a quarterly basis 12% of the net sales derived from the sale of products developed from the exclusive channel collaboration. We likewise agreed to pay Intrexon on a quarterly basis 50% of revenue obtained in that quarter from a sublicensor in the event of a sublicensing arrangement. 

We also agreed to make certain payments to Intrexon upon our achievement of designated milestones in the form of shares of our Common Stock (based upon the fair market value of the shares otherwise required to be issued) unless the issuance of such shares would reasonably likely cause Intrexon to consolidate our financial statements with Intrexon&#146;s financial statements, or at our option make a cash payment to Intrexon. The Commercialization Milestone Events and amounts payable are as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; (i) two million United States dollars ($2,000,000) within thirty (30) days of the first instance of the achievement of the Phase 2 Milestone Event meaning the first dosing of a patient by or on our behalf, or our Affiliate or permitted sublicensee, in a Phase 2 clinical trial, whether such occurs in the United States of America under the jurisdiction of the FDA or elsewhere under the jurisdiction of a foreign regulatory agency, for each different Oragenics Product; &#160;

&#160; (ii) five million United States dollars ($5,000,000) within thirty (30) days of the first instance of the achievement of the Phase 2b/3 Milestone Event meaning meeting of the primary endpoint by or on our behalf, or our Affiliate or permitted sublicensee of Oragenics, in a Phase 3 clinical trial, whether such occurs in the United States of America under the jurisdiction of the FDA or elsewhere under the jurisdiction of a foreign regulatory agency, for each different Oragenics Product; &#160;

&#160; (iii) five million United States dollars ($5,000,000) within thirty (30) days of the first instance of the achievement of the Regulatory Approval Application Milestone Event for each different Oragenics Product which Regulatory Approval Application Milestone Event meaning for a given Oragenics Product, the first to occur of (a) the filing by us, our Affiliate, or a permitted sublicensee thereof, of a FDA New Drug Application or a Biologics License Application with the FDA seeking approval of such Oragenics Product, or (b) the filing of an equivalent approval or marketing application for such Oragenics Product with an equivalent regulatory authority in a foreign jurisdiction; &#160;

&#160; (iv) ten million United States dollars ($10,000,000) within thirty (30) days of the first instance of the achievement of the Approval Milestone Event for each different Oragenics Product which Approval Milestone Event meaning the first to occur of (a) the First Commercial Sale of an Oragenics Product anywhere in the Territory, or (b) 90th day after the approval of a FDA New Drug Application for an Oragenics Product by the FDA or equivalent regulatory action in a foreign jurisdiction; 

&#160;

&#160; (v) We shall pay Intrexon a milestone payment of five million United States dollars ($5,000,000) within thirty (30) days of the first instance of the achievement of the New Indication Milestone Event meaning the filing by or on our behalf, our Affiliate, or a permitted sublicensee a Supplemental FDA Application with the FDA or with another equivalent regulatory agency seeking approval of an indication for use of the product AG013 other than the current regulatory-approved indication; and &#160;

&#160; (vi) We shall pay Intrexon a milestone payment of five million United States dollars ($5,000,000) within thirty (30) days of the first instance of the achievement of the New Product Milestone Event meaning the filing of a regulatory package filed with the FDA or with another equivalent regulatory agency by or on our behalf, our Affiliate, or a permitted sublicensee, that is deemed (according to relevant FDA guideline) to be a different drug product than AG013. None of the Oral Mucositis ECC milestones had been achieved as of December 31, 2015. 

We may voluntarily terminate the Oral Mucositis ECC upon 90 days written notice to Intrexon. Intrexon may also terminate the ECC if we breach and fail to cure the breach within 60 days or we do not pursue development of the Superior Therapy under the probiotics identified by Intrexon that is a &#147;Superior Therapy&#148; as defined in the ECC. Upon termination of the ECC, we may continue to develop and commercialize any Company Product that, at the time of termination that satisfies at least one of the following criteria: 

&#160;

&#160; (i) the particular Company Product is being sold by the Company triggering profit sharing payments under the ECC to Intrexon; &#160;

&#160; (ii) the particular Company Product has received regulatory approval; &#160;

&#160; (iii) the particular Company Product is a subject of an application for regulatory approval in the Field covered by the ECC that is pending before the applicable regulatory authority; &#160;

&#160; (iv) the particular Company Product is AG013, and such Company Product has been the subject of at least one completed Phase 2 clinical trial (as such is defined by relevant FDA guidelines) during the Term; or &#160;

&#160; (v) the particular Company Product other than AG013 and such Oragenics Product is the subject of at least an ongoing Phase 1, Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trial in the Field. Government Regulations 

The formulation, manufacturing, processing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by federal agencies, including, but not limited to the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC. These activities also are regulated by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are sold. In particular, the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, regulates the safety, manufacturing, labeling and distribution of drugs, medical devices, food, and dietary supplements. In addition, the FTC has primary jurisdiction to regulate the advertising of drugs, medical devices, food and dietary supplements. In foreign countries these same activities may be regulated by Ministries of Health, or other local regulatory agencies. The manner in which products sold in foreign countries are registered, how they are formulated, or what claims may be permitted may differ from similar products and practices in the United States. 

FDA Regulation&#151;Food 

Under the FDCA, the FDA is responsible for ensuring that foods are safe, wholesome, and correctly labeled. The FDA enforces statutory prohibitions against misbranded and adulterated foods, and establishes safety standards for food processing and ingredients, manufacturing procedures for processed foods, and labeling standards for food products. 

All facilities engaged in manufacturing, processing, packing or holding food for consumption in the United States must be registered with FDA before such activities begin. Those who manufacture, package, or hold food must comply with the Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMPs, for foods. The GMPs describe the methods, equipment, facilities, and controls for producing processed food, including requirements for personnel such as education, training and cleanliness requirements; proper maintenance and sanitization of buildings, facilities, and equipment; and processes and controls. 

Acceptable claims for foods fall into three categories: health claims, structure/function claims and nutrient content claims. Health claims describe a relationship between a food, food component, or dietary ingredient and reducing the risk of a disease or health-related condition. The FDA authorizes these types of health claims based on an extensive review of the scientific literature, generally as a result of the submission of a health claim petition. Manufacturers also may make certain health claims based on &#147;authoritative statements&#148; from a scientific body of the U.S. Government or the National Academy of Sciences. Structure/function claims describe the role of a nutrient or dietary ingredient intended to affect or maintain normal structure or function of the body, and may characterize the means by which a nutrient or dietary ingredient acts to maintain such structure or function. Nutrient content claims expressly or by implication characterize the level of a nutrient in a food, by using terms such as &#147;free,&#148; &#147;high&#148; or &#147;low.&#148; The FDA&#146;s regulations define the nutrient content claims that may be used and the requirements for making such claims. 

&#160;

Labels for food must not be false or misleading. Required information for labels includes the name of the food, the net quantity, the name and address of the manufacturer, packer or distributor, the ingredient list, and a Nutrition Facts label. In addition to the information required to be in a Nutrition Facts label, other nutrients must be included in the Nutrition Facts label if the nutrients are added as a nutrient supplement to the food, if the label makes a nutrition claim about them, or if advertising or product literature connects the nutrients to the food. The FDA considers information that is required or permitted in the Nutrition Facts label, on the front label or elsewhere on the package to be a nutrition content claim. In such cases, the package label must comply with the regulations for nutrient content claims. 

Under the FDCA, any substance that is intentionally added to food is a food ingredient, which is subject to premarket review and approval by the FDA, unless the substance is Generally Recognized As Safe, or GRAS, which means that the substance is generally recognized, among qualified experts, as having been adequately shown to be safe under the conditions of its intended use, or unless the use of the substance is otherwise excluded from the definition of a food ingredient. Under FDA&#146;s regulations, the use of a food substance may be GRAS either through scientific procedures that may be voluntarily submitted to the FDA, or, for a substance used in food before 1958, through experience based on common use in food. General recognition of safety through scientific procedures requires the same quantity and quality of scientific evidence as required to obtain approval of the substance as a food ingredient and ordinarily is based upon published studies, which may be corroborated by unpublished studies and other data and information. General recognition of safety through experience based on common use in foods requires a substantial history of consumption for food use by a significant number of consumers. To be considered &#147;safe&#148; for its intended use, there must be a reasonable certainty in the minds of competent scientists that the substance is not harmful under its intended conditions of use. The specific data and information that demonstrate safety depend on the characteristics of the substance, the estimated dietary intake, and the population that will consume the substance. 

Registered food facilities that manufacture, process, pack, or hold food for human or animal consumption in the United States are required to submit a report to the FDA&#146;s Reportable Food Registry, or RFR, when there is a reasonable probability that the use of, or exposure to, an article of food will cause serious adverse health consequences or death. The RFR covers all foods regulated by FDA except infant formula and dietary supplements. Registered facilities must report as soon as practicable, but in no case later than 24 hours after it is determined that an article of food is a reportable food. 

FDA Regulation&#151;Dietary Supplements 

The Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994, or DSHEA, amended the FDCA by establishing regulatory standards with respect to dietary supplements, and defining dietary supplements as a new category of food. Dietary supplements include vitamins, minerals, amino acids, nutritional supplements, herbs and botanicals intended for ingestion that are labeled as dietary supplements and are not represented for use as a conventional food or as a sole item of a meal or the diet. Under DSHEA, a firm that manufactures or distributes dietary supplements must determine that such products are safe and that any representations or claims made about the products are substantiated by adequate evidence to show that the claims are not false or misleading. DSHEA does not require manufacturers or distributors to seek approval from the FDA before producing or selling a dietary supplement unless the supplement contains one or more ingredients that are considered to be a &#147;new dietary ingredient.&#148; A &#147;new dietary ingredient&#148; is one that was not marketed in the United States before October 15, 1994. The manufacturer or distributor of a dietary supplement that contains a &#147;new dietary ingredient&#148; must provide the FDA with information, including any citations to published articles, demonstrating why the ingredient is reasonably expected to be safe for use in a dietary supplement at least 75 days before the dietary supplement is introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce. This requirement does not apply if the ingredient has been recognized as a food substance and is present in the food supply. 

Because dietary supplements are foods, manufacturers of dietary supplements must register the facilities where the supplements are manufactured, processed, packed or held with the FDA before such activities begin. Those who manufacture, package or hold dietary supplements also must comply with GMPs for dietary supplements. According to the GMPs, dietary supplements must be prepared, packaged, labeled and held in compliance with specific requirements, including detailed quality control requirements, such as those for maintaining and cleaning facilities and instruments, hiring and training personnel and ensuring the appropriate manufacturing environment, testing requirements, recordkeeping requirements and handling of customer complaints. Anyone who manufactures, packages, labels or holds dietary supplements must evaluate and ensure the identity, purity, strength and composition of the products. FDA regulations also require that certain information appear on dietary supplement labels, including the name of the dietary supplement, the amount of the dietary supplement, nutrition labeling, a complete list of ingredients and the name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer or distributor. 

Manufacturers must ensure, and have substantiation showing, that claims made about dietary supplements are truthful and not misleading. Acceptable claims for dietary supplements are the same as those for conventional foods: health claims, structure/function claims and nutrient content claims. However, additional requirements apply to manufacturers of dietary supplements who make structure/function claims. Manufacturers of dietary supplements must notify the FDA of any structure/function claims made for a dietary supplement within 30 days of first marketing the product with the identified claims. A dietary supplement that includes a 

&#160;

structure/function claim on its labeling is also required to bear a prescribed disclaimer: &#147;This statement has not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.&#148; The manufacturer, packer, or distributor of a dietary supplement must submit to the FDA any report it receives of a serious adverse event associated with the dietary supplement when used in the United States, accompanied by a copy of the label of the dietary supplement, no later than 15 business days after the report is received. A &#147;serious adverse event&#148; is an adverse event that results in death, a life-threatening experience, inpatient hospitalization, a persistent or significant disability or incapacity, a congenital anomaly or birth defect, or requires, based on a reasonable medical judgment, medical or surgical intervention to prevent such outcomes. 

The FDA may take action to restrict use of a dietary supplement or to remove it from the marketplace if the agency believes the supplement presents a significant or unreasonable risk of illness or injury under conditions of use suggested in the labeling or under ordinary conditions of use. Under DSHEA, the FDA bears the burden of proof to show that a dietary supplement presents a significant or unreasonable risk of illness or injury. The FDA also may take enforcement action against a dietary supplement manufacturer or distributor for unlawful promotion of a dietary supplement, such as making claims that a supplement treats, prevents or cures a specific disease or condition. These claims would subject the dietary supplement to regulation as a drug product. If dietary supplements do not meet applicable requirements, the manufacturer may need to undertake a voluntary recall. 

FDA Regulation&#151;Biological Products and New Drug Products 

Under the FDCA all new drugs and biological products are subject to pre-market approval by the FDA. In contrast to chemically synthesized small molecular weight drugs, which have a well-defined structure and can be thoroughly characterized, biological products are generally derived from living material&#151;human, animal, or microorganism&#151;are complex in structure, and thus are usually not fully characterized. Biological products include blood-derived products, vaccines, in vivo diagnostic allergenic products, immunoglobulin products, products containing cells or microorganisms, and most protein products. Biological products subject to the Public Health Service, or PHS, Act also meet the definition of drugs under the FDCA, therefore both biological products and drugs are regulated under provisions of the FDCA. However, only biological products are licensed under the PHS Act. The overall development process for biological products is similar to that for drugs. The steps ordinarily required before a biological product or new drug may be marketed in the United States include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of nonclinical studies according to Good Laboratory Practice, or GLP, regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the submission of an IND application to the FDA, which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials according to Good Clinical Practices to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed biological product or new drug for its intended use; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is manufactured, processed, packaged or held to assess compliance with GMPs; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the submission to, and review and approval by, the FDA of a biologics license application, or BLA, or new drug application, or NDA, that includes satisfactory results of nonclinical testing and clinical trials. Nonclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of the product candidate, its formulation and stability, as well as animal studies. The FDA requires that nonclinical tests be conducted in compliance with GLP regulations. The results of nonclinical testing are submitted as part of an IND application to the FDA together with manufacturing information for the clinical supply, analytical data, the protocol for the initial clinical trials and any available clinical data or literature. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, places the clinical trial on a clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. FDA may also impose clinical holds at any time before or during studies due to safety concerns or non-compliance. 

Clinical trials to support BLAs and NDAs involve the administration of the investigational product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. 

In Phase 1 clinical trials, the biological or new drug product candidate is initially introduced into human subjects or patients and assessed for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion, including any side effects associated with increasing doses. 

Phase 2 clinical trials usually involve studies in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks; preliminarily assess the efficacy of the product candidate in specific, targeted indications; and assess dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. 

&#160;

If a product candidate is found to be potentially effective and to have an acceptable safety profile in Phase 2 evaluations, Phase 3 trials are undertaken within an expanded patient population at multiple study sites to further demonstrate clinical efficacy and safety, further evaluate dosage and establish the risk-benefit ratio of the product and an adequate basis for product labeling. 

Phase 4, or post-marketing, trials may be mandated by the FDA or may be conducted voluntarily. Phase 4 trials are typically initiated to monitor the safety and efficacy of a biological product or new drug in its approved population and indication over a longer period of time, so that rare or long-term adverse effects can be detected over a much larger patient population and time than was possible during prior clinical trials. Alternatively, Phase 4 trials may be used to test a new method of product administration, or to investigate a product&#146;s use in other indications. Adverse effects detected by Phase 4 trials may result in the withdrawal or restriction of a product. 

If the required Phase 1, 2 and 3 clinical testing is completed successfully, the results of product development, nonclinical studies and clinical trials, descriptions of the manufacturing process and other relevant information concerning the safety and effectiveness of the biological product or new drug candidate are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA or NDA. In most cases, the BLA or NDA must be accompanied by a substantial user fee. The FDA may deny a BLA or NDA if all applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional data, including clinical, toxicology, safety or manufacturing data. It can take several years for the FDA to approve a BLA or NDA once it is submitted, if at all, and the actual time required for any product candidate may vary substantially, depending upon the nature, complexity and novelty of the product candidate. Before approving an application, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve a BLA or NDA unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with GMP requirements. 

If the FDA evaluations of the BLA or NDA and the manufacturing facilities are favorable, the FDA will issue an approval letter. If the FDA determines that it will not approve an NDA or BLA in its present form for one or more reasons, the FDA will issue a complete response letter. The complete response letter usually contains a number of conditions that must be met before FDA will approve the BLA or NDA. If the BLA or NDA does not meet the criteria for approval, the FDA may deny the application. 

The required testing, data collection, analysis and compilation of an IND and a BLA or NDA are labor intensive and costly and may take a great deal of time. Tests may have to be redone or new tests performed in order to comply with FDA requirements. It can take considerable time (e.g. 5-10 years) and resources to achieve enrollment sufficient to commence such trials and complete Phase 2 or 3 clinical trials. Moreover, there is no guarantee a product will be approved. 

FDA Regulation&#151;Medical Devices 

Medical devices also are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. To be commercially distributed in the United States, devices that are not exempt from FDA&#146;s premarket notification, or 510(k) procedures, or are pre-amendment devices, meaning they were on the market prior to May 28, 1976, must receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval, or PMA, from the FDA prior to marketing. Devices are assigned to one of three classes depending on the controls the FDA deems necessary to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the devices. Devices deemed to pose the least risk are placed in Class I. A Class I device is 510(k) exempt unless the device is intended for a use which is of substantial importance in preventing impairment of human health, or the device presents a potential unreasonable risk of illness or injury. Class II devices require the manufacturer to submit a pre-market notification to FDA unless they are 510(k) exempt. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously 510(k) cleared device and certain other devices are placed in Class III. Most Class III devices require approved PMAs before marketing, although some Class III devices can get to market through the 510(k) process. 

To obtain 510(k) clearance, a manufacturer must submit a pre-market notification demonstrating that the proposed device is &#147;substantially equivalent&#148; to a &#147;predicate device,&#148; which is a previously 510(k) cleared Class I or Class II device, a pre-amendment Class III device for which the FDA has not yet called for PMA applications or a device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976. To demonstrate substantial equivalence, the applicant must show that the device has the same intended use and the same technological characteristics as the predicate, or if the device has different technological characteristics than the predicate, the device does not raise new questions of safety and effectiveness, and is at least as safe and effective as the predicate. The FDA&#146;s 510 (k) clearance pathway usually takes from four to twelve months, but it can last longer. After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a PMA approval. 

A product not eligible for 510(k) clearance must follow the PMA pathway, which requires proof that there is a reasonable assurance of a device&#146;s safety and efficacy to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction. The PMA pathway is much more costly and lengthy than the 510(k) pathway. A PMA application typically must provide extensive nonclinical and clinical trial data and also information about the device and its components including, among other things, device design, manufacturing and labeling. As part of the PMA review, the FDA will typically inspect the manufacturer&#146;s facilities for compliance with quality system regulation requirements, which impose elaborate testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures. Upon acceptance by the FDA of what it considers a completed 

&#160;

filing, the FDA commences an in-depth review of the PMA application, which typically takes from one to two years, but may last longer. Even after approval of a PMA, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required in the event of a modification affecting the safety or effectiveness of the device. 

FDA Regulation&#151;Post-Market Requirements 

Even if regulatory clearances or approvals for our product candidates are obtained, our products and the facilities manufacturing our products, including foods, will be subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the FDA. The FDA may perform these inspections at any time without advanced notice. For example, as a condition of approval of an NDA, the FDA may require us to engage in post-marketing testing and surveillance and to monitor the safety and efficacy of our products. Holders of an approved NDA, BLA, or PMA, or 510(k) clearance are subject to several post-market requirements, including the reporting of certain adverse events involving their products to the FDA, provision of updated safety and efficacy information, and compliance with requirements concerning the advertising and promotion of their products. 

The FDA will inspect manufacturing facilities to confirm that the facilities comply with GMP requirements. To comply with GMP requirements, manufacturers must expend money, time and effort in the area of production and quality control to ensure full compliance. For example, manufacturers of biologic products must establish validated systems to ensure that products meet high standards of sterility, safety, purity, potency and identity, and must report to the FDA any deviations from GMP or any unexpected or unforeseeable event that may affect a product&#146;s safety, purity, or potency. The regulations also impose documentation requirements and require manufacturers of drugs, biologics or devices to investigate and correct any unexplained discrepancy or the failure of a lot or unit to meet any of its specifications. 

Failure to comply with the applicable FDA requirements may subject manufacturers and distributors to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include, among other things, warning letters, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, civil money penalties, fines, restitution, disgorgement, or civil or criminal penalties. Further, the FDA has authority to issue mandatory recalls for medical devices and biologics, and we may need to undertake a voluntary recall for any of our products. 

In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA, we are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal, state and local regulations. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials and radioactive compounds. 

FTC Regulation 

The advertising of our products is subject to regulation by the FTC under the Federal Trade Commission Act, in addition to state and local regulation. The Federal Trade Commission Act prohibits unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce. The Federal Trade Commission Act also provides that the dissemination or the causing to be disseminated of any false advertisement pertaining to drugs or foods, which would include dietary supplements, is an unfair or deceptive act or practice. Under the FTC&#146;s Substantiation Doctrine, an advertiser is required to have a &#147;reasonable basis&#148; for all objective product claims before the claims are made. Failure to adequately substantiate claims may be considered either deceptive or unfair practices. Pursuant to this FTC requirement we are required to have adequate substantiation for all advertising claims made for our products. 

In recent years the FTC has initiated numerous investigations of dietary supplement and weight loss products and companies. We may be the subject of investigation in the future, and the FTC may impose limitations on our advertising of products. The FTC has a variety of processes and remedies available to it for enforcement, both administratively and judicially, including compulsory processes, cease and desist orders, and injunctions. FTC enforcement can result in orders requiring, among other things, limits on advertising, corrective advertising, consumer redress, divestiture of assets, rescission of contracts and such other relief as may be deemed necessary. 

International Regulation 

Our product candidates are subject to regulation in every country where they will be tested or used. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product candidate, we must obtain the necessary approvals from the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence testing or marketing of a product candidate in those countries. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and the approval processes vary from country to country and the time required may be longer or shorter than that associated with FDA approval. As in the United States, post-approval regulatory requirements, such as those regarding product manufacture, marketing, or distribution, would apply to any product that is approved outside the United States. 

&#160;

Future Legislation and Regulations 

In the future we may be subject to additional laws or regulations by the FDA or other federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities, the repeal of laws or regulations, or more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. We are unable to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, or interpretations, nor can we predict what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on our business in the future. For example, for dietary supplements, the FDA or other governmental regulatory bodies could require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, imposition of additional record keeping requirements, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Competition 

Our industry is subject to rapid and intense technological change. Competition is intense among manufacturers of nutritional, non-prescription, and prescription pharmaceuticals. We face, and will continue to face, competition from nutraceutical, pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies developing similar products and technologies both in the United States and abroad, as well as numerous academic and research institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations engaged in drug funding or research and discovery activities both in the United States and abroad. Academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations may also conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research and clinical development of technologies and products similar to ours. We also face competition from entities and healthcare providers using more traditional methods. We believe there are a substantial number of products under development by numerous nutraceutical, pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies, and it is likely that other competitors will emerge. 

Many of our existing and potential competitors are large, well established pharmaceutical, chemical or healthcare companies with considerably greater research and product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we have. As a result, these competitors may succeed in developing competing products earlier than we do; obtain patents that block or otherwise inhibit our ability to further develop and commercialize our product candidates; obtain approvals from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for products more rapidly than we do; or develop treatments or cures that are safer or more effective than those we propose to develop. These competitors may also devote greater resources to marketing or selling their products and may be better able to withstand price competition. In addition, these competitors may introduce or adapt more quickly to new technologies or scientific advances, which could render our technologies obsolete, and may introduce products or technologies that make the continued development, production, or marketing of our product candidates uneconomical. These competitors may also be more successful in negotiating third-party licensing or collaborative arrangements and may be able to take advantage of acquisitions or other strategic opportunities more readily than we can. These actions by competitors or potential competitors could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully. 

We have a limited ability to predict how competitive our products and product candidates will be in the market place. The competition we believe currently exists with respect to each of our products is as follows: 

MU1140 Homologs and Other Lantibiotics 

MU1140 will likely compete directly with antibiotic drugs such as vancomycin and newer drugs, including Cubicin (daptomycin) and Zyvox (linezolid). Given the growing resistance of target pathogens to even new antibiotics, we believe that there is ample room in the marketplace for additional antibiotics. Many of our competitors are taking approaches to drug development differing from our approach, including using traditional screening of natural products; genomics to identify new targets, and combinatorial chemistry to generate new chemical structures. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is based on drug safety, efficacy, ease of use, patient compliance, price, marketing, and distribution. Our lantibiotic development will depend on our success in developing MU1140 and/or homologs and to the point of commercialization or partnership and in the process securing and protecting our intellectual property. 

AG013 and Oral Mucositis 

There are several companies pursuing therapies for the treatment of Oral Mucositis. Several large pharmaceutical companies are also thought to be looking at this area and they have significantly more resources than we do. 

ProBiora3 Oral Care Probiotics 

Many companies sell probiotics that are principally designed for digestive health, vaginal and urinary tract health, and immune system support. Our product will not compete directly with the products of these companies. Researchers at the University of Hiroshima in Japan have published studies indicating that Lactobacillus reuteri , or L. reuteri , a bacterial species isolated from the gastrointestinal tract, can reduce the levels of S. mutans in the mouth and may aid in the prevention of tooth decay . L. reuteri is widely used as a 

&#160;

probiotic for other indications and recently has been promoted for dental health. We are aware of a probiotic product from BioGaia AB/Sunstar, containing a strain of L. reuteri , which is on the market today as GUM &#174; PerioBalance &#174; and is targeted to maintain oral health. Another probiotic bacteria for oral care, known as BLIS K12 probiotic, is commercially available from BLIS Technologies, Ltd., a New Zealand company. BLIS K12 is promoted as a probiotic for bad breath and contains the bacterium, Streptococcus salivarius K12. This bacterium principally colonizes the tongue and throat surfaces in the oral cavity, and as such is promoted only for its oral care activity as an aid for halitosis. We believe ProBiora3, with its unique blend of three proprietary probiotic strains, potentially has greater beneficial actions for maintaining oral health than these other products. 

LPT3-04 Weight Loss Agent 

The weight loss/management product category contains a host of companies selling solutions for boosting metabolism and thus increasing the body&#146;s rate of burning fat, for affecting satiety, or for blocking the absorption of fats or carbohydrates from the digestive tract. Many of these competitors are large companies with considerable resources and significant experience in this market area. 

Our Intellectual Property 

We rely upon a combination of licenses, patents, trade secrets, know-how, and licensing opportunities to develop our business. Our future prospects depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We also need to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. 

Patents 

We attempt to protect our technology and products through patents and patent applications. We have a portfolio of patents and patent applications covering certain of our product candidates and other technologies. As of December 31, 2015, we held two U.S. issued patents, five U.S. patent applications pending, twenty seven foreign issued patents, and twenty-two foreign patent applications pending. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, we have licenses for approximately five U.S. issued patents, zero U.S. patent applications pending, eleven foreign issued patents and zero foreign patent application pending. We reassess the value of each patent at the time maintenance fees are due, and in cases where maintaining the patent is judged to be of no significant strategic value we decline to pay the fee. 

The following table sets forth information regarding each of our currently held or licensed United States patents: 

Antibiotics 

&#160;

Patent No. 

&#160; Patent Expiration &#160; Title/Product 

&#160; Ownership 

&#160; Jurisdiction Where Granted 

5,932,469 &#160; 2017 &#160; Antimicrobial Polypeptide, Nucleic Acid and Methods of Use (MU1140)

&#160; Exclusive

License

&#160; USA

6,391,285 &#160; 2017 &#160; Antimicrobial Polypeptide, Nucleic Acid and Methods of Use (MU1140)

&#160; Exclusive

License

&#160; USA

6,475,771 &#160; 2017 &#160; Antimicrobial Polypeptide, Nucleic Acid Modification Enzyme and Methods of Use (MU1140)

&#160; Exclusive

License

&#160; USA

6,964,760 &#160; 2018 &#160; Antimicrobial Polypeptide, Nucleic Acid and Methods of Use (MU1140)

&#160; Exclusive

License

&#160; USA

7,067,125 &#160; 2019 &#160; Antimicrobial Polypeptide, Nucleic Acid Modification Enzyme and Methods of Use (MU1140)

&#160; Exclusive

License

&#160; USA

ProBiora3 

&#160;

Patent No. 

&#160; Patent Expiration &#160; Title/Product 

&#160; Ownership 

&#160; Jurisdiction Where Granted 

7,931,892 &#160; 2027 &#160; Compositions and Methods for the Maintenance of Oral Health

&#160; Owned

&#160; USA

8,865,156 &#160; 2025 &#160; Compositions and Methods for the Maintenance of Oral Health

&#160; Owned

&#160; USA

&#160;

Replacement Therapy 

&#160;

Patent No. 

&#160; Patent Expiration &#160; Title/Product 

&#160; Ownership 

&#160; Jurisdiction Where Granted 

9,260,488 &#160; 2033 &#160; Replacement Therapy for Dental Carries

&#160; Owned

&#160; USA

We have exclusively licensed the intellectual property for our MU1140 antibiotic product candidate from the UFRF. Our exclusive license agreement extends through to the patent expiration dates. See &#147;Our In-Licensed Technology Agreements.&#148; We co-own the intellectual property for certain homologs of our MU1140 product candidate with the Texas A&#38;M University System. We have exclusively licensed the rights of the Texas A&#38;M University System to this intellectual property. We have an exclusive, worldwide license from Intrexon to use its technology to develop lantibiotics. We also have an exclusive worldwide license from Intrexon and its wholly owned subsidiary, Actobiotics NV to use their intellectual property to develop AG013 for the treatment of oral mucositis. 

The effect of the issued patents is that they provide us with patent protection for the claims covered by the patents. While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered product or product candidate, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later-granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law. The effect of patent expiration on products or product candidates also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. 

Our pending patent applications cover a range of technologies, including specific embodiments and applications for treatment of various medical indications, improved application methods and adjunctive utilization with other therapeutic modalities. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Accordingly, we do not know whether any of the applications we acquire or license will result in the issuance of patents, or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide significant proprietary protection or will be challenged, circumvented or invalidated. Because unissued U.S. patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of eighteen months and U.S. patent applications filed prior to November 29, 2000 are not disclosed until such patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain of the priority of inventions covered by pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in opposition proceedings in a foreign patent office, or for United States patent applications filed before March 16, 2013, in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, or in United States inter partes review or post-grant review procedures, any of which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. There can be no assurance that the patents, if issued, would be held valid by a court of competent jurisdiction. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using such technology. 

We have patents and patent applications in other countries, as well as in the European Patent Office that we believe provide equivalent or comparable protection for our product candidates in jurisdictions internationally that we consider to be key markets. Because of the differences in patent laws and laws concerning proprietary rights, the extent of protection provided by U.S. patents or proprietary rights owned by us may differ from that of their foreign counterparts. 

We believe that our patents, the protection of discoveries in connection with our development activities, our proprietary products, technologies, processes and know-how and all of our intellectual property are important to our business. All of our brand products are sold under trademarks. To achieve a competitive position, we rely on trade secrets, non-patented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation, where patent protection is not believed to be appropriate or attainable. In addition, as outlined above, we have a number of patent licenses from third parties, some of which may be important to our business. See &#147;Our In-licensed Technology&#148;. There can be no assurance that any of our patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights will afford us any protection from competition. 

Trademarks 

Our trademarks are of material importance to our business. We have developed many brand names and trademarks for our products. Accordingly, our future success may depend in part upon the goodwill associated with our brand names. We currently use the following unregistered trademarks: SMaRT Replacement Therapy&#153;, MU1140&#153;, IVIAT&#153; and CMAT&#153;, LPT3-04&#153;, and DPOLT&#153;. We currently have pending with the U.S. PTO, applications for registration of the mark of ORAGENICS&#153; (therapeutic products; anti-infectives). We also hold U.S. trademark registrations for EVORAKIDS &#174; , EVORAPRO &#174; , EVORAPLUS &#174; , 

&#160;

EVORAPET &#174; , TEDDY&#146;S PRIDE &#174; , STREPTOCOCCUS ORALIS KJ3 &#174; , STREPTOCOCCUS RATTUS JH145 &#174; , STREPTOCOCCUS UBERIS KJ2 &#174; , PROBIORA3 &#174; and ORAGENICS &#174; (oral care probiotic preparations). We hold a European Community trademark registration for PROBIORA3 &#174; . Finally, we have applications pending and/or registered for key oral care probiotics brand marks in an additional 12 countries. 

We also have rights to use other names essential to our business. Federally registered trademarks have a perpetual life, as long as they are maintained and renewed on a timely basis and used properly as trademarks, subject to the rights of third parties to seek cancellation of the trademarks if they claim priority or confusion of usage. We regard our trademarks and other proprietary rights as valuable assets and believe they have significant value in marketing our products. 

Protection of Trade Secrets 

We attempt to protect our trade secrets, including the processes, concepts, ideas and documentation associated with our technologies, through the use of confidentiality agreements and non-competition agreements with our current employees and with other parties to whom we have divulged such trade secrets. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or that other third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and other intellectual property. If our employees or other parties breach our confidentiality agreements and non-competition agreements or if these agreements are not sufficient to protect our technology or are found to be unenforceable, our competitors could acquire and use information that we consider to be our trade secrets and we may not be able to compete effectively. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, technical and manufacturing resources than we have and we may not be profitable if our competitors are also able to take advantage of our trade secrets. 

We may find it necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our patent rights, to protect our intellectual property or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation is costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that our litigation expenses will not be significant in the future or that we will prevail in any such litigation. 

Government Grants 

We have received funding from government agencies under the National Science Foundation&#146;s and National Institute of Health&#146;s Small Business Innovation Research, or SBIR, grants. Eligibility of public companies to receive such grants is based on size and ownership criteria which are under review by the Small Business Administration, or SBA. As a result, our eligibility may change in the future and additional funding from this source may not be available. In addition, although we seek to protect the competitive benefits we derive from our patents, proprietary information, and other intellectual property, we may not have the right to prohibit the U.S. government from using certain technologies developed or acquired by us due to federal research grants or to prohibit third-party companies, including our competitors, from using those technologies in providing products and services to the U.S. government. The U.S. government could have the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we may develop under such grants. We may commercially exploit those government-funded technologies and may assert our intellectual property rights against other non-government users of technology developed by us, but we may not be successful in our efforts to do so. 

Research and Development Costs 

We have spent $8,803,033 and $3,065,053 on research and development of our technologies during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Approximately $5,000,000 of the 2015 research and development costs consisted of a one-time up front Technology Access Fee we paid to Intrexon in connection with the Oral Mucositis ECC. 

Employees 

We have fifteen full-time employees and one part-time employee. We enjoy good relations with our employees. None of our employees are a member of any labor union, and we are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement. 

Available Information 

Our website is www.oragenics.com. On our website we make available at no cost our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish them to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). The information contained on our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. 

&#160;

