 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Business Overview 

We are one of the largest providers of highly engineered thermal solutions for process industries. For over 60 years, we have served a diverse base of thousands of customers around the world in attractive and growing markets, including energy, chemical processing and power generation. We are a global leader and one of the few thermal solutions providers with a global footprint and a full suite of products (heating cables, tubing bundles and control systems) and services (design optimization, engineering, installation and maintenance services) required to deliver comprehensive solutions to complex projects. We serve our customers locally through a global network of sales and service professionals and distributors in more than 30 countries and through our four manufacturing facilities on three continents. These global capabilities and longstanding relationships with some of the largest multinational energy, chemical processing, power and engineering, procurement and construction, or "EPC," companies in the world have enabled us to diversify our revenue streams and opportunistically access high growth markets worldwide. For fiscal 2016 , approximately 55% &#32;of our revenues were generated outside of the United States. Over the last fifteen months we have acquired three companies, Unitemp Close Corporation ("Unitemp"), Sumac Fabrication Co. Ltd. ("Sumac") and Industrial Process Insulators, Inc. ("IPI"), that offer complementary products and services to our core thermal solution offerings. We are actively pursuing strategic opportunities to expand our product and service offerings through strategic acquisitions. 

Our thermal solutions, also referred to as heat tracing, provide an external heat source to pipes, vessels and instruments for the purposes of freeze protection, temperature and flow maintenance, environmental monitoring, and surface snow and ice melting. Customers typically purchase our products when constructing a new facility, which we refer to as Greenfield projects, or when performing maintenance, repair and operations on a facility's existing heat-traced pipes or upgrading or expanding a current facility, which we refer to collectively as "MRO/UE." A large processing facility may require our thermal solutions for a majority of its pipes, with the largest facilities containing hundreds of thousands of feet of heat-tracing cable and thousands of control points. Our products are low in cost relative to the total cost of a typical processing facility, but critical to the safe and profitable operation of the facility. These facilities are often complex, with numerous classified areas that are inherently hazardous and where product safety concerns are paramount. We believe that our strong brand and established reputation for safety, reliability and customer service are critical contributors to our customers' purchasing decisions. 

Our customers' need for MRO/UE solutions provides us with an attractive recurring revenue stream. Customers typically use the incumbent heat tracing provider for MRO/UE projects to avoid complications and compatibility problems associated with switching providers. We typically begin to realize meaningful MRO/UE revenue from new Greenfield installations one to three years after completion of the project as customers begin to remove and replace our products during routine and preventative maintenance on in-line mechanical equipment, such as pipes and valves. As a result, our growth has been driven by new facility construction, as well as by servicing our continually growing base of solutions installed around the world, which we refer to as our installed base. Approximately 66% &#32;of our revenues for fiscal 2016 &#32;were derived from such MRO/UE activities. 

In April 2015, we expanded our product offerings beyond our core heat tracing products and now offer temporary electrical power distribution products through our Sumac product line. Sumac products are sold in many of the same markets as our thermal solution offerings, which we believe will provide an attractive complementary offering to our customers that engage in new facility construction as well as maintenance, turnaround and expansion activities. 

Our corporate offices are located at 100 Thermon Drive, San Marcos, TX 78666. Our telephone number is (512) 396-5801. Our website address is www.thermon.com. &#32;Copies of the charters of the committees of our board of directors, our code of business conduct and ethics and our corporate governance guidelines are available on our Investor Relations website located at &#32;http://ir.thermon.com . All reports that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Current Reports on Form 8-K, can be obtained free of charge from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov &#32;or through our Investor Relations website. In addition, all reports filed with the SEC may be read 

and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549-1090. Information regarding the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. None of the information on our website or any other website identified herein is incorporated by reference in this annual report and should not be considered a part of this annual report. 

Company History 

Thermon Manufacturing Company, historically our principal operating subsidiary, was founded as a partnership in October 1954 and later incorporated in Texas in 1960. At that time, our primary product was a thermally conductive heat transfer compound invented by our founder, Richard Burdick. Under Mr. Burdick's leadership, we experienced steady growth by diversifying our products and expanding our geographic reach. Mr. Burdick and his family maintained a controlling interest in us until August 2007, when the controlling interest was sold to an affiliate of the Audax Group private equity firm. During Audax's tenure as our majority owner, we positioned ourselves to take advantage of rising demand in the energy end market and secured significant capital projects. 

On April 30, 2010, an investor group led by entities affiliated with CHS Capital LLC and two other private equity firms, which we refer to collectively as our former private equity sponsors, acquired Audax's controlling interest in us. The acquisition and related transaction expenses were financed through the issuance of our senior secured notes and an equity investment by our private equity sponsors and certain members of our current and former management team. As used in this annual report, the "CHS Transactions" refer collectively to such acquisition, the equity investment in us by CHS, our other former private equity sponsors and certain members of our management team and related financing transactions. 

In May 2011, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock (or "IPO"), and our common stock became listed on The New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "THR." Our former private equity sponsors sold shares of our common stock in both the IPO and a secondary public offering in September 2012. As of March 31, 2013, our former private equity sponsors had sold or otherwise disposed of all of their shares of common stock in the Company. 

Over the last decade, our management team has focused on significant organic growth opportunities, particularly in high growth markets such as the Canadian oil sands region, the U.S. gulf coast, the Middle East and Russia. Over the last 15 months, we began executing on a strategy to grow our Company through the acquisition of businesses in the thermal solutions industry or businesses that provide complementary products and solutions for the markets and customers we serve. On March 2, 2015, we acquired substantially all of the operating assets and assumed certain operating liabilities of Unitemp located in Cape Town, South Africa in a $3.9 million cash transaction. Unitemp, formerly a distributor of Thermon's thermal solutions in South Africa, offers heating, sensing, portable instruments, monitoring and control solutions to industrial customers throughout Sub-Saharan Africa. On April 1, 2015, we acquired a 75% controlling interest in the business previously operated by Sumac Fabrication Company Limited ("Sumac") for approximately $11.0 million in cash and up to $5.9 million of potential additional contingent cash consideration. Based on the operating results of fiscal 2016, we expect to pay $5.8 million in contingent consideration to the sellers of the Sumac business. Sumac is based in Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada and designs and manufactures temporary electrical power distribution equipment that is used in hazardous-location and general purpose areas within industrial facilities. On July 31, 2015, we acquired 100% of the capital stock of IPI, an insulation contractor located in Port Neches, Texas serving the U.S. refining, petrochemical, power and energy, marine and pulp and paper industries, in a $21.8 million cash transaction. IPI has a significant presence in the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast region. 

Industry Overview 

Alvarez &#38; Marsal Private Equity Performance Improvement Group, LLC, or "A&#38;M," estimated that the market for industrial electric heat tracing design and parts is approximately $1.5 billion in annual revenues in 2015. A&#38;M also estimates that the electric heat tracing market is increasing its share of the overall heat tracing market as end users appear to continue to favor electric heat tracing solutions over steam heat tracing solutions for most new installations. When revenues for steam heat tracing parts are included, A&#38;M estimated the overall addressable market for heat tracing design and parts to be approximately $2.8 billion in annual revenues in 2015. The industrial electric heat tracing industry is fragmented and consists of more than 30 companies that typically only serve discrete local markets with manufactured products and provide a limited service offering. Heat tracing providers differentiate themselves through the quality and reputation of their products, the length and quality of their customer relationships and their ability to provide comprehensive solutions. Large multinational companies drive the majority of spending for the types of major industrial facilities that require heat tracing, and we believe that they prefer providers who have a global footprint and a comprehensive suite of products and services. We believe we are one of only a few companies that meet these criteria. 

The major end markets that drive demand for heat tracing include energy, chemical processing and power generation. We believe that there are attractive near-to medium-term trends in each of these end markets. In addition, we believe that the growth rate of the electric heat tracing market is accelerating as end-users continue to favor electric-based heat tracing solutions over steam-based heat tracing solutions for most new installations. 

&#183; 

Energy. Heat tracing is used to facilitate the processing, transportation and freeze protection of energy products in both upstream and downstream oil and gas applications. From fiscal 2012-2015, we experienced significant growth in the upstream oil and gas market, with our growth heavily concentrated in the Canadian oil sands region. Due to the approximate 65% decline in crude oil prices over the last two years, we have seen suspensions or delays in capital spending within the upstream oil and gas sector, and in particular in the Canadian oil sands region, which has been partially offset by an increase in spending in the downstream oil and gas sector. A&#38;M estimated in 2015 that the oil and gas end market accounted for approximately 57% of the total market for electric heat tracing in 2015, or approximately $830 million. 

&#183; 

Chemical Processing. Heat tracing is required for temperature maintenance and freeze protection in a variety of chemical processing applications. Factors that may impact heat tracing demand in chemicals end markets include the rapid industrialization of the developing world, a shift in base chemical processing operations to low-cost feedstock regions, a transition of Western chemical processing activities from commodity products to specialty products and environmental compliance. A&#38;M estimated in 2015 that the chemicals end market (including petrochemical) accounted for approximately 22% of the total market for electric heat tracing in 2015, or approximately $310 million. 

&#183; 

Power Generation. Heat tracing is required in high-temperature processes, freeze protection and environmental regulation compliance in coal and gas facilities and for safety injection systems in nuclear facilities. An important driver of demand for heat tracing solutions for power generation is increasing demand for electricity worldwide. A&#38;M estimated in 2015 that the power generation end market accounted for approximately 11% of the total market for electric heat tracing in 2015, or approximately $170 million. In 2015, the U.S. Energy Information Administration, or "EIA," projects that global net electricity generation will increase 24% between 2013 and 2040. We believe capital spending on new and existing power generation infrastructure will be required to meet this demand. 

&#183; 

Continuing selection of electric-based heat tracing solutions over steam-based solutions. Beginning in the 1960s, electric heat tracing products entered the market as an alternative to steam heat tracing products. While steam-based products are still used today for heavy oil, chemical and processing applications, electric-based products generally offer greater cost savings and operating efficiencies. As a consequence, Greenfield projects commissioned in recent years are increasingly designed to incorporate electric heat tracing. 

Segments 

In connection with acquisitions made during fiscal 2016, the Company reviewed its determination of segments. Previously, we aggregated geographic markets into one reportable segment. Based on our review, we revised our segment reporting to four reportable segments based on four geographic countries or regions: United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. All prior period results have been revised to conform to the current year presentation. Within our four reportable segments, our primary products and services are focused on thermal solutions primarily related to the electrical heat tracing industry. Each of our reportable segments serves a similar class of customers including large EPC companies, international and regional oil and gas companies, commercial sub-contractors, electrical component distributors and direct sales to existing plant or industrial applications. Profitability within our segments is measured by operating income. Profitability can vary in each of our reportable segments based on the competitive environment within the region, the level of corporate overhead, such as the salaries of our senior executives, and the level of research and development and marketing activities in the region, as well as the mix of products and services. Over the last 15 months, we acquired Unitemp, IPI and Sumac. Both Unitemp and IPI offer thermal solutions and have been included in our Europe and United States reportable segments, respectively. Sumac provides temporary power products that differ from our core thermal solutions business. As operating results from Sumac comprise less than 10% of our total sales and operating income, Sumac has been aggregated in our Canada segment. See Note 16, "Segment Information" for financial data relating to our four reportable segments. 

Products and Services 

Our products include a wide range of electric heat tracing cables, steam tracing components, tubing bundles, and instrument and control products, as well as complementary product lines acquired in recent acquisitions including: 

&#8226; 

self-regulating and power limiting heating cables, which automatically increase or decrease heat output as pipe temperature changes as well as constant wattage heating cables; 

&#8226; 

mineral insulated, or "MI," cable, which is a high performance heat tracing cable for generating high temperatures that is typically used in harsh environments; 

&#8226; 

skin effect trace heater, which can heat lines in excess of 15 miles long from a single power point; 

&#8226; 

heat traced tube bundles for environmental gas sampling systems; 

&#8226; 

heat transfer compounds and steam tracers for comprehensive steam tracing solutions; 

&#8226; 

control and monitoring systems for electric tracing of pipes, tanks, hoppers and instrument sampling systems; 

&#8226; 

turnkey solutions that provide customers with complete solutions for heat tracing, including design, optimization, installation and ongoing maintenance; 

&#8226; 

products and services from the Unitemp acquisition, which include heating, sensing, monitoring and controlling tools; and 

&#8226; 

products from the Sumac acquisition, which include equipment for temporary electric power distribution and lighting products used in energy infrastructure construction projects and maintenance/turnaround projects. 

Electric Heat Tracing Applications 

We manufacture critical components of an electric heat tracing system, including heating cables, control and monitoring systems and heating systems for tanks and hoppers. We customize these products to fit the specific design parameters for each client's installation. We offer various electric heating cables, including conductive polymer self-regulating heating cables, power limiting cables, constant wattage heating cables and MI high temperature heating cables. 

Self-regulating heating cables - Our self-regulating heating cables are flexible and engineered to automatically increase or decrease heat output as pipe or vessel temperature changes. BSX&#8482; self-regulating cables are designed to provide freeze protection or process temperature maintenance to metallic and non-metallic piping, vessels and equipment. HTSX&#8482; self-regulating heating cable is suitable for heat tracing applications involving crude oil and most chemicals. 

Power-limiting and constant watt heating cables - Power limiting and constant watt heating cables are flexible parallel resistance cables used to heat trace piping in lengths longer than 500 feet. Such intermediate lengths of pipe are commonly found in pipe racks that connect process units within a plant. These heaters allow longer lengths between power supply points than self-regulating cables. HPT cables offer a power limiting feature along with larger power bus wires to allow delivery of an increased heat output over that found with self-regulating cables. 

TEK&#8482; HTEK&#8482; and MIQ&#8482; cables - The TEK&#8482; and HTEK&#8482; series resistance, constant watt heating cables are used where circuit lengths exceed the limitations of parallel resistance heating cables. By using series constant watt heating cables, a single power supply point can energize circuit lengths up to 12,000 feet. MIQ&#8482; high performance mineral insulated heating cables are used for high temperature maintenance, high temperature exposure and/or high watt density applications that exceed the limitations of thermoplastic insulated cables. MIQ&#8482; cables are composed of a high nickel/chromium alloy sheath, which is well-suited for high temperature service and offers high resistance to stress corrosion in chloride, acid, salt and alkaline environments. 

ThermTrac TM &#32;cables &#32;- A ThermTrac skin effect system provides a cost-effective alternative to conventional resistance heat tracing on long pipelines by eliminating the need for an extensive power distribution system. A ThermTrac system is designed to heat a pipeline in excess of 15 miles long from a single power point. The versatility of the system makes it well-suited for temperature maintenance, freeze protection and heat-up applications. The system generates heat by the resistance of the electrical current flowing through both the conductor and the inner skin of a heat tube. 

Steam Heat Tracing 

In 1954, we began manufacturing heat transfer compounds that greatly improved the heat delivery of steam tracing systems. Today, in addition to the broad range of heat transfer compounds, we also offer steam tracers and tubing bundles that provide our customers with comprehensive steam tracing solutions. We manufacture our heat transfer compounds in various configurations so that they can be applied to different surfaces, which increases the heat transfer rate of steam or fluid tracers. 

Our heat transfer compounds create an efficient thermal connection between the heat tracing system and the process equipment. Through the elimination of air voids, heat is directed into the pipe wall primarily through conduction rather than convection and radiation. This requires fewer tracing pipes to maintain specified temperature requirements, substantially reducing operating and investment cost. Steam tracing offers the most cost effective solution for certain heavy oil and natural gas processing applications. We have also patented our SafeTrace&#174; steam tracing products for use in applications with stringent temperature requirements. 

Temperature Controls and Monitoring 

We supply a wide range of control and monitoring products, from simple mechanical thermostats to sophisticated microprocessor-based systems that control and monitor the status of electric heat tracing systems. We provide individual units for smaller projects, as well as multi-point controllers that can be integrated into and communicate with a plant's central data management and control system. 

We offer a variety of temperature control monitoring systems as part of our TraceNet&#8482; family of controllers. TraceNet&#8482; controllers allow the operator to assess operating control parameters and operating conditions throughout the heat tracing system network utilizing our TraceNet&#8482; control solutions. Our controllers can communicate with up to 4,096 controllers over 32 channels, allowing up to 15,000 heat trace circuits to be monitored within the same network. We actively seek to expand our TraceNet&#8482; product offerings to offer the customers the most efficient monitoring systems in the marketplace. 

Instrumentation 

We specialize in pre-insulated and heat-traced tubing bundles with accessories that offer a complete instrument heating system. Our complete range of products includes both electric- and steam-heated bundles containing various types of tubing (such as copper, stainless steel and polymer) to meet the needs of process and environmental applications. Such applications include transporting samples of gas or liquid in our customized, temperature-controlled tubing bundles to an instrument that typically performs an analysis for purposes of process management or ensuring compliance with internal requirements or applicable environmental laws and regulations. 

Hopper Heating 

The HT Hopper Heating Module is a self-contained heater designed for operation on surfaces prone to vibration. In cement plants and fossil fuel power facilities, hoppers facilitate the filtering of a facility's ash emissions. Hopper heaters maintain the walls of the hopper at a temperature above the dew point to prevent moisture from combining with ash, thus clogging the filtering equipment. We engineer each system based on the heating requirements of the specific application. The HT Hopper Heating Module has multiple flow paths for electrical current, which eliminates the burnout potential common with series wire-based designs. Protection of the heating element from vibration is accomplished with a cushion layer of insulation that also directs the flow of heat from the module to the surface being heated. The module provides mechanical protection during handling, installation and operation, and its low profile design helps facilitate installation. 

Turnkey Services 

We provide customers with complete turnkey solutions for their heat tracing needs. Turnkey services include project planning, product supply, engineering services, system integration, installation, commissioning and maintenance. Specialized, turnkey heat tracing services meet the needs of many of our industrial customers who have downsized and outsourced their non-core competencies and are requiring their vendor base to have multi-service and multi-site capabilities. 

Our turnkey business in the United States is based in Houston, Texas, Port Neches, Texas and Baton Rouge, Louisiana. During fiscal 2016, we worked on more than 345 turnkey projects, with the largest turnkey project accounting for approximately $3.5 million in revenue. Engineering and construction companies in the United States often subcontract their heat tracing projects to outside parties, including us, because of the field's highly specialized nature. 

In July 2015, we acquired IPI, an insulation contractor located in Port Neches, Texas. Prior to the acquisition, IPI was formerly our customer and a subcontractor to the company for 17 years. IPI enhances our turnkey product offerings and strengthens our presence in the Gulf Coast region, as IPI serves many of the same end-markets as those served by our core thermal solutions business. 

Design and Engineering Services 

We offer heat tracing design and engineering services during every stage of a project. Providing design services within the quote process is a core element of our business strategy. By delivering design drawings in conjunction with early project specifications, we can determine the customer's heat tracing requirements, which leads to subsequent sales of heat tracing products for that project. 

We are focused on providing comprehensive solutions to fulfill the heat tracing needs of our customers. As a manufacturer of a wide range of heat tracing products, we believe that we are well-positioned to evaluate and optimize a system for a customer without bias towards a particular product, and rely on more than 60 years of experience to craft the most appropriate heat tracing solution for a customer's specifications and needs. 

We provide design and engineering services to our customers through our full-time staff of engineers and technicians. Through the design and engineering process, our engineers and technicians located throughout the world provide our customers with design optimization studies, product selection assistance, computer-generated drawing packages and detailed wiring diagrams. 

Sumac Temporary Power Products 

In April 2015, we acquired a 75% controlling interest in the business previously operated by Sumac. Sumac's line of products and solutions are designed to provide a safe and efficient means of supplying temporary electrical power distribution and lighting at energy infrastructure facilities for new construction and during maintenance and turnaround projects at operating facilities. Sumac products include power distribution panels, master/slave sub-panels, power cords and lighting fixtures. A number of Sumac's products are engineered-to-order based on proprietary designs. Products are designed around the "plug and play" concept and also integrate unique safety features including arc flash protection for making and breaking connections under electrical load as well as ground fault protection on circuits. Certain products are certified to safely operate in hazardous areas such as live plant environments that process combustible chemicals and materials. Sumac's suite of products is designed to allow for quick reconfigurations of electrical power distribution panels to meet the changing needs of contractors as work moves from one phase to the next during construction and facility maintenance operations. This allows customers to save time and money. Sumac products are sold to end-users operating in many of the same markets as our core thermal solutions, including heavy industrial settings, oil and gas refining and upgrading, power generation plants, petrochemical production facilities and mining operations. We believe we will be able to leverage our existing global sales force to further expand the reach of Sumac's product offerings. 

Manufacturing and Operations 

We have four manufacturing facilities on three continents. We manufacture the products that generate a majority of our total sales at our principal facility in San Marcos, Texas including flexible heating cables, heat tracing compound and tubing bundles. Our facilities are highly automated, which reduces labor costs. Our facilities incorporate numerous manufacturing processes that utilize computer-controlled equipment and laser technology. We maintain a ready supply of spare parts and have on-site personnel trained to repair and perform preventative maintenance on our specialized equipment, reducing the likelihood of long term interruptions at our manufacturing facilities. Our manufacturing facilities are equipped to provide us with maximum flexibility to manufacture our products efficiently and with short lead times. This in turn allows for lower inventory levels and faster responses to customer demands. 

Our flexible heat cable products are manufactured in San Marcos, Texas. The manufacturing building has approximately 48,000 square feet of floor space, including offices. We currently estimate that the facility, when operating at full capacity, will support revenue levels up to $400 to $500 million. 

Our electronic cross-linking facility, which we refer to as our "ECLF." is also located at the San Marcos facility. Cross-linking enhances the thermal, chemical and electrical stability of our low-temperature self-regulating heater cables. By performing cross-linking in-house, we condense the overall manufacturing cycle by approximately six weeks. This enhances our ability to ensure a high level of product quality and to better control the production process. 

Our pre-insulated tubing products are manufactured in our facilities in San Marcos and the Netherlands. The majority of our pre-insulated tubing product is custom ordered and made to customers' specifications in a two-part process. The thermal insulation is first applied over the heating cable and process tubing, and a protective plastic outer jacket is extruded onto the bundle to protect the insulation. 

During fiscal 2016, we completed an expansion of our primary pre-insulated tubing product manufacturing plant located in San Marcos, Texas, which significantly increased our production capacity for our instrumentation tube-bundle product line. The total cost of the expanded facility, including the purchase of new capital equipment, was $3.5 million. 

Our MI cable manufacturing facility in Calgary, Canada gives us adequate capacity to service the demands of clients in the oil sands projects of Western Canada in a time efficient manner. The facility's strategic location has enabled us to expand our sale of MI cable, which is well-suited for high temperature applications and harsh, arctic environments, into a global business. 

Sumac's products are currently fabricated at a facility in Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. Sumac's customer base has primarily been in the oil sands region of Alberta, Canada, which is a remote location. We anticipate that future growth, outside of Alberta, Canada will most likely be serviced at our primary manufacturing facility in San Marcos, Texas. 

We maintain quality control testing standards in all of our manufacturing operations and perform various quality control checks on our products during the manufacturing process. We believe that our highly automated manufacturing process and multiple quality control checkpoints create high levels of operational efficiency. 

Purchasing Strategy- Our critical raw materials include polymers, graphite, copper and stainless steel. For most of these materials, we purchase from multiple suppliers in order to avoid any potential disruption of our manufacturing process. For a small number of raw material items that require specific quality specifications, we have single source supply arrangements. We manage the inherent supply risk through purchase contracts and the maintenance of &#32; increased safety stock levels at all times. We evaluate pricing and performance of all suppliers annually. For our low-volume custom-built electronic controller components, we select a single supplier based on past performance reliability and monitor the process closely as volumes are too low to divide this product over multiple suppliers. Our purchase specifications are usually based on industry or manufacturer standards. Testing of the raw materials is performed and documented by our suppliers and is reviewed by us at the time of receipt. 

Distribution - Our primary distribution centers are located in San Marcos, Texas, Calgary, Alberta and the Netherlands. Inventory is typically shipped directly from these distribution centers to customers, the construction site or our regional sales agents or distributors. Our sales agents may maintain "safety stocks" of core products to service the immediate MRO/UE requirements of customers who are time-sensitive and cannot wait for delivery from one of the central distribution centers. In the United States, a network of agents maintains safety stocks of core products. In Canada, customers are serviced from the central distribution center in Calgary. In Europe, customers are serviced from the central distribution center in the Netherlands. In Asia, safety stock of materials are kept in Yokohama, Japan; Seoul, Korea; Shanghai, China; Pune, India; and Melbourne, Australia. Safety stocks are also warehoused in Moscow, Russia, Mexico City, Mexico and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. We expect to utilize warehouses that have been added through the acquisition of Sumac, IPI and Unitemp in Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, Port Neches, Texas and Cape Town and Johannesburg, South Africa, respectively, to store inventory for sales to existing Sumac, IPI and Unitemp customers. 

In April 2015, we completed the expansion of our primary distribution center located in San Marcos, Texas at a total cost of $3.9 million including capital equipment. We anticipate the expansion will significantly increase our storage capacity, significantly reduce outside storage costs and consolidate warehouse operations for improved efficiencies. 

Customers 

We serve a broad base of large multinational customers, many of which we have served for more than 60 years. We have a diversified revenue mix with thousands of customers. None of our customers represented more than 10% of total revenues in fiscal 2016 . 

Sales and Marketing 

Our direct sales force, consisting of 147 employees, is focused on positioning us with major end-users and EPC companies during the development phase of Greenfield projects with the goal of providing reliable, cost-effective heat tracing 

solutions. We utilize a network of more than 100 independent sales agents and distributors in over 30 countries to provide local support to customer facilities for MRO/UE. We actively participate in the growth and development of the domestic and international heat tracing standards established in the countries in which we sell products. We believe that we have established credibility as a reliable provider of high quality heat tracing products. In addition, we believe that our registered trademarks in the United States and numerous additional brand names are recognized globally, giving us excellent brand recognition. 

Standards and Certifications -We continually test our products to demonstrate that they can withstand harsh operating environments. Our heating cable products and associated design practices are subjected to various tests, including heat output, thermal stability and long-term aging, with the goal of producing products capable of performing at or beyond the expectations of our customers. All products are further tested and certified by various approval agencies to verify compliance with applicable industry standards. 

We evaluate our products for electrical safety requirements, environmental assessments and market based assessments for the particular applications and harsh climates that Thermon services. Our products comply with national and international heat tracing industry standards such as ANSI/IEEE-515, ANSI/IEEE, 515.1 and ANSI/IEEE-844 in the United States, Canadian Standards Association 130.03 in Canada; and International Electrical Commission IECx 60079-30-1 and IECEx 60079-30-2 in international markets. We also hold many product certifications from local country approval agencies and registration bodies around the world. We actively monitor the introduction of new domestic or global standards and certifications, and pursue certifications relating to the electrical heat tracing industry. 

Competition 

The global industrial electric heat tracing industry is fragmented and consists of more than 30 companies, which typically only serve discrete local markets and provide a limited service offering. We believe that we are the second largest &#32; participant in the industrial electric heat tracing market and one of only a few solutions providers with a comprehensive suite of products and services, global capabilities and local on-site presence. Our most significant competitor is the Technical Solutions segment of Pentair plc (NYSE: PNR). 

Heat tracing providers differentiate themselves through value-added services, long-term customer relationship management and the ability to provide a full range of solutions. We differentiate ourselves from local providers by a global footprint, a full suite of products and services and a track record with some of the largest multinational energy, chemical processing, power and EPC companies in the world. In addition, we are almost entirely dedicated to providing thermal solutions and complementary products and services whereas some of our competitors' thermal solutions operations constitute only one of numerous operating segments. 

Intellectual Property and Technology 

The heat tracing industry, as well as the complementary markets where we intend to expand, are highly competitive and subject to the introduction of innovative techniques and services using new technologies. While we have patented some of our products and processes, we historically have not relied upon patents to protect our design or manufacturing processes or products, and our patents are not material to our operations or business. Instead, we rely significantly on maintaining the confidentiality of our trade secrets, manufacturing know-how and other proprietary rights and other information related to our operations. Accordingly, we require all employees to sign a nondisclosure agreement to protect our trade secrets, business strategy and other proprietary information. We have registered trademarks in the United States and abroad and over 40 recognized brand names. We also rely on a significant number of unregistered trademarks, primarily abroad, but also in the United States, in the day-to-day operation of our business. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development activities are focused on identifying new technologies to enhance our industrial heat tracing solutions through identifying opportunities to maximize product reliability and reduce the customer's total cost of ownership, which consists of capital expenses, maintenance costs and energy costs. Current product development initiatives include polymer research, the development of advanced medium voltage skin effect conductors, and continued advancement of integrated control and monitoring systems. Software development activities include advanced heat tracing network monitoring communication software and engineering design software initiatives. 

Employees 

As of March 31, 2016 , we employed approximately 1,021 persons on a full-time basis worldwide. We have never experienced any organized work stoppage or strike, however approximately 2% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

Governmental Regulation 

Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to complex United States and foreign laws governing, among others, anti-corruption matters, export controls, economic sanctions, antiboycott rules, currency exchange controls and transfer pricing rules. These laws are administered, among others, the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service, or the "IRS," Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, or "BIS," the Office of Antiboycott Compliance, or "OAC," and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or "OFAC," as well as the counterparts of these agencies in foreign countries. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. Despite our training and compliance programs, no assurances can be made that we will be found to be operating in full compliance with, or be able to detect every violation of, any such laws. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. 

Environmental Compliance 

Our operations and properties are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the emission of greenhouse gases, and workplace health and safety. Certain environmental laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, impose joint and several liability for cleanup costs, without regard to fault, on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment. In addition, we could become liable to third parties for damages resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous substances into the environment. Some of our sites are affected by soil and groundwater contamination relating to historical site operations, which could require us to incur expenses to investigate and remediate the contamination in compliance with environmental laws. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. A failure to obtain, maintain, and comply with these permit requirements could result in substantial penalties, including facility shutdowns. From time to time, we could be subject to requests for information, notices of violation, and/or investigations initiated by environmental regulatory agencies relating to our operations and properties. Violations of environmental and health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations, and facility shutdowns. Environmental and health and safety laws may change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we could incur costs for past, present, or future failure to comply with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, we could become subject to potential regulations concerning the emission of greenhouse gasses, and while the effect of such future regulations cannot be determined at this time, they could require us to incur substantial costs in order to achieve and maintain compliance. In the ordinary course of business, we may be held responsible for any environmental damages we may cause to our customers' premises. 

Seasonality 

For information on seasonality, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Seasonality," which is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1. 

Backlog 

For information on backlog, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations- Overview- Revenue," which is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1. 

