 Item 1. Description of Business 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Statements made in this Form 10-K that are not historical or current facts are "forward-looking statements" made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements often can be identified by the use of terms such as "may", "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "approximate" or "continue," or the negative thereof. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors for such statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Any forward-looking statements represent management's best judgment as to what may occur in the future. However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and important factors beyond our control that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from historical results of operations and events and those presently anticipated or projected. We disclaim any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statement or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.

Financial information contained in this report and in our financial statements is stated in United States dollars and are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. 

GENERAL 

Makkanotti Group Corp. (the &#147;Company&#148;) was incorporated in the State of Nevada on May 15, 2014. The Company was formed to engage in the business of manufacturing food paper bags in Nicosia, Cyprus.

Our product 

The main product of the Company&#146;s manufacturing process is a paper bag. Paper bags are generally used in all supermarkets, fruit kiosks, bakeries and cafe and other places and in everyday life. Grocery bags are ideal for carrying food products and are an environmentally friendly choice as they are made from recyclable materials. The Company on a development stage of business is planning to manufacture two types of paper bags, such as flat bottom paper bags and strung in the corner paper bags. Paper bags are used widely by children as tuck-shop bags or lunch bags, also in supermarkets for storing different kind of fruits and vegetables, in bakeries, caf&#233;, and restaurants for packing food. 

Equipment 

We have purchased one paper food bag-forming machine RUITAI KTPM-A for $6,000 from Chinese company &#147;Chinese Investment Services Company Limited&#148;. This model is user-friendly and simple in operating. The regular preventive maintenance of the machine will be fulfilling by specialist, who we are planning to hire in the future. Also in December 2015 we have purchased one printing machine for $2,278 from the same company &#147;Chinese Investment Services Company Limited&#148;. It let us to make exclusive paper bags with different images on them.

Marketing of paper bags 

Our sole officer and director will be responsible for marketing of our products. The Company is planning to contact marketing specialist for promotion. Currently we do not have any agreements with any marketing specialists. We intend to use marketing tools, such as web and newspaper advertisements, direct mailing, and phone calls to acquire potential customers. We believe that one of the most powerful aspects of online marketing is the ability to target our chosen group with a high degree of accuracy and cost effective way. 

Industry analysis 

Makkanotti Group Corp. is planning to expand its business in the nearest municipalities, such as Lakatamia and Strovolos in Cyprus. In any city we plan to expand our operations to there are many different supermarkets, fruit kiosks, sweets kiosks and bakeries that may be interested in cooperation with the Company. We offer high-quality and inexpensive product, which can satisfy any client requirements. Besides such kind of distribution network we plan to sign agreements with distributors of similar products. We are planning to offer a commission from sales to our potential partners. We also plan to have a special section on our website for potential partners with examples of our products and offers for wholesale clients and partners. 

Storage and delivery of paper bags 

The product produced by Makkanotti Group Corp. does not require any storage facilities as it will be manufactured directly for each order. The number of demonstration samples will be kept is insignificant and does not require any special premises for storage. Our machines will be located at our leased premise in Nicosia, Cyprus. Term of manufacturing will depend on customer&#146;s order.

Contracts and negotiation with customers 

To the date the Company has entered into Agreement for Sale of Goods with &#147;Epidorpio Confectionery&#148; Bakery, who has agreed to buy our paper bags for packing its flour products and Agreement for Sale of Goods with &#147;A&#38;G KOKKINOU LTD.&#148;. The Company is also planning to contact G.I. MONADIKON LTD www.monadikon.com, Qboo Bakehouse and The Xechoron Trading Company LTD in regard of future cooperation. 

Insurance 

We do not maintain any insurance and do not intend to maintain insurance in the future. Because we do not have any insurance, if we are made a party to a products liability action, we may not have sufficient funds to defend the litigation. If that occurs a judgment could be rendered against us that could cause us to cease operations.

Employees 

We are in a development stage and currently have no employees, other than our sole officer and director. 

Office 

Our office located at Larnakos Avenue, 73, ap. 402, Nicosia, Cyprus 1046. Our phone number is +1 (407) 720-5503.

Government Regulation 

We will be required to comply with all regulations, rules and directives of governmental authorities and agencies applicable to our business in any jurisdiction which we would conduct activities. We do not believe that regulation will have a material impact on the way we conduct our business.

