 Item 1 Business 

Synalloy Corporation, a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 1958 as the successor to a chemical manufacturing business founded in 1945. Its charter is perpetual. The name was changed on July 31, 1967 from Blackman Uhler Industries, Inc. On June 3, 1988, the state of incorporation was changed from South Carolina to Delaware. The Company's executive office is located at 4510 Cox Road, Suite 201, Richmond, Virginia 23060 with an additional corporate and shared services office at 775 Spartan Boulevard, Suite 102, Spartanburg, South Carolina 29301. Unless indicated otherwise, the terms "Company," "we" "us," and "our" refer to Synalloy Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

The Company's business is divided into two reportable operating segments, the Metals Segment and the Specialty Chemicals Segment. The Metals Segment operates as three reporting units including Bristol Metals, LLC ("BRISMET"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Synalloy Metals, Inc., Palmer of Texas Tanks, Inc. ("Palmer") and Specialty Pipe &#38; Tube, Inc. ("Specialty"). BRISMET manufactures stainless steel and other alloy pipe. Palmer manufactures liquid storage solutions and separation equipment, and Specialty is a master distributor of seamless carbon pipe and tube. The Metals Segment's markets include the chemical, petrochemical, pulp and paper, mining, power generation (including nuclear), water and waste water treatment, liquid natural gas ("LNG"), brewery, food processing, petroleum, pharmaceutical and other industries. The Specialty Chemicals Segment operates as one reporting unit which includes Manufacturers Chemicals, LLC ("MC"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Manufacturers Soap and Chemical Company ("MS&#38;C"), and CRI Tolling, LLC ("CRI Tolling"). The Specialty Chemicals Segment produces specialty chemicals for the chemical, paper, metals, mining, agricultural, fiber, paint, textile, automotive, petroleum, cosmetics, mattress, furniture, janitorial and other industries. MC manufactures lubricants, surfactants, defoamers, reaction intermediaries and sulfated fats and oils. CRI Tolling provides chemical tolling manufacturing resources to global and regional chemical companies and contracts with other chemical companies to manufacture certain, pre-defined products. 

General 

Metals Segment &#8211; &#32;This segment is comprised of three wholly-owned subsidiaries: Synalloy Metals, Inc., which owns 100 percent of BRISMET, located in Bristol, Tennessee; Palmer, located in Andrews, Texas; and Specialty, located in Mineral Ridge, Ohio and Houston, Texas. 

BRISMET manufactures welded pipe, primarily from stainless steel, but also from other corrosion-resistant metals. Pipe is produced in sizes from one-half inch to 120 inches in diameter and wall thickness up to one and one-half inches. Eighteen-inch and smaller diameter pipe is made on equipment that forms and welds the pipe in a continuous process. Pipe larger than 18 inches in diameter is formed on presses or rolls and welded on batch welding equipment. Pipe is normally produced in standard 20-foot lengths. However, BRISMET has unusual capabilities in the production of long length pipe without circumferential welds. This can reduce the installation cost for the customer. Lengths up to 60 feet can be produced in sizes up to 18 inches in diameter. In larger sizes BRISMET has a unique ability among domestic producers to make 48-foot lengths in diameters up to 36 inches. Over the past four years, BRISMET has made substantial capital improvements, installing an energy efficient furnace to anneal pipe quicker while minimizing natural gas usage; system improvements in pickling to maintain the proper chemical composition of the pickling 

acid; and converting the former Bristol Fabrication facility into a heavy wall welded pipe production shop by adding a 4,000 ton press along with all necessary ancillary processes. 

Palmer is an International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") 9001 certified manufacturer of fiberglass and steel storage tanks for the oil and gas, waste water treatment and municipal water industries. Located in Andrews, Texas, Palmer is ideally located in the heart of a significant oil and gas production territory. Palmer produces made-to-order fiberglass tanks, utilizing a variety of custom mandrels and application specific materials. Its fiberglass tanks range from two feet to 30 feet in diameter at various heights. The majority of these tanks are used for oil field waste water capture and is an integral part of the environmental regulatory compliance of the drilling process. Each fiberglass tank is manufactured to American Petroleum Institute Q1 standards to ensure product quality. Palmer's steel storage tank facility enables efficient, environmentally compliant production with designed-in expansion capability to support future growth. Finished steel tanks range in size from 50 to 10,000 barrels and are used to store extracted oil. During 2014, Palmer obtained all of the necessary certifications to produce certified pressure vessels. These certifications allow Palmer to sell all of the separator and storage equipment needed at a well site. 

Specialty is a leading master distributor of hot finish, seamless, carbon steel pipe and tubing, with an emphasis on large outside diameters and exceptionally heavy wall thickness. Specialty's products are primarily used for mechanical and high pressure applications in the oil and gas, capital goods manufacturing, heavy industrial, construction equipment, paper and chemical industries. Operating from two facilities located in Mineral Ridge, Ohio and Houston, Texas, Specialty is well-positioned to serve the major industrial and energy regions and successfully reach other target markets across the United States. Specialty performs value-added processing on approximately 80 percent of products shipped, which would include cutting to length, heat treatment, testing, boring and end finishing and typically processes and ships orders in 24 hours or less. Based upon its short lead times, Specialty plays a critical role in the supply chain, supplying long lead-time items to markets that demand fast deliveries, custom lengths and reliable execution of orders. 

In order to establish stronger business relationships, the Metals Segment uses only a few raw material suppliers. Seven suppliers furnish about 78 percent of total dollar purchases of raw materials, with one supplier furnishing 34 percent of material purchases. However, the Company does not believe that the loss of this supplier would have a materially adverse effect on the Company as raw materials are readily available from a number of different sources, and the Company anticipates no difficulties in fulfilling its requirements. 

Specialty Chemicals Segment &#8211; &#32;This segment consists of the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary MS&#38;C. MS&#38;C owns 100 percent of the membership interests of MC, which has a production facility in Cleveland, Tennessee and a warehouse in Dalton, Georgia. This segment also includes CRI Tolling which is located in Fountain Inn, South Carolina. MC and CRI Tolling are aggregated as one reporting unit and comprise the Specialty Chemicals Segment. Both facilities are fully licensed for chemical manufacture. MC manufactures lubricants, surfactants, defoamers, reaction intermediaries and sulfated fats and oils. CRI Tolling provides chemical tolling manufacturing resources to global and regional companies and contracts with other chemical companies to manufacture certain pre-defined products. 

MC produces over 1,100 specialty formulations and intermediates for use in a wide variety of applications and industries. MC's primary product lines focus on the areas of defoamers, surfactants and lubricating agents. Over 20 years ago, MC began diversifying its marketing efforts and expanding beyond traditional textile chemical markets. These three fundamental product lines find their way into a large number of manufacturing businesses. Over the years, the customer list has grown to include end users and chemical companies that supply paper, metal working, surface coatings, water treatment, paint, mining and janitorial applications. MC's capabilities also include the sulfation of fats and oils. These products are used in a wide variety of applications and represent a renewable resource, animal and vegetable derivatives, as alternatives to more expensive and non-renewable petroleum derivatives. At its Dalton, Georgia warehouse, MC stores and ships chemicals and specialty chemicals manufactured at MC's Cleveland, Tennessee plant to the carpet and rug market. 

MC's strategy has been to focus on industries and markets that have good prospects for sustainability in the U.S. in light of global trends. MC's marketing strategy relies on sales to end users through its own sales force, but it also sells chemical intermediates to other chemical companies and distributors. It also has close working relationships with a significant number of major chemical companies that outsource their production for regional manufacture and distribution to companies like MC. MC has been ISO registered since 1995. 

CRI Tolling is located in Fountain Inn, South Carolina and was acquired by the Company in 2013. CRI Tolling had underutilized manufacturing capacity which allowed the Specialty Chemicals Segment to expand production from MC's Cleveland, Tennessee facility to further penetrate existing markets, as well as develop new ones, including those in the energy industry, and provides redundant production capabilities for key products. The Company invested approximately $3,500,000 in equipment at CRI Tolling during 2014. The new equipment provided CRI Tolling with production capabilities similar to those currently in place at MC's facility and increased the production capacity of the Specialty Chemicals Segment by 60 percent. 

The Specialty Chemicals Segment maintains two laboratories for applied research and quality control which are staffed by eight employees. 

Most raw materials used by the segment are generally available from numerous independent suppliers and almost 45 percent of total purchases are from its top eight suppliers. While some raw material needs are met by a sole supplier or only a few suppliers, the Company anticipates no difficulties in fulfilling its raw material requirements. 

Please see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, for financial information about the Company's segments. 

Sales and Distribution 

Metals Segment &#8211; &#32;The Metals Segment utilizes separate sales organizations for its different product groups. Stainless steel pipe is sold nationwide under the BRISMET trade name through authorized stocking distributors at warehouse locations throughout the country. In addition, large quantity orders are shipped directly from BRISMET's plant to end-user customers. Producing sales and providing service to the distributors and end-user customers are BRISMET's President, two outside sales employees, seven independent manufacturers' representatives and nine inside sales employees. 

Palmer does not employ a dedicated external sales and marketing resource. However, it employs three inside sales professionals that manage the relationships with past customers to identify and secure new sales. Additionally, the Metals Segment President assists in account relationship management with large customers. Customer feedback and in-field experience generate product enhancements and new product development. 

Approximately 80 percent of Specialty's pipe and tube sales are to North American pipe and tube distributors with the remainder comprised of sales to end use customers. In addition to Specialty's President, Specialty utilizes two manufacturing representatives and 8 inside sales employees, whom are located at both locations, to obtain sales orders and service its customers. 

The Metals Segment had one domestic customer that accounted for approximately 14 percent of the segment's revenues in 2015 with a different customer representing approximately ten percent of revenues in 2013. There were no customers representing more than ten percent of the Metals Segment's revenues for 2014. 

Specialty Chemicals Segment &#8211; &#32;Specialty chemicals are sold directly to various industries nationwide by five full-time outside sales employees and 13 manufacturers' representatives. The Specialty Chemicals Segment had one customer that accounted for approximately 31 percent of the segment's revenues in 2015 and 2014 with a different domestic customer representing 40 percent in 2013. The change in customers resulted from the 2013 customer selling two of the three product lines which use our products to another company in early 2014. The Specialty Chemicals Segment successfully retained the acquiring customer's business. This new customer is a large global company, and the purchases by this customer are derived from two different business units that operate autonomously from each other. Even so, loss of this customer's revenues would have a material adverse effect on both the Specialty Chemicals Segment and the Company. 

Competition 

Metals Segment &#8211; &#32;Welded stainless steel pipe is the largest sales volume product of the Metals Segment. Although information is not publicly available regarding the sales of most other producers of this product, management believes that the Company is one of the largest domestic producers of such pipe. This commodity product is highly competitive with nine known domestic producers, including the Company, and imports from many different countries. 

Due to the size of the tanks produced and shipped to its customers, the majority of Palmer's products are sold within a 300 mile radius from its plant in Andrews, Texas. There are currently 14 tank producers, with similar capabilities, servicing that same area. 

Specialty is a leader in the specialized products segment of the pipe and tube market by offering an industry-leading in-stock inventory of a broad range of high quality products, including specialized products with limited availability. Specialty's dual branches have both common and regional-specific products and capabilities. There are four known significant pipe and tube distributors with similar capabilities to Specialty. 

Specialty Chemicals Segment &#8211; &#32;The Company is the sole producer of certain specialty chemicals manufactured for other companies under processing agreements and also produces proprietary specialty chemicals. The Company's sales of specialty products are insignificant compared to the overall market for specialty chemicals. The market for most of the products is highly competitive and many competitors have substantially greater resources than does the Company. 

Mergers, Acquisitions and Dispositions 

The Company is committed to a long-term strategy of (a) reinvesting capital in our current business segments to foster their organic growth, (b) disposing of underperforming business segments with negative projected cash flows and (c) completing acquisitions that expand our current business segments or establish new manufacturing platforms. Targeted acquisitions are priced to be economically feasible and focus on achieving positive long-term benefits. These acquisitions may be paid for in the form of cash, stock, debt or a combination thereof. The amount and type of consideration and deal charges paid could have a short-term dilutive effect on the Company's earnings per share. However, such transactions are anticipated to provide long-term economic benefit to the Company. 

On November 21, 2014, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with The Davidson Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Davidson"), to purchase all of the issued and outstanding stock of Specialty. Established in 1964 with distribution centers in Mineral Ridge, Ohio and Houston, Texas, Specialty is a master distributor of seamless carbon pipe and tube, with a focus on heavy wall, large diameter products. The purchase price for the all-cash acquisition was $31,500,000. Davidson had the potential to receive earn-out payments up to a total of $5,000,000 if Specialty achieved targeted sales revenue over a two-year period following closing. Sales revenues since the acquisition have not reached nor are expected to reach minimum earn-out levels. Therefore, Davidson should not receive any earn-out payments. The purchase price for the acquisition was funded through a combination of cash on hand, a new term loan with the Company's bank and an increase to the Company's current credit facility. The financial results for Specialty are reported as a part of the Company's Metals Segment. 

On August 29, 2014, the Company completed the sale of all of the issued and outstanding membership interests of its wholly owned subsidiary, Ram-Fab, LLC, a South Carolina limited liability company ("Ram-Fab"), to a subsidiary of Primoris Services Corporation. The transaction was valued at less than $10 million, which consideration included cash at closing, Synalloy's ability to receive potential future earn-out payment(s) and the retention of specified Ram-Fab current assets. The Company did not receive any earn-out payments due to the profitability realized by Primoris on the job that was in process at the time of sale. The Company realized a one-time charge in the third quarter of 2014 of $1,996,000 for costs associated with the sale plus a $947,000 charge to write off the Company's investment in Ram-Fab. These charges, along with all non-recurring revenues and expenses associated with Ram-Fab are included in the respective consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations. Ram-Fab was reported as a part of the Metals Segment. 

On June 27, 2014, the Company completed the planned closure of the Bristol Fabrication unit of Synalloy Fabrication, LLC ("Bristol Fab"). Bristol Fab's collective bargaining agreement with the United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of the United States and Canada Local Union No. 538 (the "Union") expired on February 15, 2014. After lengthy negotiations with the Union, Bristol Fab was unable to reach an agreement. Also, upon closure of the operation, the Company was legally obligated to pay a withdrawal liability to the Union's pension fund of over $1.9 million. The Company realized charges in the fourth quarter of 2015 and in the second quarter of 2014 of $1,902,000 and $6,988,000, respectively, for costs associated with the closure of Bristol Fab. These costs, along with all non-recurring revenues and expenses associated with Bristol Fab, are included in the respective consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations. 

In August, 2013, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary CRI Tolling, completed the purchase of the business assets of Color Resources, LLC (&#8220;CRI&#8221;) and the building and land located in Fountain Inn, South Carolina where CRI was the sole tenant (the &#8220;CRI Facility&#8221;). CRI Tolling, a South Carolina limited liability company and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, continued CRI&#8217;s business as that of a toll manufacturer that provides outside manufacturing resources to global and regional chemical companies. On August 9, 2013, Synalloy purchased the CRI Facility for a total purchase price of $3,450,000. On August 26, 2013, the Company purchased certain assets and assumed certain operating liabilities of CRI through CRI Tolling for a total purchase price of $1,100,000. The assets purchased from CRI included accounts receivable, inventory, certain other assets, and equipment, net of assumed payables. The Company used the acquisition of CRI and the CRI Facility to expand its production capacity from its Cleveland, Tennessee facility to further penetrate existing markets, as well as develop new ones, including those in the energy industry. CRI Tolling operates as a division of Synalloy&#8217;s Specialty Chemicals Segment, which includes MC. The Company viewed both the building and operating assets of CRI together as one business, capable of providing a return to ownership by expanding the segment's production capacity. 

Environmental Matters 

Environmental expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations and do not contribute to future revenue generation are expensed. Liabilities are recorded when environmental assessments and/or cleanups are probable and the costs of these assessments and/or cleanups can be reasonably estimated. Changes to laws and environmental issues, including climate change, are made or proposed with some frequency and some of the proposals, if adopted, might directly or indirectly result in a material reduction in the operating results of one or more of our operating units. We are presently unable to foresee the future well enough to quantify such risks. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, for further discussion. 

Research and Development Activities 

The Company spent approximately $548,000 in 2015, $531,000 in 2014 and $558,000 in 2013 on research and development activities that were expensed in its Specialty Chemicals Segment. Five individuals, all of whom are graduate chemists, are engaged primarily in research and development of new products and processes, the improvement of existing products and processes, and the development of new applications for existing products. 

Seasonal Nature of the Business 

With the exception of Palmer and Specialty's Houston location, which primarily serves the oil and gas industry, the Company&#8217;s businesses and products are generally not subject to any seasonal impact that results in significant variations in revenues from one quarter to another. Fourth quarter revenue and profit for Palmer and Specialty Houston can be as much as 25 percent below the other three quarters due to vacation schedules for customer field crews working at the drill sites. 

Backlogs 

The Specialty Chemicals Segment operates primarily on the basis of delivering products soon after orders are received. Accordingly, backlogs are not a factor in this business. The same applies to commodity pipe sales in the Metals Segment. However, backlogs are important in the Metals Segment's steel and fiberglass tank operations since tanks are produced only after orders are received. Its backlog of open orders were $9,964,000 and $12,229,000 at the end of 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Employee Relations 

At December 31, 2015, the Company had 411 employees. The Company considers relations with employees to be satisfactory. The number of employees of the Company represented by unions, located at the Bristol, Tennessee and Mineral Ridge, Ohio facilities, is 145, or 35 percent of the Company's employees. They are represented by two locals affiliated with the United Steelworkers. Collective bargaining contracts for the Steelworkers will expire in June 2017 and July 2019. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

Information about revenues derived from domestic and foreign customers is set forth in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Available information 

The Company electronically files with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") its annual reports on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, its periodic reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"), and proxy materials pursuant to Section 14 of the 1934 Act. The SEC maintains a site on the Internet, www.sec.gov , which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The Company also makes its filings available, free of charge, through its Web site, www.synalloy.com , as soon as reasonably practical after the electronic filing of such material with the SEC. The information on the Company's Web site is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other filing the Company makes with the SEC. 

