 ITEM 1 &#8211; DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

Business Development 

Dynamic Gold Corp. (&#8220;Dynamic&#8221;) was incorporated in the State of Nevada on January 21, 2004. Our principal offices are located at Suite 1610, 675 West Hastings Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, V6B 1N2. Our telephone number is (604) 681-3131.

Dynamic has not had any bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceeding since incorporation.

There have been no material reclassifications, mergers, consolidations or purchases or sales of any significant amount of assets not in the ordinary course of business since the date of incorporation.

Please note that throughout this Annual Report, and unless otherwise noted, the words &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;our&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221;, the &#8220;Company&#8221; or &#8220;Dynamic&#8221;, refer to Dynamic Gold Corp.

Business of Issuer 

We are an exploration stage company and have not yet generated or realized any revenues from our business operations.

On January 20, 2008, the Company allowed its interest in the Sobeski Lake Gold Property Claims to expire. The Sobeski Lake Gold property consisted of three mineral claims located in the Red Lake Mining District, in the province of Ontario, Canada. We had originally acquired our interest in the property by making a cash payment of $3,500 on June 16, 2004 to Dan Patrie Exploration Ltd. the registered owners of the property.

On January 8, 2008, we acquired, through our wholly owned subsidiary, Dynamic Gravel Holdings Ltd., a 100% interest in two gravel claims called the Northern Gravel Claims and Super Mammoth Gravel Claims (together the &#8220;Super Mammoth Gravel Project&#8221;) situated on tidewater for $25,000. The Super Mammoth Gravel Project was acquired by way of a purchase agreement. Mr. Farshad Shirvani has been paid CDN$25,000. Mr. Farshad Shirvani will receive no further payments from the Company.

The Super Mammoth Gravel Project consists of two mineral claim tenures that are approximately 124.1 hectares (&#8220;ha&#8221;) each in size (total 248.2 ha). A detailed report used in obtaining aggregate samples has been filed and accepted by the British Columbia&#8217;s Gold Commissioner&#8217;s office in September 2007. The claims are currently in good standing until their respective anniversary dates which are November 6, 2016 (Northern Gravel Claims) and January 19, 2017 (Super Mammoth Claim). The acquisition cost of $25,000 was initially capitalized as a tangible asset. During the year ended June 30, 2008, the Company recorded a write-down of mineral property acquisition costs of $25,000 related to the Super Mammoth Gravel Project.

The Super Mammoth Gravel Project is located at Lloyd Point on the east arm of Toba Inlet situated 50 kilometers east of Campbell River, British Columbia, Canada and 28 kilometers north of Powell River, British Columbia, on the British Columbia mainland. The existence of the Super Mammoth gravel deposit has been identified by Lands and Water British Columbia Inc. and has been the subject of numerous preliminary investigations over the years, with the potential to host year-round future sand and gravel aggregate operations with tidewater access. The potential operation could supply growing demand for a range of raw materials to British Columbia, Washington State, California and other United States and Pacific Rim coastal construction markets. The Super Mammoth Gravel Project is situated from sea level to approximately 300 meters in elevation that comprises a sorted accumulation of sand and gravel.

On June 5, 2008, a comprehensive National Instrument 43-101 compliant report (the &#8220;report&#8221;) on the Super Mammoth Gravel Project was completed. The report was prepared in accordance with the guidelines of National Instrument 43-101 &#8220;Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects&#8221; and is based on data and geological information gathered from public sources, assessment files, historical information, British Columbia provincial government maps and reports. The source information of data presented in the report discusses the geology and mineral potential of the Super Mammoth Gravel project and is believed to be reliable and accurate.

To date we have not performed any other work on our property. There is no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on our property until further exploration is done and a comprehensive evaluation concludes economic feasibility.

Because Dynamic is an exploration stage company, in the event mineral deposits are confirmed as discovered on the Super Mammoth Gravel Project, we will not have the capability to remove and supply construction aggregate. When exploration stage companies discover mineral deposits, which are a rare occurrence, they typically sell their interest in the property to larger exploration, development or production stage mining companies, or they enter into a joint venture arrangement. The larger companies are then responsible for operating the property as a sand and gravel quarry or a mine. If a mineral deposit is discovered on the Super Mammoth Gravel Project, management anticipates entering into a similar arrangement with a more senior mining company.

Management&#8217;s plan of operation is to review the current market conditions and determine whether the Super Mammoth Gravel Project contains targets for future mineral exploration and development. The recoverability of amounts from the property will be dependent upon discovering economically recoverable reserves with specifications which are suitable for commercial products as defined by ASTM and CSA. Considerable further investigation will be required to establish the size of the deposit towards understanding its economic viability, the environmental concerns of the area and the social impact on various stakeholders.

Management anticipates the Company will be engaged in the acquisition, and exploration of additional mineral properties with a view to the exploitation of any mineral deposits discovered that demonstrate economic feasibility. Exploitation of a mineral deposit occurs when the company overseeing production processes rock or minerals from the property in order to remove and sell the contained resource in the deposit.

As an exploration stage company, we are engaged in the search for mineral deposits (reserves). We are not a development stage company involved in the preparation of an established commercially minable deposit for its extraction or a production stage company engaged in the exploitation of a mineral deposit.

Compliance with Government Regulation 

Our mineral exploration program is subject to the Mineral Tenure Act (British Columbia) and Regulations. This act sets forth rules for:

locating claims;

posting claims;

working claims; and

reporting work performed.

The Mineral Tenure Act (British Columbia) and Regulations also govern the work requirements for a claim including the minimum annual work requirements necessary to maintain a claim. The holder of a mineral claim must perform exploration and development work on the claim of $4.40 including filing fees, per hectare (&#8220;ha&#8221;) per year. We have two tenures totaling 248.2 ha. The Company is required to perform a minimum of $1,092 per year.

We are also subject to the British Columbia Mineral Exploration Code (the "Code") that tells us how and where we can explore for minerals. We must comply with these laws to operate our business. The purpose of the Code is to assist persons who wish to explore for minerals in British Columbia to understand the process whereby exploration activities are permitted and regulated. The Code establishes Province-wide standards for mineral exploration and development activities. The Code also manages and administers exploration and development activities to ensure maximum extraction with a minimum of environmental disturbance. The Code does not apply to certain exploration work we will be conducting. Specifically, work that does not involve mechanical disturbance of the surface including:

prospecting using hand-held tools;

geological and geochemical surveying;

airborne geophysical surveying;

hand-trenching without the use of explosives; and

the establishment of gridlines that do not require the felling of trees.

Subject to the results of Phase I, exploration activities that we may carry out in subsequent phases which are subject to the provisions of the Code are as follows:

drilling, trenching and excavating using machinery; and

disturbance of the ground by mechanical means (blasting).

Prior to proceeding with any exploration work subject to the Code we must apply for a notice of work permit. In this notice we will be required to set out the location, nature, extent and duration of the proposed exploration activities and crown land tensure application with the B.C. ministry. The notice is submitted to the regional office of the Ministry of Forest, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Sunshine Coast Resource District. We have not applied for this permit yet. We intend to do so, once we have secured the required funding to carry out the proposed program. We must raise a minimum of $100,000 before we will commence Phase I of our exploration program. Once applied for, this work permit is usually received within 60 days of the application date as it is granted as a matter of right.

The exploration permit that may be required for activities in phases subsequent to Phase I of our proposed exploration program is the only permit or license we will need to explore and develop commercial gravel and aggregate production on our property. It will take approximately two weeks to obtain the exploration permit. The permit is free and is usually granted as a matter of right, when applied for.

Environmental Laws 

We will also have to sustain the cost of reclamation and environmental remediation for all work undertaken which causes sufficient surface disturbance to necessitate reclamation work. Both reclamation and environmental remediation refer to putting disturbed ground back as close to its original state as possible. Other potential pollution or damage must be cleaned-up and renewed along standard guidelines outlined in the usual permits. Reclamation is the process of bringing the land back to a natural state after completion of exploration activities. Environmental remediation refers to the physical activity of taking steps to remediate, or remedy, any environmental damage caused, i.e. refilling trenches after sampling or cleaning up fuel spills. Our Phase I and II programs do not require any reclamation or remediation other than minor clean up and removal of supplies because of minimal disturbance to the ground. The amount of these costs is not known at this time as we do not know the extent of the exploration program we will undertake, beyond completion of the recommended two phases described above. Because there is presently no information on the size, tenure, or quality of any resource or reserve at this time, it is impossible to assess the impact of any capital expenditures on our earnings or competitive position in the event a potentially economic deposit is discovered.

Employees 

General . At present, there are no employees, other than the current officers and directors, who devote their time as required to the business operations. We intend to hire independent geologists, engineers and excavation subcontractors on an as needed basis. We have not entered into any negotiations or contracts with any of them other than Mr. Eric Ostensoe and Mr. Gary Payie who were independently employed to conduct field investigations and complete a comprehensive geological report on the Sobeski Lake Gold property and Super Mammoth Gravel Project respectively. Mr. Ostensoe and Mr. Payie are both independent geologists and would not be considered employees of Dynamic.

Research and Development Expenditures 

To date a total of $1,000 has been incurred in connection with Mr. Ostensoe&#8217;s preparation of a geological report concerning the Sobeski Lake Gold property. The Company allowed the claims to expire on January 20, 2008.

An additional $11,500 (June 30, 2008) has been incurred in connection with the preparation and completion of the Comprehensive National Instrument 43-101 compliant report on the Super Mammoth Gravel Project.

There have been no other research and development expenditures incurred since our incorporation.

Competition 

While the mineral property exploration business is competitive, management does not anticipate having difficulties retaining qualified personnel to conduct exploration on the Super Mammoth Gravel Project.

There are a large number of mineral exploration companies such as Dynamic that look to acquire interests in properties and conduct exploration on them. Given the large number of unexplored or under explored mineral properties that are currently available for acquisition, management does not expect competition to have a material impact on business operations.

In the mineral exploration sector, our competitive position is insignificant. There are numerous mineral exploration companies with substantially more capital and resources that are capable of securing ownership of mineral properties with a greater potential to host economic mineralization. We are not able to compete with such companies. Instead, management has determined that the Company will attempt to acquire properties without proven mineral deposits that may have the potential to contain mineral deposits.

Subsidiaries 

We have one subsidiary company &#8220;Dynamic Gravel Holdings Ltd.&#8221; Dynamic Gold (Canada) Corp. was formed on November 21, 2007 in the Province of Alberta, Canada to hold our interest in the Super Mammoth Gravel Project. On November 22, 2007 Dynamic Gold (Canada) Corp. changed its corporate name to Dynamic Gravel Holdings Ltd.

Patents and Trademarks 

We do not own, either legally or beneficially, any patents or trademarks.

Risk Factors 

An investment in the common stock of the Company involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this annual report before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment.

Risks Relating to the Company 

If we do not obtain additional financing, our business will fail. 

Our cash reserves are not sufficient to meet our obligations for the next-twelve month&#8217;s period. As a result, we will need to seek additional funding in the near future. We currently do not have a specific plan of how we will obtain such funding. However, we anticipate that additional funding will be in the form of equity financing from the sale of our common stock. As well, our management is prepared to provide us with short-term loans.

Our business plan calls for significant outlays of expense in connection with the exploration of the Super Mammoth Gravel Project. We do not have sufficient working capital to conduct an initial phase of exploration on the property estimated to cost $100,000. We will require funding of $300,000 to complete the recommended stage one and two work programs and significant additional funding in order to determine whether the property contains material which is suitable for commercial products. We will also require additional financing if the costs of the exploration of the Super Mammoth Gravel Project are greater than anticipated.

We will require additional financing to sustain our business operations if we are not successful in earning revenues once exploration is complete. We do not currently have any arrangements for financing and we can provide no assurance to investors that we will be able to find such financing if required. Obtaining additional financing would be subject to a number of factors, including the domestic and export market prices for sand and gravel aggregate, investor acceptance of our property and general market conditions. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms or conditions of additional financing unavailable to us.

The most likely source of future funds presently available to us is through the sale of equity capital or loans from our directors. Any sale of share capital will result in dilution to existing shareholders. The only other anticipated alternative for the financing of further exploration would be our sale of a partial interest in the Super Mammoth Gravel Project to a third party in exchange for cash or exploration expenditures, which is not presently contemplated.

Because we have not commenced business operations, we face a high risk of business failure. 

We have not yet commenced exploration on the property. Accordingly, we have no way to evaluate the likelihood that our business will be successful. To date, we have been involved primarily in organizational activities and the acquisition of our mineral property. We have not earned any revenues as of the date of this annual report.

Potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by new mineral exploration companies and the high rate of failure of such enterprises. These potential problems include, but are not limited to, unanticipated problems relating to exploration, and additional costs and expenses that may exceed current estimates.

Prior to completion of our exploration stage, we anticipate that we will incur increased operating expenses without realizing any revenues. If our exploration programs are successful in establishing materials of commercial grade, we will require additional funds in order to further develop the property.

We expect to incur significant losses into the foreseeable future. We recognize that if we are unable to generate significant revenues from development of the Super Mammoth Gravel Project and the production of minerals from the claims, we will not be able to earn profits or continue operations.

There is no history upon which to base any assumption as to the likelihood that we will prove successful, and we can provide investors with no assurance that we will generate any operating revenues or ever achieve profitable operations. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks, our business will most likely fail.

Because of the inherent dangers involved in mineral exploration, there is a risk that we may incur liability or damages which could hurt our financial position and possibly result in the failure of our business. 

The search for valuable minerals involves numerous hazards. As a result, we may become subject to liability for such hazards, including pollution, cave-ins and other hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure. The payment of such liabilities may have a material adverse effect on our financial position.

Even if we discover commercial reserves of economic sand and gravel on the Super Mammoth Gravel Project property we may not be able to successfully commence commercial production unless we receive additional funds, of which there are no guarantees. 

Even if our exploration programs are successful in establishing that the physical and chemical properties as defined by ASTM or CSA specifications of the sand and gravel present on the Super Mammoth Gravel Project is suitable for commercial products; considerable further investigation will be required to establish the size of the deposit towards understanding its economic viability, the environmental concerns of the area and the social impact on various stakeholders. We will also require additional funds in order to place the Super Mammoth Gravel Project into commercial production. We may not be able to obtain such funding.

Our independent auditor believes there is substantial doubt that we will continue as a going concern. If we do not continue as a going concern, you will lose your investment. 

The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2016, indicates that there are a number of factors that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Such factors identified in the report are our net loss position, our failure to attain profitable operations and our dependence upon obtaining adequate financing. If we are not able to continue as a going concern, it is likely investors will lose their investments.

Because our directors own 52.24% of our outstanding common stock, they could make and control corporate decisions that may be disadvantageous to other minority shareholders. 

Our directors own approximately 52.24% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, they will have a significant influence in determining the outcome of all corporate transactions or other matters, including mergers, consolidations, and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. They will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of our directors may differ from the interests of the other stockholders and thus result in corporate decisions that are disadvantageous to other shareholders.

Because our directors have other business interests, they may not be able or willing to devote a sufficient amount of time to our business operations, causing our business to fail. 

Our President will be devoting only 10% of his time to our business upon commencement of business operations. Currently our President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary devote approximately 10% of their time to our affairs. It is possible that the demands on our officers and directors from their other obligations could cause them to be unable to devote sufficient time to the management of our business. In addition, they may not possess sufficient time for our business if the demands of managing our business increased substantially beyond current levels.

Risks Relating to Our Common Stock 

The trading price of our common stock on the OTCQB Venture Market - OTC Market will fluctuate significantly and stockholders may have difficulty reselling their shares. 

As of the date of this Annual Report, our common stock trades on the OTCQB Venture Market - OTC Market under the symbol &#8220;DYGO&#8221;. There is a volatility associated with Bulletin Board securities in general and the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock: (i) disappointing results from our discovery or development efforts; (ii) failure to meet our revenue or profit goals or operating budget; (iii) decline in demand for our common stock; (iv) lack of funding generated for operations; (v) investor perception of our industry or our prospects; and (vi) general economic trends.

In addition, stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of securities have been highly volatile. These fluctuations are often unrelated to operating performance and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As a result, investors may be unable to sell their shares at a fair price and you may lose all or part of your investment.

Our common stock is considered a penny stock. Trading of our stock is restricted by the Securities and Exchange Commission&#8217;s penny stock regulations which may limit a stockholder&#8217;s ability to buy and sell our stock. 

Our stock is considered a penny stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors". The term "accredited investor" refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock.

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, has adopted sales practice requirements which may also limit a stockholder&#8217;s ability to buy and sell our stock. 

In addition to the "penny stock" rules described above, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares.

Reports to Securities Holders 

We are required to file annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a regular basis, and will be required to timely disclose certain material events (e.g., changes in corporate control; acquisitions or dispositions of a significant amount of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; and bankruptcy) in a current report on Form 8-K.

You may read and copy any materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at their Public Reference Room Office, 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549-0102. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, the Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

