 Item 1. 

Business 

Overview 

We are a pioneer and leading provider of cloud-based security and compliance solutions that enable organizations to identify security risks to their IT infrastructures, help protect their IT systems and applications from ever-evolving cyber-attacks and achieve compliance with internal policies and external regulations. Our cloud solutions address the growing security and compliance complexities and risks that are amplified by the dissolving boundaries between internal and external IT infrastructures and web environments, the rapid adoption of cloud computing and the proliferation of geographically dispersed IT assets. Our integrated suite of security and compliance solutions delivered on our Qualys Cloud Platform enables our customers to identify their IT assets, collect and analyze large amounts of IT security data, discover and prioritize vulnerabilities, recommend remediation actions and verify the implementation of such actions. Organizations use our integrated suite of solutions delivered on our Qualys Cloud Platform to cost-effectively obtain a unified view of their security and compliance posture across globally-distributed IT infrastructures. 

IT infrastructures are more complex and globally-distributed today than ever before, as organizations of all sizes increasingly rely upon a myriad of interconnected information systems and related IT assets, such as servers, databases, web applications, routers, switches, desktops, laptops, other physical and virtual infrastructure, and numerous external networks and cloud services. In this environment, new and evolving technologies intended to improve organizations&#8217; operations can also increase vulnerability to cyber attacks, which can expose sensitive data, damage IT and physical infrastructures, and result in serious financial or reputational consequences. In addition, the rapidly increasing amount of data and devices in IT environments makes it more difficult to identify and remediate vulnerabilities in a timely manner. The predominant approach to IT security has been to implement multiple disparate security products that can be costly and difficult to deploy, integrate and manage and may not adequately protect organizations. As a result, we believe there is a large and growing opportunity for comprehensive cloud-based security and compliance solutions. 

We designed our Qualys Cloud Platform to transform the way organizations secure and protect their IT infrastructures and applications. Our cloud platform offers an integrated suite of solutions that automates the lifecycle of asset discovery, security assessments, and compliance management for an organization&#8217;s IT infrastructure and assets, whether they reside inside the organization, on their network perimeter or in the cloud. Since inception, our solutions have been designed to be delivered through the cloud and to be easily and rapidly deployed on a global scale across a broad range of industries, enabling faster implementation and lower total cost of ownership than traditional on-premise enterprise software products. Our customers, ranging from some of the largest organizations to small businesses, are served from our globally-distributed cloud platform, enabling us to rapidly deliver new solutions, enhancements and security updates. 

We were founded and incorporated in December 1999 with a vision of transforming the way organizations secure and protect their IT infrastructure and applications and initially launched our first cloud solution, Qualys Vunerability Management (VM), in 2000. Our core VM solution has provided a substantial majority of our revenues to date, representing 79% , 82% &#32;and 84% &#32;of total revenues in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. As this solution gained acceptance, we introduced new solutions to help customers manage increasing IT security and compliance requirements. In 2006, we added our PCI Compliance solution, and in 2008, we added our Policy Compliance (PC) solution. In 2009, we broadened the scope of our cloud services by adding Web Application Scanning and continued our expansion in 2010, launching Malware Detection Service and Qualys SECURE Seal for automated protection of websites. In 2012, we introduced our virtualized private cloud platform as an additional deployment option of our solutions for customers and partners. In 2014, we released Continuous Monitoring for internet-facing systems, which allows customers to continuously monitor their mission-critical assets and to be alerted to security vulnerabilities or misconfigurations that may make them more susceptible to a cyber-attack. In 2015, we introduced our Cloud Agent Platform (CAP), which provides customers with the ability to secure IT assets on a continuous basis regardless of where they reside, inside the enterprise, in the cloud or mobile endpoints. &#32;&#32; CAP allows organizations to perform vulnerability and compliance management on a continuous basis. It is a natural extension to our cloud platform and allows us to expand our footprint in the enterprise and provide VM and PC solutions to mobile endpoints and elastic cloud environments. 

We provide our solutions through a software-as-a-service model, primarily with renewable annual subscriptions. These subscriptions require customers to pay a fee in order to access our cloud solutions. We invoice our customers for the entire subscription amount at the start of the subscription term, and the invoiced 

amounts are treated as deferred revenues and are recognized ratably over the term of each subscription. We continue to experience significant revenue growth from existing customers as they renew and purchase additional subscriptions. Revenues from customers existing at or prior to December 31, 2014 &#32;grew by $18.9 million &#32;to $152.5 million &#32;during 2015 , representing 114% &#32;of total revenues in 2014. We expect this tr end of revenue growth from existing customers to continue. 

Our Qualys Cloud Platform is currently used by over 8,800 &#32;organizations in more than 100 &#32;countries, including a majority of each of the Forbes Global 100 and Fortune 100. Our revenues increased from $108.0 million &#32;in 2013 &#32;to $133.6 million &#32;in 2014 , and reached $164.3 million &#32;in 2015 . We generated net income of $1.5 million &#32;in 2013 , $30.2 million &#32;in 2014 , and $15.9 million &#32;in 2015 . Net income in 2014 includes a tax benefit of $23.7 million for recognition of our U.S. federal and certain state deferred tax assets. Total assets as of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#32;were $323.5 million &#32;and $260.0 million , respectively. 

Our Growth Strategy 

We intend to leverage our innovation and extensive expertise to strengthen our leadership position as a trusted provider of cloud-based security and compliance solutions. The key elements of our growth strategy are: 

&#8226; 

Continue to innovate and enhance our cloud platform and suite of solutions. We intend to continue to make significant investments in research and development to extend our cloud platform&#8217;s functionality by developing new security solutions and capabilities and further enhancing our existing suite of solutions. In 2015, we introduced our Cloud Agent Platform, which provides customers with the ability to secure IT assets on a continuous basis regardless of where they reside, inside the enterprise, in the cloud or mobile endpoints. 

&#8226; 

Expand the use of our suite of solutions by our large and diverse customer base. With more than 8,800 &#32;customers across many industries and geographies, we believe we have a significant opportunity to sell additional solutions to our customers and expand their use of our suite of solutions. Since typically our customers initially deploy one or two of our solutions and in select parts of their IT infrastructures, our existing customers serve as a strong source of new sales as they expand their scope and increase their subscriptions, or choose to adopt other solutions from our integrated suite of IT security and compliance offerings. In this regard, we continue to expand our sales execution and marketing functions to increase adoption of our newly developed solutions among our existing customers. 

&#8226; 

Drive new customer growth. We are pursuing new customers by targeting key accounts and expanding our sales and marketing organization and network of channel partners. We will continue to seek to make significant investments to encourage organizations to replace their existing security products with our cloud solutions. 

&#8226; 

Broaden our global reach. We intend to expand our relationships with key security consulting organizations, managed security service providers and value added resellers to accelerate the adoption of our cloud platform. We seek to strengthen existing relationships as well as establish new relationships to increase the distribution and market awareness of our cloud platform and target new geographic regions. We also plan to partner with such security providers that can host our Private Cloud offering within their data centers, helping us expand our reach in new markets and new geographies. 

&#8226; 

Selectively pursue technology acquisitions to bolster our capabilities and leadership position. We may explore acquisitions that are complementary to and can expand the functionality of our cloud platform. We may also seek to acquire technology teams to supplement our own team and increase the breadth of our cloud-based security and compliance solutions. 

Our Platform 

Our Qualys Cloud Platform consists of a suite of IT security and compliance solutions that leverage our shared and extensible core services and our highly scalable multi-tenant cloud infrastructure. 

Our suite of solutions provides security intelligence by automating the life cycle of IT asset discovery, security assessment and compliance management. Our core services layer provides a set of advanced shared technologies that are leveraged by our suite of security and compliance solutions, which we refer to as our Core Services. 

Built on our cloud platform infrastructure, our Core Services provide an integrated framework with proprietary functionalities that act as building blocks to enable efficient and scalable delivery of our customer-facing cloud 

solutions. Our cloud platform&#8217;s infrastructure includes integrated services that deliver a highly automated and scalable scanning infrastructure capable of scanning IT systems and web applications, inside and outside corporate firewalls. 

The Core Services and infrastructure layers of our cloud platform deliver benefits to our entire suite of security and compliance solutions, including: 

&#8226; 

Dynamic and interactive user interfaces with configurable report templates to present scan data with a wide range of presentation options to match a customer&#8217;s needs; 

&#8226; 

Fast searching of several extensive Qualys data sets, including scan results, asset data, scan profiles, users and vulnerabilities; 

&#8226; 

Asset management technology for hierarchical asset categorization via dynamic tagging and role-based customer access management; and 

&#8226; 

Distributed scanning platform for global cloud-based environments. 

We also provide open application program interfaces, or APIs, and other developer tools that allow third parties to embed our technology into their solutions and build applications on our cloud platform. 

Our cloud platform is delivered to customers via our shared platform offering from our global data centers or via our private platform offering (Qualys Private Cloud Platform, or PCP), for customers or partners that want the platform to reside within the customer's on-premise data center. The PCP is a standalone version of our multi-layer, multi-tenant services architecture and is a fully integrated turnkey solution, making it more scalable, cost effective and faster to deploy within a customer's on-premise data center. Solutions delivered through our PCP are typically on the same subscription basis as solutions delivered through our shared platform. Our PCP utilizes hardware and software owned by us and physically located on the customer's premises. The customer is not permitted to take possession of the software or access the software code. Our PCP provides our subscription-based platform services to the customer using a virtual version of our software. This virtualized PCP allows us to extend our security and compliance solutions without the complexity and cost associated with deploying traditional enterprise software. 

Qualys Cloud Suite 

Our suite of solutions, which we refer to as the Qualys Cloud Suite, currently includes seven solutions: Vulnerability Management, Policy Compliance, PCI Compliance, Web Application Scanning, Malware Detection Service, Web Application Firewall, and Qualys SECURE Seal. This integrated set of cloud solutions enables organizations to: 

&#8226; 

Discover and catalogue information assets inside the organization, on the perimeter, or in the cloud; 

&#8226; 

Manage assets on an ongoing basis to establish a trusted repository for IT system configurations and to maintain hierarchical relationships between them; 

&#8226; 

Design policies to establish a secure and compliant IT infrastructure and automate ongoing security and compliance assessments of IT systems and applications in accordance with best practices; 

&#8226; 

Proactively identify and help fix vulnerabilities to mitigate security risks and achieve compliance; 

&#8226; 

Monitor and measure security and compliance through a unified user interface; 

&#8226; 

Distribute security and compliance reports tailored to differing customer needs, including management personnel, auditors and security professionals; and 

&#8226; 

Protect web applications from cyber attacks in real time. 

Our customers can subscribe to one or more of our security and compliance solutions based on their initial needs and expand their subscriptions over time to new areas within their organization or to additional Qualys solutions. We offer three editions of our Qualys Cloud Suite, the Enterprise edition for large enterprises, the Express edition for medium-sized businesses, and Express Lite for small-sized businesses. Qualys Cloud Suite solutions are described below. 

Qualys Vulnerability Management 

Qualys Vulnerability Management, or Qualys VM, is an industry leading and award-winning solution that automates network auditing and vulnerability management across an organization, including network discovery and mapping, asset management, vulnerability reporting, and remediation tracking. Driven by our comprehensive KnowledgeBase of known vulnerabilities, Qualys VM enables cost-effective protection against vulnerabilities without substantial resource deployment. Qualys VM can be performed via our network scanners (hardware or virtual) or via our Cloud Agents. 

Qualys Continuous Monitoring, an additional Qualys VM offering, gives organizations the ability to proactively identify threats and unexpected changes for their IT systems, which allows customers to continuously monitor their mission-critical assets and to be alerted to security vulnerabilities or misconfigurations that may make them more susceptible to a cyber-attack. 

Qualys Policy Compliance 

Qualys Policy Compliance, or Qualys PC, allows customers to analyze and collect configuration and access control information from their networked devices and web applications and automatically maps this information to internal policies and external regulations in order to document compliance. Qualys PC is fully automated and helps reduce customers&#8217; cost of compliance without requiring the use of software agents. It can be either performed via our network scanners (hardware or virtual) or via our Cloud Agents. 

Qualys Policy Compliance Questionnaire, an additional Qualys PC offering, enables customers to assess business processes and vendor risk against standards and mandates such as PCI-DSS, HIPAA, COBIT and ISO 27001/2. 

Qualys PCI Compliance 

Qualys PCI Compliance, or Qualys PCI, provides organizations that store cardholder data a cost-effective and highly automated solution to verify and document compliance with PCI DSS. Qualys PCI allows merchants to complete the annual PCI Self-Assessment Questionnaire, or SAQ , &#32;to perform vulnerability scanning for quarterly PCI audits and to meet the demands of PCI for web application security. 

Qualys Web Application Scanning 

Qualys Web Application Scanning, or Qualys WAS, uses the scalability of our cloud platform to allow customers to discover, catalog and scan a large number of web applications. Qualys WAS scans and analyzes custom web applications and identifies vulnerabilities that threaten underlying databases or bypass access controls. These web applications are often the main attack vectors for cyber attackers. 

Qualys Malware Detection 

Qualys Malware Detection, or Qualys MDS, provides organizations with the ability to scan, identify and remove malware infections from their websites. Qualys MDS utilizes behavioral and static analysis to provide malware detection to organizations. It provides periodic scanning to monitor websites and delivers email alerts to notify customers of infections. 

Qualys Web Application Firewall 

Qualys Web Application Firewall, or Qualys WAF, currently in limited release, delivers enterprise-grade web application security without the costs, footprint, and complexity associated with appliance-based web application firewall solutions. It is designed to protect web applications from attack vectors by enhancing default web application configurations and virtual patching. Qualys WAF can improve website performance by reducing page load times and optimizing bandwidth. 

Qualys SECURE Seal 

Qualys SECURE Seal helps organizations demonstrate to their online customers that they maintain a proactive security program. This solution includes scanning for the presence of malware, network and web application vulnerabilities and for SSL certificate validation. Websites that regularly perform these security scans with no critical security issues detected can display a Qualys SECURE Seal on their website to demonstrate to visitors that they are proactively securing their websites. 

Qualys Core Services 

Our Core Services enable integrated workflows, management and real-time analysis and reporting across all of our IT security and compliance solutions. Our Core Services include: 

&#8226; 

Asset Tagging and Management. Enables customers to easily identify, categorize and manage large numbers of assets in highly dynamic IT environments and automates the process of inventory management and hierarchical organization of IT assets. Built on top of this core service is the Qualys AssetView service, which is a global asset inventory service enabling companies to search for information on any IT asset, scaling to millions of assets for organizations of all sizes, helping IT and security personnel to search IT assets and maintain an up-to-date inventory on a continuous basis. 

&#8226; 

Reporting and Dashboards. A highly configurable reporting engine that provides customers with reports and dashboards based on their roles and access privileges. 

&#8226; 

Questionnaires and Collaboration. A configurable workflow engine that enables customers to easily build questionnaires and capture existing business processes and workflows to evaluate controls and gather evidence to validate and document compliance. 

&#8226; 

Remediation and Workflow. An integrated workflow engine that allows customers to automatically generate helpdesk tickets for remediation and to manage compliance exceptions based on customer-defined policies, enabling subsequent review, commentary, tracking and escalation. This engine automatically distributes remediation tasks to IT administrators upon scan completion, tracks remediation progress and closes open tickets once patches are applied and remediation is verified in subsequent scans. 

&#8226; 

Big Data Correlation and Analytics Engine . Provides capabilities for indexing, searching and correlating large amounts of security and compliance data with other security incidents and third-party security intelligence data. Embedded workflows enable customers to quickly assess risk and access information for remediation, incident analysis and forensic investigations. 

&#8226; 

Alerts and Notifications. Creates email notifications to alert customers of new vulnerabilities, malware infections, scan completion, open trouble tickets and system updates. 

Qualys Cloud Infrastructure 

Our infrastructure layer, which we refer to as our Infrastructure, includes the data, data processing capabilities, software and hardware infrastructure and infrastructure management capabilities that provide the foundation for our cloud platform and allow us to automatically scale our Infrastructure and Core Services to scan millions of IPs. Each Infrastructure service is described below: 

&#8226; 

Scalable Capacity . We have designed a modular and scalable infrastructure that leverages virtualization and cloud technologies. This allows our operations team to dynamically allocate additional capacity on-demand across our entire Qualys Cloud Platform to address the growth and scalability of our solutions. 

&#8226; 

Big Data Indexing and Storage. Built on top of our secure data storage model, this engine indexes petabytes of data and uses this information in real-time to execute tags or rules to dynamically update IT assets&#8217; properties, which are used in various workflows for scanning, reporting and remediation. 

&#8226; 

Qualys KnowledgeBase. Qualys &#32;relies on our comprehensive repository, which we refer to as our KnowledgeBase, of known vulnerabilities and compliance controls for a wide range of devices, technologies and applications that powers our security and compliance scanning technology. We update our KnowledgeBase daily with signatures for new vulnerabilities, control checks, validated fixes and improvements. 

&#8226; 

Managed Scanner Appliances. As part of our cloud platform, we host and operate a large number of globally distributed physical scanner appliances that our customers use to scan their externally facing systems and web applications. To scan internal IT assets, customers can also deploy our scanners, which are available on a subscription basis as physical appliances or downloadable virtual images, within their internal networks. Our scanner appliances self-update daily in a transparent manner using our automated and proprietary scan management technology. These scanner appliances allow us to scale our cloud platform to scan networked devices and web applications across organizations&#8217; networks around the world. 

&#8226; 

Cloud Agents. &#32;As part of our cloud platform, Qualys Cloud Agent provides a lightweight agent (2 mbytes) that can be installed on any host such as a laptop, desktop, server or virtual machine. Qualys Cloud Agents extract and consolidate vulnerability and compliance data and update it continuously within the Qualys 

Cloud Platform for further analysis and correlation, thus providing a continuous view of their IT security compliance posture of their global network. 

Our Customers 

We market and sell our solutions to enterprises, government entities and to small and medium-sized businesses across a broad range of industries, including education, financial services, government, healthcare, insurance, manufacturing, media, retail, technology and utilities. As of December 31, 2015 , we had over 8,800 &#32;customers in more than &#32; 100 &#32;countries, including a majority of each of the Forbes Global 100 and Fortune 100. In each of 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , no one customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues. In 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , approximately 70% &#32;of our revenues were derived from customers in the United States. We sell our solutions to enterprises and government entities primarily through our field sales force and to small and medium-sized businesses through our inside sales force. We generate a significant portion of sales through our channel partners, including managed service providers, value-added resellers and consulting firms in the United States and internationally. 

Sales and Marketing 

Sales 

We market and sell our IT security and compliance solutions to customers directly through our sales teams as well as indirectly through our network of channel partners. 

Our global sales force is organized into a field sales team, which focuses on enterprises, generally including organizations with more than 5,000 employees, and an inside sales team, which focuses on small to medium businesses, which generally include organizations with less than 5,000 employees. Both our field and inside sales teams are divided into three geographic regions, including the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa; and Asia-Pacific. We also further segment each of our sales teams into groups that focus on adding new customers or managing relationships with existing customers. 

Our channel partners maintain relationships with their customers throughout the territories in which they operate and provide their customers with services and third-party solutions to help meet those customers&#8217; evolving security and compliance requirements. As such, these partners offer our IT security and compliance solutions in conjunction with one or more of their own products or services and act as a conduit through which we can connect with these prospective customers to offer our solutions. Our channel partners include security consulting organizations, managed service providers and resellers, such as Dell Inc., Fujitsu, Insight Technologies, Inc., Optiv, and Verizon Communications Inc. 

For sales involving a channel partner, the channel partner engages with the prospective customer directly and involves our sales team as needed to assist in developing and closing an order. When a channel partner secures a sale, we sell the associated subscription to the channel partner who in turn resells the subscription to the customer, with the channel partner earning a fee based on the total value of the order. Once the order is completed, we provide these customers with direct access to our solutions and other associated back-office applications, enabling us to establish a direct relationship as part of ensuring customer satisfaction with our solutions. At the end of the subscription term, the channel partner engages with the customer to execute a renewal order, with our sales team providing assistance as required. In 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , 37% , 37% &#32;and 39% , respectively, of our revenues were generated by channel partners. 

Marketing 

Our marketing programs include a variety of online marketing, advertising, conferences, events, public relations activities and web-based seminar campaigns targeted at key decision makers within our prospective customers. 

We have a number of marketing initiatives to build awareness and encourage customer adoption of our solutions. We offer free trials and services to allow prospective customers to experience the quality of our solutions, to learn in detail about the features and functionality of our cloud platform, and to quantify the potential benefits of our solutions. 

Customer Support 

We deliver 24x7x365 customer support from centers located in Redwood City, California; Raleigh, North Carolina; Reading, United Kingdom; and Pune, India. We recruit senior level technical personnel and trained subject matter experts who work closely with engineering and operations personnel to resolve issues quickly. Our security and compliance solutions can be deployed easily and are designed to be implemented and operated without the need for any professional services. Accordingly, we do not sell any professional services. However, we do offer various training programs as part of our subscriptions to all of our customers. We believe that our customer support helps ensure customer satisfaction and is critical to retaining and expanding our customer base. In addition, we leverage the insights drawn from our customers to further improve the functionality of our security and compliance solutions. 

Research and Development and Operations 

We devote significant resources to maintain, enhance and add new functionality to our Qualys Cloud Platform and the integrated suite of solutions that we offer. Our development organization consists of agile engineering teams with substantial security expertise in specific areas of our solutions. In addition to our development teams, we have also built a sophisticated research team focused on identifying threats and developing signatures for vulnerabilities and compliance checks so that we can provide our customers with daily updates and enable them to scan their assets for the latest threats. We conduct our research and development in the United States, France, India, and the United Kingdom, which gives us access to some of the best research and engineering talent in the world. Our focus remains to attract engineering talent as we continue to add new solutions and improve existing ones. 

Our development team works closely with our customers and partners to gain valuable insights into their environments and gather feedback for threat research, product development and innovations. We typically release updates to our solutions, including enhancements and new features multiple times a year, and we measure the quality of our scan results on a frequent basis in an effort to maintain the highest level of scan accuracy. 

The modular architecture of our cloud platform enables our engineering teams to simultaneously work on different features, accelerating the delivery of new functionalities to customers. Our research and development team also works collaboratively with our technical support team to ensure customer satisfaction and with our sales team to accelerate the adoption of our solutions. 

Research and development expenses were $29.5 million , $26.3 million &#32;and $21.7 million &#32;for 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Manufacturing Agreement 

Our physical appliances are provided by SYNNEX Corporation, or SYNNEX, pursuant to a manufacturing services agreement dated March 1, 2011. Under this agreement, SYNNEX manufactures, assembles and tests our physical scanner appliances. This agreement has an initial term of one year, which is automatically renewed for additional one-year terms, unless terminated (i) at anytime upon the mutual written agreement of us and SYNNEX, (ii) by either party upon 90 days or more written notice, (iii) upon written notice, subject to applicable cure periods, if the other party has materially breached its obligations under the agreement or (iv) by either party upon the other party seeking an order for relief under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or similar laws of any other jurisdiction, a composition with or assignment for the benefit of creditors, or dissolution or liquidation. 

Data Center Agreements 

Our data center operations are provided by large third-party data center vendors and are located in the United States, Switzerland and the Netherlands. Our data center agreements have varying terms through 2018. 

Competition 

The expanding capabilities of our security and compliance solutions have enabled us to address a growing array of opportunities in the cloud IT security and compliance market. We compete with a large and broad array of established and emerging vulnerability management vendors, compliance vendors and data security vendors in a highly fragmented and competitive environment. 

We compete with large public companies, such as Barracuda Networks, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Imperva, Inc., International Business Machines Corporation, Rapid7, Inc. and Symantec Corporation, as well as 

privately held security providers including BeyondTrust Software, Inc., Tripwire, Inc., NetIQ Corporation, Tenable Network Security, Inc. and Trustwave Holdings, Inc. We also seek to replace IT security and compliance solutions that organizations have developed internally. As we continue to extend our cloud platform&#8217;s functionality by further developing security and compliance solutions, such as web application scanning and firewalls, we expect to face additional competition in these new markets. 

We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for cloud-based security and compliance solutions include product functionality, breadth of offerings, flexibility of delivery models, ease of deployment and use, total cost of ownership, scalability and performance, customer support and extensibility of platform. We believe that our suite of solutions generally competes favorably with respect to these factors. However, many of our primary competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, patents and trademarks, as well as contractual protections, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary technology. We have four issued patents, several pending U.S. patent applications and an exclusive license to four U.S. patents, which was obtained in connection with our acquisition of Nemean. The inbound license remains in effect until the licensed patents are no longer enforceable, unless the applicable license agreement is first terminated by us or terminated by the licensor for a breach of the agreement or if we undergo certain bankruptcy events. The licenses are currently exclusive and will remain exclusive so long as we make an appropriately-timed written election and pay an annual fixed royalty for ten years thereafter. These exclusive licenses are subject to the licensor&#8217;s reservation of certain rights in the patents and subject to the U.S. government&#8217;s reserved rights in the technology. We have a number of registered and unregistered trademarks. We require our employees, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements and control access to software, documentation and other proprietary information. We view our trade secrets and know-how as a significant component of our intellectual property assets, as we have spent years designing and developing our Qualys Cloud Platform, which we believe differentiates us from our competitors. 

Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products with the same functionality as our solution. Policing unauthorized use of our technology and intellectual property rights is difficult. 

We expect that software and other solutions in our industry may be subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us at any time. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 510 &#32;full-time employees, including 196 &#32;in research and development, 169 &#32;in sales and marketing, 92 &#32;in operations and customer support and 53 &#32;in general and administrative. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 288 &#32;employees in the United States and 222 &#32;employees internationally. None of our U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employees in certain European countries have collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We believe our employee relations are good and we have not experienced any work stoppages. 

Available Information 

Our principal executive offices are located at 1600 Bridge Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065. The telephone number of our principal executive offices is (650) 801-6100, and our main corporate website is www.qualys.com . Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website, does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and inclusion of our website address in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is an inactive textual reference only. 

&#32;We make available our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, free of charge on our website, www.qualys.com &#32;as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or SEC. Additionally, copies of materials filed by us with the SEC may be accessed at the SEC's 

Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov . For information about the SEC's Public Reference Room, contact 1-800-SEC-0330. 

Geographic Information 

For a description of our revenue and property and equipment by geographic location, see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

