 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

Organovo Holdings, Inc. (&#8220;Organovo Holdings,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;the Company&#8221; and &#8220;our Company&#8221;) is an early commercial stage company focused on developing and commercializing functional human tissues that can be employed in drug discovery and development, biological research, and as therapeutic implants for the treatment of damaged or degenerating tissues and organs. We intend to introduce a paradigm shift in the approach to the generation of three-dimensional (&#8220;3D&#8221;) human tissues, by utilizing our proprietary platform technology to create human tissue constructs in 3D that mimic native human tissue composition, architecture, and function. We believe we will leverage our highly unique 3D human tissue models to improve the current industry standard cell-based and animal model testing approaches to drug discovery and development by creating 3D tissues constructed solely of human cells. We believe our foundational approach to the 3D printing of living tissues, as disclosed in peer-reviewed scientific publications, and the continuous evolution of our core bioengineering technology platform combine to provide us with the opportunity to fill many critical gaps in commercially available preclinical human tissue modeling and tissue transplantation. 

Our foundational proprietary technology, grounded in over a decade of peer-reviewed scientific publications, derives from research led by Dr. Gabor Forgacs, the George H. Vineyard Professor of Biological Physics at the University of Missouri-Columbia. We have a broad portfolio of intellectual property rights covering the principles, enabling instrumentation, applications, and methods of cell-based printing, including exclusive licenses to certain patented and patent pending technologies from the University of Missouri-Columbia and Clemson University. We have continued to develop our technology and grow our intellectual property portfolio. In addition to our in-licensed patents, we own outright more than 90 additional patents and pending patent applications around the world. We believe that our broad and exclusive commercial rights to patented and patent-pending 3D bioprinting technology, 3D tissues and applications provides us with a strong and defensible market position for the successful commercialization of 3D bioprinted human tissues serving a broad array of unmet preclinical and clinical needs. 

We believe we have the potential to build and maintain a sustainable business by leveraging our core technology platform across a variety of applications. We have entered into multiple collaborative research agreements with pharmaceutical corporations and academic medical centers. We have also secured federal grants, including Small Business Innovation Research grants, to support the development of our technology. We developed the NovoGen MMX Bioprinter&#8482; (our first-generation 3D bioprinter) less than two years after commencing operations, and the Bioprinter was named one of the &#8220;Best Inventions of 2010&#8221; by TIME Magazine, and won a number of engineering innovation awards. Our first tissue product, exVive3D&#8482; Liver, Bioprinted Human Tissue, was launched in 2014 and received the CONNECT Most Innovative Product award for 2014 in Life Sciences (Diagnostics &#38; Research Tools). The exVive3D Liver was also selected as one of the Top 10 Innovations of 2014 by The Scientist magazine. We were selected by MIT&#8217;s Technology Review magazine among the Most Innovative Companies of 2012, by Inc. Magazine as one of the Most Audacious Companies in 2013, by Fast Company as one of the most innovative companies in healthcare for 2015, and as a Technology Pioneer for 2015 by the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. We believe these corporate achievements provide strong validation for the commercial potential of our 3D bioprinting platform and the tissues it produces. 

Our Platform Technology 

Our platform technology is centered on multiple 3D bioprinting technologies, which we have utilized to develop our proprietary instrument platform, our NovoGen Bioprinters &#174; . Our 3D bioprinting technologies enable a wide array of tissue compositions and architectures to be created, using purely cellular &#8216;bio-ink&#8217; (building blocks comprised of only living cells), biocompatible hydrogels, or combinations of the two. A key distinguishing feature of our bioprinting platform is the ability to generate complex 3D tissues that have all or some of their components comprised entirely of cells. Prior to the invention of our NovoGen bioprinting platform, the most common fabrication method for 3D tissues was the use of biomaterial scaffolding into which cells were incorporated. While useful for some applications, scaffold-based engineered tissues lack features of native tissue that are critical to function such as dense cellularity wherein cells have intimate contact with neighboring cells, and an intricate architecture created by the spatial arrangement of specific cellular compartments relative to each other. Organovo&#8217;s 3D bioprinting platform can deliver tissues that are truly three-dimensional with a cellularity and architecture that closely resembles native tissue. Moreover, most tissues can be generated using human cells as inputs, yielding functional models of human tissue that can be used in vitro for drug discovery and development. In the future, complex bioprinted human tissues may also address unmet clinical needs by serving as tissue grafts for the augmentation or replacement of functional mass in tissues and organs that have sustained significant damage by trauma or disease. 

We are focused on developing the following products: 

&#160;

&#183; 

A suite of standardized, 3D human tissues for the preclinical assessment of drug effects, including applications in predictive toxicology, absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion (&#8220;ADME&#8221;), and drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics (&#8220;DMPK&#8221;). 

&#160;

&#183; 

Highly customized human tissues as living, dynamic models of human biology or disease, for use in drug discovery and development. 

&#160;

&#183; 

Three-dimensional human tissues for clinical applications, such as blood vessels for bypass grafting, nerve grafts for nerve damage repair and functional tissue patches for the repair or replacement of damaged tissues and organs. 

Our Market Opportunity 

We believe that our proprietary 3D bioprinting platform enables us to deliver highly unique functional human tissues to the drug discovery and development market and to multiple clinical markets: 

&#160;

1) 

Standardized, Normal 3D Human Tissues for Predictive Toxicology and Preclinical Testing: We believe that our NovoGen MMX Bioprinter delivers highly differentiated 3D tissues for use in assays aimed at predicting human clinical outcomes. Our products in this area may replace or complement traditional two-dimensional (&#8220;2D&#8221;) cell culture based cell assays, or cellular co-culture systems. Because our 3D tissues are made of human cells and reproduce many aspects of in vivo tissue architecture and function, we believe they may provide advantages over non-human animal models with respect to prediction of in vivo human outcomes. Bioprinted 3D human tissue products may be provided to the market as kits that are sold by us or distributed by a partner. Additionally, our tissue products may be marketed as a compound screening service, for customers who prefer to provide their compounds to a testing laboratory that will conduct short- or long-term tests involving the exposure of our bioprinted 3D human tissues to their compound(s) and providing them with results and samples. The compound screening service may be conducted by us or may be offered by one or more partners, such as contract research organizations (&#8220;CROs&#8221;). 

Our 3D tissue products are anticipated to be compatible with a broad range of in vitro preclinical tests, including some aspects of assessments of ADME, DMPK, and predictive toxicology. DMPK testing is a subset of ADME. Determining the DMPK properties of a drug helps the drug developer to better predict its safety and efficacy. The ADME and DMPK properties of a drug essentially determine the bioavailability of that drug, including how long and at what concentrations it is exposed to the target tissue(s). Toxicology testing is a further requirement to assess the potential for a particular drug to seriously damage one or more organs systems while it is present in the body. Many aspects of preclinical drug testing can be altered significantly by age, genetics, disease state, and the presence of other drugs or chemicals. Most companies perform preclinical ADME, DMPK, and toxicology tests using a combination of biochemical and cell-based assays and animal testing. 3D bioprinted tissue products may replace or complement traditional cell based assays that typically employ primary hepatocytes, intestinal cell lines, renal epithelial cells and cell lines grown in traditional two-dimensional formats. Because 3D bioprinted tissues share more features with native tissue in vivo than standard 2D cell cultures, and they persist for extended time periods in vitro (&#62;40 days), we believe they can provide highly differentiated and valuable outcomes and give clients &#8220;human preclinical data&#8221; with greater depth and accuracy than has previously been possible. 

Additional opportunities in this area include the testing of environmental toxins and cosmetic products on living human tissues. Due to ethical concerns and regulatory considerations, there is a growing market opportunity for the use of 3D human tissue models as alternatives to non-human animal studies. For example, human skin models have substantial potential value as a means to test the effects of candidate cosmetic products prior to commercialization. We have established a collaborative research program in this field with the intention of developing products and services for this type of testing. In addition, many of the standard tissue models developed within this aspect of our business may be used to assess the potential human health impacts and toxicological properties of a large number of chemical products, environmental toxins, or biowarfare agents. 

&#160;

2) 

Specialized 3D Tissue Models for Drug Discovery and Development: Our NovoGen bioprinting platform, comprised of multicellular inputs (&#8220;bio-ink&#8221;) and a family of bioprinters with unique capabilities, can produce highly specialized human tissues that model physiology or disease. We have used our bioprinting platform to create a wide array of human tissues, including blood vessels, liver tissues, skin tissues, kidney tissues, lung tissues, and tumor tissues. 3D bioprinted tissues possess unique features, including cell type-specific compartments, prevalent intercellular tight junctions, and microvascular structures. These features facilitate the development of complex, multicellular disease models for use in the development of targeted therapeutics for cardiovascular disease, lung disease, liver disease, kidney disease, and oncology. Market opportunities within this aspect of our business may include externally-partnered or internally-directed drug discovery and the clinical development and commercialization of new molecular entities using highly customized 3D tissue models. 

&#160;

3) 

Implantable 3D T issues for Therapeutic Use: Cell- and tissue-based therapeutic products have advanced through research and development via multiple strategic approaches, with current clinical efforts in the field focused on systemic or localized delivery of cell suspensio ns or surgical installation of combination products that consist of a predominant biomaterial component and cellular component(s). The architectural precision and flexibility of our bioprinting platform may facilitate the prototyping, optimization, develop ment, and clinical use of three-dimensional tissue constructs. Importantly, our platform enables all or part of a three-dimensional tissue to be generated without dependence on scaffolding or biomaterial components, using only living cells as raw materials . The ultimate goal is to construct surgically implantable tissues that restore significant functional mass to a damaged tissue or organ after delivery. It is our belief that, in most cases, whole organ replacement will not be required to achieve meaningfu l clinical outcomes and address unmet medical needs. Three-dimensional tissues with tightly defined architecture and composition can create a new product category within cell and tissue therapies. Tissue products may include bioprinted tissues (patches, tu bes, etc.) or hybrids comprised of bioprinted tissues and device component(s). We may develop specific tissue targets with partners through technology licenses and royalty-bearing deals, and may self-fund the development of additional tissue targets throug h preclinical and clinical development. 

Background on Bioprinting 

The formation of &#8216;bio-ink&#8217;, the cell-based building blocks that can be dispensed by our suite of NovoGen Bioprinters &#174; , relies on the demonstrated principle that groups of individual cells will self-assemble to generate aggregates, through the actions of cell surface proteins that bind to each other and form junctions between cells. Furthermore, if two or more compatible self-assembled aggregates are placed in close proximity, under the proper conditions they will merge to generate larger, more complex structures via physical properties analogous to those that drive fusion of liquid droplets. The concept of tissue liquidity originated in studies of developmental biology, where it was noted that developing tissues have liquid-like properties that enable individual cellular components to pattern each other, migrate, organize, and differentiate. As development progresses, tissues transition from a dynamic viscous liquid state to a more static semi-solid state, largely driven by the compartmentalized organization of cellular components and production within the organized tissue of extracellular matrix proteins that provide the mature tissue with the biomechanical properties required for tissue specific function. 

Early publications describing scaffold-free bioprinting demonstrate self-assembly and tissue liquidity using cellular aggregates generated from developing chicken heart tissue, showing that adjacent aggregates will fuse over time and generate a larger cellular structure. This basic behavior can be leveraged to form more complex structures whereby aggregates are arranged in a specific geometry that can recapitulate shapes and architectures commonly found in tissues and organs, including tubes and multi-layered structures. 

Additional published results demonstrated that the observed fusion of aggregates in embryonic tissue can be extended to adult-derived cultured mammalian cells, as demonstrated by the fusion of adult hamster ovary epithelial cell aggregates to form toroid (ring) structures when placed into that geometry and held for about 120 hours. 

The NovoGen Bioprinter &#174; Platform 

Our NovoGen Bioprinters are automated devices that enable the fabrication of 3D living tissues comprised of mammalian cells. A custom graphic user interface (&#8220;GUI&#8221;) facilitates the 3D design and execution of scripts that direct precision movement of multiple dispensing heads to deposit defined cellular building blocks called bio-ink. Bio-ink can be formulated as a 100% cellular composition or as a mixture of cells and other matter (hydrogels, particles, etc.). Our NovoGen Bioprinters can also dispense pure hydrogel formulations provided the physical properties of the hydrogel are compatible with the dispensing parameters. Most typically, hydrogels are deployed to create void spaces within specific locations in a 3D tissue or to aid in the deposition of specific cell types. We employ a wide variety of proprietary cell- and hydrogel-based bio-inks in the fabrication of tissues. Our NovoGen Bioprinters also serve as important components of our tissue prototyping and manufacturing platform, as they are able to rapidly and precisely fabricate intricate small-scale tissue models for in vitro use as well as larger-scale tissues suitable for in vivo use. 

Our first-generation NovoGen MMX Bioprinter&#8482; went from in-licensing and initial design to commercial production in less than two years. Our efforts in systems engineering are focused on ensuring the continuous improvement and evolution of our NovoGen Bioprinters to meet the needs of internally driven and externally partnered tissue programs. To date, several generations of NovoGen Bioprinters have been designed, developed, and released for tissue production. 

Generation of bio-ink building blocks is the first step in bioprinting. A wide variety of cells can serve as the raw materials for bio-ink, including cell lines, primary cells, stromal cells, epithelial cells, endothelial cells, and progenitor cells. The majority of tissue designs employ two or more distinct varieties of bio-ink, usually comprised of cells that represent distinct compartments within a target tissue. For example, a 3D tumor might consist of both stromal and epithelial bio-inks, a vascular tube may consist of both fibroblast and smooth muscle bio-inks, and a liver tissue may consist of two bio-inks made from distinct liver cell types. Our NovoGen Bioprinters 

dispense two or more bio-inks layer by layer in the geometry specified by the user, with bio-inert hydrogels serving as an optional physical support for the bioprinted tissue as well as occupying any negative space included in the design. 

Our NovoGen MMX Bioprinter TM is a powerful enabling tool for the design, optimization, and fabrication of viable functional human tissues, based on our internal product discovery and development efforts as well as the experience of our corporate partners and customers. Continuous use of NovoGen Bioprinters in the pursuit of multiple in vitro and in vivo applications provides key insights that drive design features and specifications for next-generation instrumentation. We believe that we are uniquely positioned to deliver commercially viable 3D tissue products for drug development and clinical uses. 

We currently collaborate with the following institutions, providing access to our NovoGen Bioprinters for research purposes: Yale School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco (&#8220;UCSF&#8221;), Knight Cancer Institute at Oregon Health &#38; Science University (&#8220;OHSU&#8221;), the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (&#8220;NCATS&#8221;) and the National Eye Institute (&#8220;NEI&#8221;). We believe that the use of our bioprinting platform by major research institutes will help to advance the basic capabilities of the platform and generate new and exciting applications for bioprinted tissues, ultimately creating future opportunities for our commercial products and intellectual property licensing. 

Research Collaborations 

We currently have research collaborations with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and cosmetic companies, academic and research institutions and government agencies. These collaborations are focused on a variety of research projects, including: developing tissue-based drug discovery assays and tissues, developing more clinically predictive in vitro three-dimensional cancer models, exploring the use of our 3D liver tissues in toxicology, and exploring the use of 3D skin for testing skin care products. Our collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies generally involve the partner providing research funding to cover, in part or in full, the scope of work. This funding is typically reflected as revenues in our financial statements. Upon entering into a collaboration, we disclose the financial details only to the extent that they are material to our business. Our academic and research institute collaborations typically involve both us and the academic partner contributing resources directly to projects, but also may involve sponsored research agreements where we fund specific research programs. We may also contribute a bioprinter and technical support or a bioprinter plus research headcount, depending on the project scope. 

Our Products and Product Candidates 

We have utilized and intend to utilize our bioprinting technology to develop functional human tissues that can be employed in drug discovery and development, biological research and as therapeutic implants. Our first commercial tissue offered is exVive3D&#8482; Human Liver Tissue, which was designed to be used for predictive preclinical testing of drug compounds. In April 2014, we announced that we had begun to sign contracts with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for toxicity research services using our 3D Human Liver Tissue. In November 2014, we began to offer 3D Human Liver services more broadly. We currently focus on contract research services, though we also intend to offer our 3D Human Liver Tissue directly to end user customers as a product in a kit for toxicological and other testing over time. Our second commercial product under development is our 3D Human Kidney Tissue. Similar to our 3D Human Liver Tissue, we are designing our 3D Human Kidney Tissue to be used for predictive preclinical testing of drug compounds.

Samsara Sciences

In January 2016, we announced that our wholly-owned subsidiary, Samsara Sciences, Inc. (&#8220;Samsara&#8221;), commenced commercial operations. We formed Samsara to serve as a key source of certain of the primary human cells we utilize in our products and services and in the development of therapeutic products. We believe Samsara can help us optimize our supply chain and operating expenses related to cell sourcing and procurement and ensure that the cellular raw materials we use are of the highest quality and are derived from tissues that are ethically sourced in full compliance with state and federal guidelines. Samsara has begun providing us with qualified liver cells for use in our 3D Human Liver Tissue manufacturing, and certain other human cells for use in our preclinical research and development programs. In addition to serving as one of our key suppliers, Samsara offers human cells for use by life science customers, both directly or through distribution partners. 

Competition 

We are subject to significant competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and diagnostic companies; academic and research institutions; and government or other publicly-funded agencies that are pursuing the development of tissue models and therapeutic products that otherwise address the needs of our potential customers. We believe our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to maintain a competitive position in our field. Biopharmaceutical technologies have undergone and are expected to continue to undergo rapid and significant change. We or our competitors may make rapid technological developments which may cause our research tools or therapeutic products to become obsolete before we recover the development expenses we have incurred. The 

introduction of less expensive or more effective therapeutic discovery and developme nt technologies, including technologies that may be unrelated to our field, may also make our technology or products less valuable or obsolete. We may not be able to make the necessary enhancements to our technologies or products to compete successfully wi th newly emerging technologies. The failure to maintain a competitive position in the biopharmaceutical field may result in decreased revenues. 

We are a platform technology company dedicated to the development and production of functional human tissues that service the drug discovery and development, biological research, and cell- and tissue-based therapy industries. 

Set forth below is a discussion of competitive factors for each of the broad markets in which we intend to utilize our technology: 

&#160;

1) 

Standardized 3D Tissues for in vitro Preclinical Testing: We intend to employ our technology to provide an array of broadly applicable 3D tissue models for use in preclinical assessments of safety and efficacy as an adjunct or alternative to animal studies. Examples of products in this segment of the business include cell-based models for ADME/TOX/DMPK markets. 

We believe that we are the first and only company to leverage a bioprinting system in the commercial production of 3D tissue products. Importantly, our fabrication platform remains highly unique in its ability to fabricate 3D tissues from human cells without reliance on biomaterial scaffolding. Consequently, the tissues that we produce have unique features that to date have not been attainable in 3D tissues generated by alternative strategies. Specifically, we believe the dense cellularity, compartmentalized 3D geometry, and microarchitectural features of our bioprinted tissues offer unparalleled in vitro modeling of native tissues. Current competition in this area, and predominant market share, arises mainly from two sources, traditional cell-based in vitro culture approaches and traditional in vivo animal models and testing. Additional competition exists from non-bioprinted cell-based assays offered by such companies as InSphero AG, Ascendance Biotechnology, Inc., RegeneMed Inc., and Hurel Corporation, some of which have a three-dimensional aspect. Although assays from these companies have limited market share today, they may improve market share and competitive position in the future. Future competition may also exist from companies developing cellular models &#8220;on a chip&#8221;, such as Emulate, or developing tissues with alternative biofabrication methods, such as Cyfuse.

&#160;

2) 

Specialized Models for Drug Discovery and Development: This aspect of our business is driven by leveraging our technology as a high-end partnered service that designs and delivers highly complex, custom tissue models of normal or diseased tissue for use in drug discovery and development. Each model is designed to enable a customer to discover or optimally formulate a pharmacologic product that delivers a specific therapeutic effect, or avoids a particular side effect. In addition to revenue generated from the tissue production work, additional revenues are possible in the form of up-front license fees, milestone payments, know-how payments, and royalties. We can provide the customer access to tissues as a service or can produce and supply the tissues to customers; both options are designed to generate continuing revenue. Competition in this area arises mainly from two sources, traditional cell-based in vitro culture approaches and traditional in vivo animal models and testing. Future competition from companies like Cyfuse Biomedical (including service companies using their instrument platform), and Aspect Biosystems is also possible. 

We believe that an important factor distinguishing our approach from that of our competitors is our ability to build models that are composed of human cells and have a 3D tissue-like configuration (i.e., able to generate results that are not subject to inherent limitations of 2D monolayer culture). We acknowledge, however, that there are some areas of research for which the existing methods (2D cell culture and/or animal studies) are adequate and 3D in vitro human tissues are not sufficiently advantageous on a cost basis. 

&#160;

3 ) 

Implantable 3D Tissues for Clinical Use: This aspect of our business involves application of our 3D bioprinting technology to generate human tissues suitable for implantation in vivo to augment or replace damaged or degenerating tissues. These efforts will be undertaken by us alone, or as partnered projects with leading therapeutic companies seeking to develop a therapeutic tissue product for a specific application. Near-term revenues would come from the funding of development work and, in some cases, licensing fees for access to our platform technologies. We expect longer-term revenues may arise from shared profits and royalties or other forms of income from successful clinical and commercial development of the tissue products. There are many companies pursuing the discovery, development, and commercialization of tissue-based products for a variety of applications, including but not limited to Organogenesis and Cyfuse. These companies uniquely represent potential competition for us while also being partner candidates. Our platform has the ability to enable the generation and optimization of unique, scaffold-free or hybrid tissue prototypes and ultimately support production of the tissue. 

Research and Development 

We continuously engage in research and development to enhance our platform technology, to develop new products and service offerings and to pursue our therapeutic initiatives. Our research and development efforts include internal initiatives as well as collaborative development opportunities with third parties. Our research and development expenses were $18.0 million, $12.9 million 

and $ 8.0 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 , March 31, 201 5 , and March 31, 201 4 , respectively. We focus our research and development activities in areas where we have techno logical expertise and where we believe a significant market opportunity exists for our technology and the products and services we develop. We intend to continue our focus on research and development as a key strategy for the growth of our business. 

Intellectual Property 

Our success depends in large part on our ability to establish and protect our proprietary technologies and our products and services. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and a variety of contractual mechanisms such as confidentiality, material transfer, licenses, and invention assignment agreements, to protect our intellectual property. Our intellectual property portfolio for our core technology was initially built through licenses from the University of Missouri-Columbia (&#8220;MU&#8221;) and the Medical University of South Carolina. We have subsequently expanded our intellectual property portfolio by filing patent applications and negotiating additional licenses and purchases.

We own or hold exclusive licenses to 12 issued U.S. patents and 22 pending U.S. patent applications. Outside of the U.S., we own or hold exclusive licenses to 15 issued patents and over 90 pending applications, related to our bioprinting technology and its various uses in areas of tissue creation, in vitro testing, and utilization in drug discovery, including filings covering specific tissue constructs. 

In-Licensed IP 

In 2009 and 2010, we obtained world-wide exclusive licenses to intellectual property owned by MU and the Medical University of South Carolina, which now includes 6 issued U.S. patents, 4 pending U.S. applications, 8 issued international patents and 15 pending international applications. Dr. Gabor Forgacs, one of our founders and the George H. Vineyard Professor of Biophysics at MU, was one of the co-inventors of all of these works (collectively, the &#8220; Forgacs Intellectual Property &#8221;). The Forgacs Intellectual Property provides us with intellectual property rights relating to cellular aggregates, the use of cellular aggregates to create engineered tissues, and the use of cellular aggregates to create engineered tissue with no scaffold present. The intellectual property rights derived from the Forgacs Intellectual Property also enables us to utilize our NovoGen MMX Bioprinter to create engineered tissues. 

In 2011, we obtained an exclusive license to a U.S. patent (U.S. Pat. No. 7,051,654) owned by the Clemson University Research Foundation that provides us with intellectual property rights relating to methods of using ink-jet printer technology to dispense cells, and relating to the creation of matrices of bioprinted cells on gel materials. 

The patent rights we obtained through these exclusive licenses are not only foundational within the field of 3D Bioprinting, but provide us with favorable priority dates. We are required to make ongoing royalty payments under these exclusive licenses based on net sales of products and services that rely on the intellectual property we in-licensed. For additional information regarding our royalty obligations see Note 7 to Consolidated Financial Statements &#8220;Licensing Agreements and Research Contracts&#8221; in our audited financial statements that are included in this Annual Report. 

Company Owned IP 

In addition to the IP we have in-licensed, we have continued to innovate and grow our IP portfolio.

With respect to our bioprinting platform, we have 3 issued U.S. patents directed to our NovoGen MMX Bioprinter and methods of bioprinting: U.S. Patent No. 8,931,880; No. 9,149,952; and No. 9,227,339. We have additional U.S. continuation applications pending in this family as well foreign counterpart applications in multiple countries. We recently received a notice of allowance in the U.S. for a patent in a second family covering additional features of our bioprinter. Additional continuation applications are pending in the U.S. in this second family, as well as foreign counterpart applications in multiple countries. We intend to continue pursuing patent protection as we continue to innovate in relation to the design, features, and functionality of our bioprinter platform and bioprinting methods.

Organovo is also pursuing U.S. and foreign patents covering our 3D bioprinted tissues and methods of fabricating such tissues. Our exVive3D Human Liver Tissue is protected by U.S. Patent No. 9,222,932. We have additional U.S. patent applications pending in this family, as well as foreign counterpart applications in multiple countries. We currently have pending numerous patent applications in the U.S. and globally that are directed to additional types of tissues, their methods of fabrication, and specific applications. We intend to continue filing additional patent applications as we continue to innovate in this area.

We believe that protection of the proprietary nature of our products and technologies is essential to our business. Accordingly, we have adopted and will continue a vigorous program to secure and maintain protection of our intellectual property. Under this program, we intend to continue to file patent applications with respect to novel technology, and improvements thereof, that are important to our business. We also will continue to rely upon trade secret protection of our methods and technology. As with other areas of 

biotechnology, this provides a criti cal adjunct to the protection offered by patents. As always, we continue to pursue our internal technological innovation and external licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. There can be no assurance that others will not i ndependently develop substantially equivalent proprietary technology or that we can meaningfully protect our proprietary position. 

Regulatory Considerations 

We are not aware of any current FDA regulatory requirements for sales or use of 3D tissue models for use in research applications. All human cells utilized in our research activities and, ultimately in our bioprinted tissue products, are collected in compliance with the FDA&#8217;s guidance for current Good Tissue Practices (cGTP). However, our collaboration partners face regulatory review of the research data generated using our technology platform and research tools. Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) data is required in the development of any human therapeutic, and our technology platform has been designed to support compliance with GLP, although no independent certification has been performed to date to confirm this compliance. In addition, as our constructs move into clinical and commercial settings, full compliance with the FDA&#8217;s cGTP (current Good Tissue Practices) and cGMP (current Good Manufacturing Practices) guidelines will be required. Suitable design and documentation for clinical use of the bioprinter will be a part of future phases of our NovoGen Bioprinter &#174; design programs. 

Therapeutic tissues and other regenerative medicine products are subject to an extensive, lengthy and uncertain regulatory approval process by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and comparable agencies in other countries. The regulation of new products is extensive, and the required process of laboratory testing and human studies is lengthy and expensive. The resource investment necessary to meet the requirements of these regulations will fall on our collaborating partners, or may be shared with us, to the extent that we are developing proprietary products that are the result of a collaboration effort. The resource investment of time, staff and expense to satisfy these regulations will fall on us for the proprietary products we are developing on our own. We may not be able to obtain FDA approvals for those products in a timely manner, or at all. We may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals or licenses. Even if we obtain FDA regulatory approvals, the FDA extensively regulates manufacturing, labeling, distributing, marketing, promotion and advertising after product approval. Moreover, several of our product development areas may involve relatively new technology and have not been the subject of extensive product testing in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these products and related clinical procedures remain uncertain and the products themselves may be subject to substantial review by the FDA and/or foreign governmental regulatory authorities that could prevent or delay approval of these products and procedures. Regulatory requirements ultimately imposed on our products could limit our ability to test, manufacture and, ultimately, commercialize our products and thereby could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 

Raw Materials 

We use live human cells to produce our 3D tissues. We formed our wholly-owned subsidiary, Samsara Sciences, Inc. (&#8220;Samsara&#8221;), to serve as a key source of the primary human cells we utilize in our products and services and in the development of therapeutic products. Samsara is currently supplying us with qualified human liver cells for use in manufacturing our exVive 3D Human Liver Tissue, as well as certain cells for research and development activities. We believe that Samsara can help us optimize our supply chain and operating expenses and ensure that the human cells we utilize for our services, products and research and development programs are of the highest quality and are derived from tissues that are ethically sourced in full compliance with state and federal guidelines. In addition to Samsara, we also purchase human cells from selected third-party suppliers based on quality assurance, cost effectiveness, and regulatory requirements. We work closely with Samsara and our third-party suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. Although we believe we have adequate available sources of raw materials, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to access the quantity of raw material needed to meet our demands on a timely basis or at a cost effective price . 

Employees 

As June 1, 2016, we have 116 employees, of whom 115 are employed full time. We also engage consultants and temporary employees from time to time to provide services that relate to our bioprinting business and technology as well as for general administrative services. 

Available Information 

Our investor relations website is located at http://ir.organovo.com. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;). Reports filed with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act, including annual and quarterly reports, and other reports we file, are available free of charge, through our website, and we make them available on the website as soon as reasonably possible after we file them with the SEC. The content of our website is not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document that we file. 

The reports we file with the SEC can also be inspected and copied at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Investors can request copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee by writing to the SEC. The reports we file with the SEC are also available on the SEC&#8217;s website ( http://www.sec.gov ). 

&#160;

&#160;

