 Item 1. Business. General Development and Description of Business and Business Segments 

Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, as used herein, &#147;Hasbro&#148;, the &#147;Company&#148;, &#147;we&#148;, or &#147;us&#148;, means Hasbro, Inc., a Rhode Island corporation organized on January 8, 1926, and its subsidiaries. 

Overview 

We are a global branded-play company committed to Creating the World&#146;s Best Play Experiences. We strive to do this through deep consumer engagement and the application of consumer insights, the use of immersive storytelling to build our brands, product innovation and development of global business reach. We apply these principles to leverage our beloved owned and controlled brands, including LITTLEST PET SHOP, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MONOPOLY, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF, PLAY-DOH and TRANSFORMERS, as well as the licensed brands of our strategic partners. From toys and games to television programming, motion pictures, digital gaming and a comprehensive consumer products licensing program, Hasbro fulfills the fundamental need for play and connection for children and families around the world. The Company&#146;s wholly-owned Hasbro Studios creates entertainment brand-driven storytelling across mediums, including television, film and more. These elements are executed globally within the construct of our strategic plan, the brand blueprint, at the center of which our brands reside. Using this blueprint, we innovate new brands and re-imagine, re-invent and re-ignite our owned and controlled brands through toy and game innovation, immersive entertainment offerings, including television programming and motion pictures, and a broad range of licensed products, ranging from traditional to high-tech and digital, all informed by storytelling and consumer insights. 

Brand Architecture 

Hasbro organizes owned, controlled and licensed intellectual properties within the brand architecture with a focus on the following: Franchise Brands, Challenger Brands, Mega Gaming Brands and Partner Brands. Implementation of the brand architecture has allowed us to leverage existing brand competencies outside the confines of our traditional product categories, creating significant growth opportunities in our brands. 

&#160; 

Franchise Brands are Hasbro&#146;s most significant owned or controlled properties which we believe have the ability to deliver significant revenues and growth over the long-term. Our seven Franchise Brands are LITTLEST PET SHOP, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MONOPOLY, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF, PLAY-DOH and TRANSFORMERS. As reported, net revenues from Franchise Brands declined 2% in 2015 but grew 31% and 15% in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Absent the impact of foreign currency translation in 2015, net revenues from Franchise Brands grew 7% in 2015 compared to 2014. Furthermore, in 2015, 2014 and 2013, Franchise Brands were 52%, 55% and 44% of total net revenues, respectively. 

Challenger Brands are those owned or controlled Hasbro brands which have not yet achieved Franchise Brand status, but which the Company believes have the potential to do so over time with investment and further development. Challenger Brands includes BABY ALIVE, FURBY, FURREAL FRIENDS, KRE-O, PLAYSKOOL and PLAYSKOOL HEROES. 

Hasbro continues to revolutionize traditional game play through its strong portfolio of Mega Gaming Brands, digital integration and the introduction of new gaming brands and play experiences. Mega Gaming Brands specifically include CONNECT 4, ELEFUN &#38; FRIENDS, JENGA, THE GAME OF LIFE, OPERATION, SCRABBLE, TRIVIAL PURSUIT and TWISTER; however, Hasbro&#146;s games portfolio also includes many other well-known game brands. Games offerings include face to face, trading card and digital game experiences played as board, off-the-board, digital, card, electronic, trading card and role-playing games. 

Partner Brands include those licensed brands for which Hasbro develops products. Significant Partner Brands include MARVEL, including SPIDER-MAN and THE AVENGERS, STAR WARS, DISNEY&#145;S DESCENDANTS, JURASSIC WORLD, and SESAME STREET. 2016 marks the first year of our license agreement with The Walt Disney Company (&#147;Disney&#148;) to market DISNEY PRINCESS and FROZEN small and fashion doll product lines. Partner brands MARVEL, STAR WARS, DISNEY&#146;S DESCENDANTS, DISNEY PRINCESS and FROZEN are all owned by Disney. 

In 2015, Hasbro sold product supported by three major motion picture releases by our partners. These major motion picture releases comprised THE AVENGERS: AGE OF ULTRON, JURASSIC WORLD and STAR WARS: THE FORCE AWAKENS. The financial impact of these major motion picture releases on our results is discussed in detail in the management&#146;s discussion and analysis section of this report. In 2016, Hasbro expects to sell product lines supported by the following expected theatrical releases from Disney: CAPTAIN AMERICA: CIVIL WAR in May 2016, MOANA in November 2016, and ROGUE ONE: A STAR WARS STORY in December 2016. We also expect to sell products related to the expected Dreamworks Animation theatrical release of TROLLS in the fall of 2016. Aside from these major brand categories, we continue to seek growth opportunities by imagining, inventing and igniting new or archived brands and by offering engaging branded-play experiences. 

Storytelling and Other Entertainment Initiatives 

Our brand blueprint focuses on reinforcing storylines associated with our brands through several outlets, including television, motion pictures and digital media. 

As part of our brand blueprint, we seek to build our brands through entertainment-based storytelling. Hasbro Studios LLC (&#147;Hasbro Studios&#148;) is our wholly-owned production studio, which is responsible for brand-driven storytelling across mediums, including the development and global distribution of television programming primarily based on our brands. This programming currently airs in markets throughout the world. Domestically, Hasbro Studios primarily distributes programming to Discovery Family Channel (the &#147;Network&#148;) which is a joint venture between Discovery Communications, Inc. (&#147;Discovery&#148;) and ourselves which operates a cable television network in the United States dedicated to high-quality children&#146;s and family entertainment and educational programming. Beginning in 2015, Hasbro Studios began distributing certain programming domestically to other outlets, including Cartoon Network. Internationally, Hasbro Studios distributes to various broadcasters and cable networks. Lastly, Hasbro Studios distributes programming globally on various digital platforms, including Netflix and iTunes. 

During 2014, we formed Allspark Pictures, Hasbro&#146;s film label, which is producing both animated and live action theatrical releases based on our brands. The Company&#146;s storytelling initiatives support its strategy of 

&#160; 

growing its brands well beyond traditional toys and games and providing entertainment experiences for consumers of all ages accessible anytime in many forms and formats. In October 2015, Allspark Pictures released JEM AND THE HOLOGRAMS . In October 2016, Allspark Pictures expects to release OUIJA 2. 

In addition to film and television initiatives, Hasbro understands the importance of digital media and digitally integrating our products. Digital media encompasses digital gaming applications and the creation of digital environments for analog products through the use of complementary digital applications and websites which extend storylines and enhance play. We own a 70% majority stake in Backflip Studios, LLC (&#147;Backflip&#148;), a mobile game developer. While certain of our trademarks, characters and other property rights are licensed by third parties in connection with digital gaming, we anticipate leveraging and applying Backflip&#146;s digital gaming expertise to Hasbro brands in 2016 and beyond. 

As we seek to grow our business in entertainment, licensing and digital gaming, we will continue to evaluate strategic alliances, acquisitions and investments, like Hasbro Studios, the Network and Backflip, which may complement our current product offerings, allow us entry into an area which is adjacent or complementary to our toy and game business, or allow us to further develop awareness of our brands and expand the ability of consumers to experience our brands in different forms and formats. 

Product Categories 

We market our brands under the following primary product categories: (1) boys; (2) games; (3) girls; and (4) preschool toys. 

Boys Franchise Brands in our boys&#146; category include the NERF action sports products and TRANSFORMERS action figures and accessories. The TRANSFORMERS brand, which has been supported by the four major, successful theatrical releases over the past decade in combination with animated television program developed by Hasbro Studios, TRANSFORMERS: ROBOTS IN DISGUISE, has become a hallmark example of how successful our brand blueprint can be when properly executed across all mediums . In addition to these Franchise Brands, the boys&#146; category also includes SUPER SOAKER water blasters and G.I. JOE action figures and accessories. Another significant portion of our boys&#146; category includes licensed product lines based on popular movie, television and comic book characters, such as MARVEL and STAR WARS. In 2015, overall results from the boys category benefited from significant product sales related to three major motion picture releases: AVENGERS: AGE OF ULTRON, STAR WARS: THE FORCE AWAKENS and JURASSIC WORLD. In addition to marketing and developing traditional action figures and accessories for these entertainment brands, the Company also develops and markets products designed for collectors, which has been a key component of the success of the TRANSFORMERS, STAR WARS and MARVEL brands. 

Games Over the years, we have established a diverse portfolio of well-known games brands through innovation, invention and acquisition. Our Franchise Brands, MAGIC: THE GATHERING and MONOPOLY, headline our portfolio and are accompanied by our mega gaming brands, including CONNECT 4, ELEFUN &#38; FRIENDS, GAME OF LIFE, JENGA, OPERATION, SCRABBLE, TRIVIAL PURSUIT and TWISTER. To successfully execute our gaming strategy, we consider brands which may capitalize on existing trends while evolving our approach to gaming using consumer insights and offering gaming experiences relevant to consumer demand for face-to-face, board, off-the-board, digital, card, electronic, trading card, role playing and other game play including the launch of new play patterns. In the fourth quarter of 2015, net revenues from the games category benefited from the introduction of PIE FACE. 

Girls Our girls&#146; category not only includes traditional girls&#146; toys but also provides a variety of contemporary and engaging play experiences. Girls&#146; Franchise Brands include LITTLEST PET SHOP, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF REBELLE and PLAY-DOH DOH VINCI while Girls&#146; Challenger Brands include BABY ALIVE, FURBY and FURREAL FRIENDS. Franchise Brands LITTLEST PET SHOP and MY LITTLE PONY are each supported by animated television programming developed by Hasbro Studios. In addition to Hasbro Franchise and Challenger Brands, we also have licenses to develop certain product lines based on popular television and film brands, including DISNEY&#146;S DESCENDANTS, DISNEY PRINCESS, FROZEN and TROLLS. Our DISNEY PRINCESS and FROZEN product lines were introduced at retail in January 2016. Lastly, Hasbro 

&#160; 

continues to grow and promote existing brands by leveraging their strengths across other toy categories. Our NERF REBELLE and PLAY-DOH DOH VINCI product lines reflect this strategy. 

Preschool Our preschool category encompasses a range of products for infants and preschoolers in various stages of development. In the preschool category, we are focused on our Franchise Brands and story-led initiatives where we believe we can differentiate our offerings and deliver higher profitability. Franchise Brand offerings in the preschool category include MY LITTLE PONY, TRANSFORMERS and PLAY-DOH, including modeling compound and playsets. Our offerings also include preschool product lines based on those aforementioned licensed entertainment properties, including JURASSIC WORLD, MARVEL and STAR WARS. In recent years, we have introduced preschool product lines which complement our girls and boys product lines. Generally, these product lines fall within our PLAYSKOOL HEREOS and PLAYSKOOL FRIENDS brands and include MY LITTLE PONY, JURASSIC WORLD, TRANSFORMERS RESCUE BOTS, MARVEL SUPER HERO ADVENTURES and STAR WARS GALACTIC HEROES. In addition to PLAYSKOOL HEROES and PLAYSKOOL FRIENDS, our PLAYSKOOL brand also includes well-known core products such as MR. POTATO HEAD, SIT &#145;N SPIN and GLOWORM, along with a line of infant toys including STEP START WALK&#146; N RIDE and ELEFUN BUSY BALL POPPER. 

Segments 

Organizationally, our three principal segments are U.S. and Canada, International and Entertainment and Licensing. The U.S. and Canada and International segments engage in the marketing and selling of various toy and game products described above. Our toy and game products are primarily developed by cross-functional teams, including members of our global development and marketing groups, to establish a cohesive brand direction and assist the segments in establishing certain local marketing programs. The costs of these groups are allocated to the principal segments. Our U.S. and Canada segment covers the United States and Canada while the International segment primarily includes Europe, the Asia Pacific region and Latin and South America. The Entertainment and Licensing segment conducts our movie, television and digital gaming entertainment operations, including the operations of Hasbro Studios and Backflip as well as engages in the out-licensing of our trademarks, characters and other brand and intellectual property rights to third parties for non-competing products. Our Global Operations segment is responsible for arranging product manufacturing and sourcing for the U.S. and Canada and International segments. Financial information with respect to our segments and geographic areas is included in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The following is a discussion of each segment. 

U.S. and Canada This segment engages in the marketing and sale of our products in the United States and Canada. The U.S. and Canada segment promotes our brands through innovation and reinvention of toys and games. This is accomplished through introducing new products and initiatives driven by consumer and marketplace insights and leveraging opportunistic toy and game lines and licenses. This strategy leverages efforts to increase consumer awareness of the Company&#146;s brands through entertainment experiences, including motion pictures and television programming. 

International The International segment engages in the marketing and sale of our product categories to retailers and wholesalers in most countries in Europe, Latin and South America, and the Asia Pacific region and through distributors in those countries where we have no direct presence. We have offices in more than 35 countries contributing to sales in more than 120 countries. 

In addition to growing brands and leveraging opportunistic toy lines and licenses, we seek to grow our international business by continuing to opportunistically expand into emerging markets in Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin and South America. Emerging markets are an area of high priority for us as we believe they offer greater opportunities for revenue growth than developed markets. Key emerging markets include Russia, Brazil and the People&#146;s Republic of China (&#147;China&#148;) and, during 2015, we opened offices in South Africa and Thailand. Net revenues from emerging markets represented 14% of our total consolidated net revenues in 2015. In 2015, net revenues from emerging markets decreased 9%, primarily due to a challenging foreign currency environment whereas 2014 and 2013 net revenues in emerging markets grew 20% and 25%, respectively. The strengthening of 

&#160; 

the U.S. dollar had a significant impact on the International segment during 2015. The U.S. dollar strengthened against nearly all of our major selling currencies, including the Brazilian Real, Euro, Mexican Peso and Russian Ruble. The negative impact from foreign currency translation on International segment net revenues for 2015 and 2014 was $379.4 million and $87.7 million, respectively. Furthermore, absent the negative impact of foreign currency, net revenues from emerging markets grew approximately 15%. Financial information with respect to foreign currency risk management is included in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Entertainment and Licensing Our Entertainment and Licensing segment includes our consumer products licensing, digital gaming, television and movie entertainment operations. 

Our consumer products licensing category seeks to promote our brands through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to third parties for promotional and merchandising uses in businesses which do not compete directly with our own product offerings, such as apparel, publishing, home goods and electronics, or in certain situations, to utilize them for toy products where we consider the out-licensing of brands to be more effective. 

Our digital gaming business seeks to promote our brands largely through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to a number of partners who develop and offer digital games for play on mobile devices, personal computers, and video game consoles based on those brands. We have a 70% majority ownership in Backflip, a mobile game developer, as we seek to complement the aforementioned out-licensing with the development of internal digital gaming resources. Backflip&#146;s product offerings include games for tablets and mobile devices, including the DRAGONVALE game. Backflip intends to continue focusing on its existing game titles, particularly DRAGONVALE, and to launch new games, including game offerings based on Hasbro brands. To further extend its brands into digital media and gaming, the Company also out-licenses its properties to a number of partners who develop and offer digital games and other gaming experiences based on those brands. The Company has digital gaming relationships with Electronic Arts Inc., Activision, Ubisoft and others. Lastly, we also license our brands to third parties engaged in other forms of gaming, including Scientific Games Corporation. 

Major motion pictures and television programming based on our owned and controlled brands provide both immersive storytelling and the ability for our consumers to experience these properties in a different format, which we believe can result in increased product sales, royalty revenues, and overall brand awareness. To a lesser extent, we can also earn revenue from our participation in the financial results of motion pictures and related home entertainment releases and through the distribution of television programming. Revenue from toy and game product sales is a component of the U.S. and Canada and International segments, while royalty revenues, including revenues earned from movies and television programming, is included in the Entertainment and Licensing segment. 

Global Operations Our Global Operations segment sources production of our toy and game products. Through August 2015, the Company owned and operated manufacturing facilities in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland which predominantly produced game products. These facilities were sold to Cartamundi NV (&#147;Cartamundi&#148;) on August 31, 2015. Cartamundi will continue to manufacture game products for us under a manufacturing agreement. Sourcing for our other production is done through unrelated third party manufacturers in various Far East countries, principally China, using a Hong Kong based wholly-owned subsidiary operation for quality control and order coordination purposes. See &#147;Manufacturing and Importing&#148; below for more details concerning overseas manufacturing and sourcing. 

Other Information To further extend our range of products in the various segments of our business, we sell a portion of our toy and game products to retailers on a direct import basis from the Far East. These sales are reflected in the revenue of the related segment where the customer is geographically located. 

Certain of our products are licensed to other companies for sale in selected countries where we do not otherwise have a direct business presence. 

&#160; 

Each of our four product categories, namely boys, games, girls and preschool, generate greater than 10% of our net revenues. For more information, including the amount of net revenues attributable to each of our four product categories, see note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Working Capital Requirements 

Our working capital needs are financed through cash generated from operations, primarily through the sale of toys and games and secondarily through our consumer products licensing operations, and, when necessary, proceeds from short-term borrowings. 

Our customer order patterns may vary from year to year largely due to fluctuations in the degree of consumer acceptance of product lines, product availability, marketing strategies and inventory policies of retailers, the dates of theatrical releases of major motion pictures for which we offer products, and changes in overall economic conditions. As such, a disproportionate volume of our net revenues are earned during the third and fourth quarters leading up to the retail industry&#146;s holiday selling season, including Christmas. As a result, comparisons of unshipped orders on any date with those at the same date in the prior year are not necessarily indicative of our sales for that year. Moreover, quick response, or just-in-time, inventory management practices result in a significant proportion of orders being placed for immediate delivery. Although the Company may receive orders from customers in advance, it is general industry practice that these orders are subject to amendment or cancellation by customers prior to shipment and, as such, the Company does not believe that these unshipped orders, at any given date, are indicative of future sales. We expect that retailers will continue to follow this strategy. As such, our business generally earns more revenue in the second half of the year compared to the first half. In 2015, the second half of the year accounted for approximately 66% of full year revenues with the third and fourth quarters each accounting for 33% of full year net revenues. The types of programs that we plan to employ to promote sales in 2016 are substantially the same as those we employed in 2015 and in prior years. 

Historically, we commit to the majority of our inventory production and advertising and marketing expenditures for a given year prior to the peak fourth quarter retail selling season. Our accounts receivable increase during the third and fourth quarter as customers increase their purchases to meet expected consumer demand in the holiday season. Due to the concentrated timeframe of this selling period, payments for these accounts receivable are generally not due until later in the fourth quarter or early in the first quarter of the subsequent year. The timing difference between expenses paid and revenues collected sometimes makes it necessary for us to borrow varying amounts during the year. During 2015, we utilized cash from our operations, borrowings under our commercial paper program and uncommitted lines of credit to meet our cash flow requirements. 

Product Development and Royalties 

Our success is dependent on continuous innovation in our branded-play and entertainment offerings and requires continued development of new brands and products alongside the redesign of existing products to drive consumer interest and market acceptance. Our toy and game products are developed by a global development function, the costs of which are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we incurred expenses of $242.9 million, $222.6 million and $207.6 million, respectively, on activities related to the development, design and engineering of new products and their packaging (including products brought to us by independent designers) and on the improvement or modification of ongoing products. Much of this work is performed by our internal staff of designers, artists, model makers and engineers. 

In addition to the design and development work performed by our own staff, we deal with a number of independent toy and game designers for whose designs and ideas we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Rights to such designs and ideas, when acquired by us, are usually exclusive and the agreements require us to pay the designer a royalty on our net sales of the item. These designer royalty agreements, in some cases, also provide for advance royalties and minimum guarantees. 

&#160; 

We also produce a number of toys and games under trademarks and copyrights utilizing the names or likenesses of characters from movies, television shows and other entertainment media, for whose rights we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Licensing fees for these rights are generally paid as a royalty on our net sales of the item. Licenses for the use of characters are generally exclusive for specific products or product lines in specified territories. In many instances, advance royalties and minimum guarantees are required by these license agreements. 

In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we incurred $379.2 million, $305.3 million and $338.9 million, respectively, of royalty expense. In 2013, royalty expense included $63.8 million related to the settlement of an arbitration award for a dispute between the Company and an inventor, as well as costs related to the amendment of the Company&#146;s license agreement with Zynga. Our royalty expense in any given year may also vary depending upon the timing of movie releases and other entertainment media. 

Marketing and Sales 

While our global development function focuses on brand and product innovation and re-invention, our global marketing function establishes brand direction and messaging and assists the selling entities in establishing local marketing programs. The global marketing group works cross-functionally with the global development function to deliver unified, brand-specific points of view. The costs of this group are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. In addition to the global marketing function, our local selling entities employ sales and marketing functions responsible for local market activities and execution. 

Our products are sold globally to a broad spectrum of customers, including wholesalers, distributors, chain stores, discount stores, drug stores, mail order houses, catalog stores, department stores and other traditional retailers, large and small, as well as internet-based &#147;e-tailers.&#148; Our own sales forces account for the majority of sales of our products with remaining sales generated by independent distributors who, for the most part, sell our products in areas of the world where we do not otherwise maintain a direct presence. Notwithstanding our thousands of customers, the majority of our sales are to large chain stores, distributors and wholesalers. Customer concentration provides us with certain benefits, such as potentially more efficient product distribution practices and other reductions in costs of sales and distribution; however, customer concentration can also create additional risks for our business. These risks can create potential detriments to our business resulting from the financial difficulties of our major customers which could lead to reductions in sales or unfavorable changes in our business relationships with one, or more, of our major customers. Customer concentration may also decrease the prices we are able to obtain for some of our products and reduce the number of products we would otherwise be able to bring to market. During 2015, net revenues from our top five customers accounted for approximately 39% of our consolidated global net revenues, including our three largest customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Toys &#147;R&#148; Us, Inc. and Target Corporation who represented 16%, 9% and 9%, respectively, of consolidated global net revenues. In the U.S. and Canada segment, approximately 59% of our net revenues were derived from these top three customers. 

We advertise many of our toy and game products extensively on television and through digital marketing and advertising of our brands. Products are strategically cross-promoted by spotlighting specific products alongside related offerings in a manner that promotes the sale of not only the selected item, but also those complementary products. In addition to those advertising initiatives, Hasbro Studios produces entertainment based primarily on our brands which appears on Discovery Family Channel and other major networks globally as well as on various other digital platforms, such as Netflix and iTunes. We also introduce many of our new products to major customers within one to two years leading up to their year of retail introduction. We generally showcase certain new products in New York City at the time of the American International Toy Fair in February, as well as at other international toy shows, including in Hong Kong and Nuremburg, Germany. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we incurred $409.4 million, $420.3 million and $398.1 million, respectively, in expense related to advertising and promotional programs. 

Manufacturing and Importing 

During 2015 substantially all of our products were manufactured in third party facilities in the Far East, primarily China, as well as in two previously owned facilities located in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and 

&#160; 

Waterford, Ireland. These facilities were owned by the Company through August 2015, at which point they were sold to Cartamundi, who will continue to manufacture game products for us under a manufacturing agreement. 

We believe that the manufacturing capacity of our third party manufacturers, as well as the supply of components, accessories and completed products which we purchase from unaffiliated manufacturers, are adequate to meet the anticipated demand in 2016 for our products. Our reliance on designated external sources of manufacturing could be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply for our products, should such changes be necessary or desirable. However, if we were to be prevented from obtaining products from a substantial number of our current Far East suppliers due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, our operations and our ability to obtain products would be severely disrupted while alternative sources of product were secured and production shifted to those new sources. The imposition of trade sanctions by the United States or the European Union against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of &#147;normal trade relations&#148; status with, China, or other factors which increase the cost of manufacturing in China, such as higher Chinese labor costs or an appreciation in the Chinese Yuan, could significantly disrupt our operations and/or significantly increase the cost of the products which are manufactured in China and imported into other markets. 

Most of our products are manufactured from basic raw materials such as plastic, paper and cardboard, although certain products also make use of electronic components. All of these materials are readily available but may be subject to significant fluctuations in price. There are certain chemicals (including phthalates and BPA) that national, state and local governments have restricted or are seeking to restrict or limit the use of; however, we do not believe these restrictions have or will materially impact our business. We generally enter into agreements with suppliers at the beginning of a fiscal year that establish prices for that year. However, significant volatility in the prices of any of these materials may require renegotiation with our suppliers during the year. 

The manufacturing processes of our vendors include injection molding, blow molding, spray painting, printing, box making and assembly. The countries of the Far East, particularly China, constitute the largest manufacturing center of toys in the world and the substantial majority of our toy products are manufactured in China. The 1996 implementation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade reduced or eliminated customs duties on many of the products imported by us. 

Competition 

We are a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and games and other family entertainment offerings, but our business is highly competitive. We compete with several large toy and game companies in our product categories, as well as many smaller United States and international toy and game designers, manufacturers and marketers. We also compete with other companies that offer branded entertainment specific to children and their families. Competition is based primarily on meeting consumer entertainment preferences and on the quality and play value of our products. To a lesser extent, competition is also based on product pricing. In entertainment, Hasbro Studios and Discovery Family Channel compete with other children&#146;s and family television networks and entertainment producers, such as Nickelodeon, Cartoon Network and Disney Channel, for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution. 

In addition to contending with competition from other toy and game and branded-play entertainment companies, we contend with the phenomenon that children are increasingly sophisticated and have been moving away from traditional toys and games at a younger age. Thereby, the variety of product and entertainment offerings available for children has expanded and product life cycles have shortened as children move on to more sophisticated offerings at younger ages. This has been referred to as &#147;children getting older younger&#148; but may also be referred to as developmental compression. As a result, our products not only compete with those offerings produced by other toy and game manufacturers and companies offering branded family entertainment, we also compete, particularly in meeting the demands of older children, with entertainment offerings of many technology companies, such as makers of tablets, mobile devices, video games and other consumer electronic products. 

The volatility in consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment and low barriers to entry as well as the emergence of new technologies continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups to develop products that compete with our entertainment and toy and game offerings. 

&#160; 

Employees 

At December 27, 2015, we employed approximately 5,000 persons worldwide, approximately 2,500 of whom were located in the United States. 

Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents 

We seek to protect our products, for the most part, and in as many countries as practical, through registered trademarks, copyrights and patents to the extent that such protection is available, cost effective, and meaningful. The loss of such rights concerning any particular product is unlikely to result in significant harm to our business, although the loss of such protection for a number of significant items might have such an effect. 

Government Regulation 

Our toy and game products sold in the United States are subject to the provisions of The Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, (as amended, the &#147;CPSA&#148;), The Federal Hazardous Substances Act (the &#147;FHSA&#148;), The Flammable Fabrics Act (the &#147;FFA&#148;), and the regulations promulgated thereunder. In addition, a few of our products, such as the food mixes for our EASY-BAKE ovens, are also subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration. 

The CPSA empowers the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the &#147;CPSC&#148;) to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including the formulation and implementation of regulations and uniform safety standards. The CPSC has the authority to seek to declare a product &#147;a banned hazardous substance&#148; under the CPSA and to ban it from commerce. The CPSC can file an action to seize and condemn an &#147;imminently hazardous consumer product&#148; under the CPSA and may also order equitable remedies such as recall, replacement, repair or refund for the product. The FHSA provides for the repurchase by the manufacturer of articles that are banned. 

Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in many international markets including Canada, Australia and Europe. We utilize independent third party laboratories that employ testing and other procedures intended to maintain compliance with the CPSA, the FHSA, the FFA, other applicable domestic and international product standards, and our own standards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that our products are or will be hazard free. Any material product recall or other safety issue impacting our product could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, depending on the product and scope of the recall, could damage our reputation and could negatively affect sales of our other products as well. 

The Children&#146;s Television Act of 1990 and the rules promulgated thereunder by the United States Federal Communications Commission, the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, as well as the laws of certain other countries, also place limitations on television commercials during children&#146;s programming and on advertising in other forms to children, and on the collection of information from children, such as restrictions on collecting information from children under the age of thirteen subject to the provisions of the Children&#146;s Online Privacy Protection Act. 

We maintain programs to comply with various United States federal, state, local and international requirements relating to the environment, health, safety and other matters. 

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas 

The information required by this item is included in note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 

&#160; 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following persons are the executive officers of the Company. Such executive officers are elected annually. The position(s) and office(s) listed below are the principal position(s) and office(s) held by such persons with the Company. The persons listed below generally also serve as officers and directors of certain of the Company&#146;s various subsidiaries at the request and convenience of the Company. 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Age &#160; &#160; Position and Office Held 

&#160; Period Serving in Current Position &#160; Brian D. Goldner(1) 

&#160; &#160; 52 &#160; &#160; Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer &#160; &#160; Since 2015 &#160; Deborah M. Thomas(2) 

&#160; &#160; 52 &#160; &#160; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer &#160; &#160; Since 2013 &#160; Duncan J. Billing(3) 

&#160; &#160; 57 &#160; &#160; Executive Vice President, Chief Global Operations and Business Development Officer &#160; &#160; Since 2014 &#160; Barbara Finigan(4) 

&#160; &#160; 54 &#160; &#160; Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary &#160; &#160; Since 2014 &#160; John A. Frascotti(5) 

&#160; &#160; 55 &#160; &#160; President, Hasbro Brands &#160; &#160; Since 2014 &#160; Wiebe Tinga(6) 

&#160; &#160; 55 &#160; &#160; Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer &#160; &#160; Since 2013 &#160; Martin R. Trueb 

&#160; &#160; 63 &#160; &#160; Senior Vice President and Treasurer &#160; &#160; Since 1997 &#160; &#160;

(1) Prior thereto, President and Chief Executive Officer from 2008 to 2015. 

(2) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2013. 

(3) Prior thereto, Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer from 2013 to 2014; prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Global Chief Development Officer from 2008 to 2013. 

(4) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary from 2010 to 2014. 

(5) Prior thereto, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from 2013 to 2014; prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer from 2008 to 2013. 

(6) Prior thereto, President, North America from 2012 to 2013; prior thereto, President, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets from 2006 to 2012. 

Availability of Information 

Our internet address is http://www.hasbro.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, available free of charge on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

&#160;

