 Item 1. 

Business 

Introduction 

Our vision is to enable customer leadership, better and faster than our competition, through the creation, innovation and manufacture of graphite and carbon material science-based solutions. We have over 125 years of experience in the research and development of graphite and carbon-based solutions and our intellectual property portfolio is extensive. Our business was founded in 1886 by the National Carbon Company. 

We are a leading manufacturer of a broad range of high quality graphite electrodes, products essential to the production of electric arc furnace (&#8220;EAF&#8221;) steel and various other ferrous and nonferrous metals. We also produce needle coke products, which are the primary raw material needed in the manufacture of graphite electrodes. We also manufacture carbon, graphite, and semi-graphite refractory products, which protect the walls of blast furnaces and submerged arc furnaces. We are one of the leading manufacturers of high quality flexible graphite products, enabling thermal management solutions for the electronics industry. We are one of the largest manufacturers and providers of advanced graphite and carbon materials used in the transportation, solar and oil and gas exploration industries.We design, manufacture and test advanced composites used in many applications including ultra-light-weight thermal protection, high-strength heat shields and various other components. 

We currently manufacture our products in 16 manufacturing facilities strategically located on four continents. We believe our Industrial Materials business has the largest manufacturing capacity and the lowest manufacturing cost structure of all of our major competitors and delivers the highest-level quality products. We currently have the operating capability, depending on product demand and mix, to manufacture approximately 195,000 metric tons of graphite electrodes. Beginning in 2013 and continuing through 2015, we announced and implemented rationalization plans designed to significantly improve our competitiveness, allow us to better serve customers and position our Industrial Materials and Engineered Solutions businesses for success. As a result we have reduced our manufacturing facilities in both businesses, reduced graphite electrode capacity and exited certain product lines in the Engineered Solutions business. Additionally we initiated changes to the Company&#8217;s operating and management structure in order to streamline, simplify and decentralize the organization, resulting in savings within our corporate functions. These strategic initiatives addressed three key areas: profitability, cash flow and future growth. 

We hold approximately 629 &#32;issued and pending patent applications and have been the recipient of eight R&#38;D 100 Awards in the past 12 years. Our technological capabilities include developing products with superior thermal, electrical and physical characteristics that provide a differentiated advantage. 

On August 15, 2015, GrafTech became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Brookfield Asset Management Inc. through a tender offer to our shareholders and subsequent merger transaction. Brookfield Asset Management is an experienced operator of industrial, natural resource and other tangible asset businesses. This transaction has provided us with a stable equity partner with experience in cyclical capital intensive industries. 

Products. &#32;We have seven major product categories: graphite electrodes, refractory products, needle coke products, advanced graphite materials, advanced composite materials, advanced electronics technologies, and advanced materials. 

Reportable Segments. &#32;Our businesses are reported in the following reportable segments: Industrial Materials, which include graphite electrodes, refractory products and needle coke products; and Engineered Solutions, which includes advanced graphite materials, advanced composite materials, advanced electronics technologies and advanced materials. 

Industrial Materials. &#32;Our Industrial Materials segment manufactures and delivers high quality graphite electrodes, refractory products and needle coke products. Electrodes are key components of the conductive power systems used to produce steel and non-ferrous metals. Approximately 75% of our graphite electrodes sold are consumed in the EAF steel melting process, the steel making technology used by all &#8220;mini-mills,&#8221; typically at a rate of one graphite electrode every eight to ten operating hours. We believe that mini-mills constitute the higher long-term growth sector of the steel industry and that there is currently no commercially viable substitute for graphite electrodes in EAF steel making. The remaining approximately 25% of electrodes sold are primarily used in various other ferrous and non-ferrous melting applications, including steel refining (ladle furnace operations for both EAF and basic oxygen furnace steel production), fused materials, chemical processing, and alloy metals. 

GrafTech is also a leading global supplier of carbon, semi-graphitic and graphite refractory hearth linings for blast and submerged arc furnaces used to produce iron and ferroalloys. Carbon and graphite refractory products are used to protect the walls and bottoms of these furnaces due to their ability to withstand extreme conditions, thermally 

&#32; 

and mechanically. Among the major refractory product suppliers, GrafTech has one of the most complete offerings, including a full range of brick, block, ramming paste, cement and grout products. 

Additionally, through our Seadrift subsidiary, we are a producer of petroleum needle coke. Needle coke is the key raw material in the manufacture of the graphite electrodes used in melting operations. Petroleum needle coke, a crystalline form of carbon derived from decant oil, is used in the production of graphite electrodes. Our Needle coke production allows us to be the only vertically integrated graphite electrode manufacturer. We believe that Seadrift is the world's second largest petroleum-based needle coke producer and &#32; assuming normal annual maintenance, a product mix of only normal premium petroleum needle coke production and related by-products, the annual capacity is approximately 140,000 metric tons. Seadrift currently provides a substantial portion of our needle coke requirements. 

Engineered Solutions. &#32;The Engineered Solutions segment includes advanced graphite materials, advanced composite materials, advanced electronics technologies and advanced materials. Advanced graphite materials are highly engineered synthetic graphite products used in many areas due to their unique properties and our ability to tailor them to specific solutions. These products are used in transportation, alternative energy, metallurgical, chemical, oil and gas exploration and various other industries. Advanced composite materials are highly engineered carbon products that are woven into various shapes, primarily to support the aerospace and defense industries. Advanced electronics technologies products consist of electronic thermal management solutions, fuel cell components, and sealing materials. Advanced materials use carbon and graphite powders as components or additives in a variety of industries, including lithium ion batteries, metallurgical processing, fuel cell components and polymer additives. 

Industrial Materials Segment 

Our Industrial Materials segment, which had net sales of $909 million &#32;in 2013 , $840 million &#32;in 2014 &#32;and $535 million in 2015 &#32;manufactures and delivers high quality graphite electrodes, refractory products and needle coke products, as well as provides customer technical services. Industrial Materials sales represented approximately 82%, of consolidated net sales in 2013 &#32;and 78% in 2014 , and 2015 . We estimate that the worldwide sales for products serviced by our Industrial Materials segment was approximately $5 billion in 2014 and approximately $3.5 billion in 2015. The decline in worldwide sales is primarily the result of lower prices and volumes driven primarily by decreased EAF steel production. This decrease is caused by increased imports to the markets we serve and increased blast furnace steel production as iron ore prices have fallen. 

Graphite Electrode Products . &#32;Graphite electrodes are consumed primarily in EAF steel production, the steel making technology used by all &#8220;mini-mills.&#8221; Graphite electrodes are also consumed in the refining of steel in ladle furnaces and in other smelting processes such as production of titanium dioxide. 

Electrodes act as conductors of electricity in the furnace, generating sufficient heat to melt scrap metal, iron ore or other raw materials used to produce steel or other metals. The electrodes are consumed in the course of that production. 

Electric arc furnaces operate using either alternating electric current or direct electric current. The vast majority of electric arc furnaces use alternating current. Each of these alternating current furnaces typically uses nine electrodes (in three columns of three electrodes each) at one time. The other electric arc furnaces, which use direct current, typically use one column of three electrodes. The size of the electrodes varies depending on the size of the furnace, the size of the furnace&#8217;s electric transformer and the planned productivity of the furnace. In a typical furnace using alternating current and operating at a typical number of production cycles per day, one of the nine electrodes is fully consumed (requiring the addition of a new electrode), on average, every eight to ten operating hours. The actual rate of consumption and addition of electrodes for a particular furnace depends primarily on the efficiency and productivity of the furnace. Therefore, demand for graphite electrodes is directly related to the amount and efficiency of EAF steel production. 

EAF steel production requires significant heat (as high as 5,000&#176; F) to melt the raw materials in the furnace, primarily scrap metal. Heat is generated as electricity (as much as 150,000 amps) passes through the electrodes and creates an electric arc between the electrodes and the raw materials. 

Graphite electrodes are currently the only known commercially available products that have the high levels of electrical conductivity and the capability of sustaining the high levels of heat generated in an electric arc furnace producing steel. Therefore, graphite electrodes are essential to the production of steel in electric arc furnaces. We believe there is currently no commercially viable substitute for graphite electrodes in EAF steel making. We estimate that, on average, the cost of graphite electrodes represents about 2% of the total cost of producing steel in a typical electric arc furnace. 

&#32; 

EAF steel production was estimated to be approximately 398 million metric tons in 2015, representing approximately 25% of the world&#8217;s steel production. The World Steel Association's utilization rate for the total steel market was 73% in 2014 and 70% in 2015. EAF steel capacity utilization rates typically follow the trends of the overall steel industry, however recently blast furnace utilization has increased to the detriment of EAF production as iron ore and coal prices have fallen faster than the price of scrap steel. 

Relationship Between Graphite Electrode Demand and EAF Steel Production. &#32;The improved efficiency of electric arc furnaces has resulted in a decrease in the average rate of consumption of graphite electrodes per metric ton of steel produced in electric arc furnaces (called &#8220;specific consumption&#8221;). We estimate that the average EAF melter specific consumption is approximately 1.7 kilograms of graphite electrodes per metric ton produced. 

Over the long term, specific consumption will continue to decrease at a gradual pace, as the EAF steel makers investment cost (relative to the benefits) increases to achieve further efficiencies in specific consumption. Another contributing factor is the ongoing electrode quality improvements of graphite electrode manufacturers. 

We further believe that the rate of decline in the future will be impacted by the addition of modern EAF steel making capacity which tends to have lower specific consumption than older electric arc furnaces. To the extent that this new capacity replaces old capacity, it has the effect of accelerating the reduction in industry wide specific consumption due to the efficiency of new electric arc furnaces relative to the old. However, to the extent that this new capacity increases industry wide EAF steel production capacity and that capacity is utilized, it creates additional demand for graphite electrodes. 

Over the long term, graphite electrode demand is estimated to grow at an average annual net growth rate of approximately 1%-2%, based on the anticipated growth of EAF steel production (average historical growth rate of 1%-2%), partially offset by the decline in future specific consumption. 

Production Capacity . We believe that the worldwide total graphite electrode manufacturing capacity was approximately 1.94 million metric tons for 2013, 1.88 million metric tons for 2014 and approximately 1.85 million metric tons for 2015. We believe that the graphite electrode industry manufacturing capacity utilization rate worldwide was approximately 70% for 2014 and 65% for 2015 . We routinely update our estimates as more information, which can vary, becomes available, as stated capacities in some cases are effective capacity adjusted for production yields and product mix. 

We have the capability, depending on product demand and mix, to manufacture approximately 195,000 metric tons of graphite electrodes during 2015. This production capacity is down approximately 60,000 metric tons from previous years due to our rationalization initiatives. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for a discussion on these rationalization activities. As a result of our acquisition of Seadrift in November 2010, our graphite electrode production is vertically integrated. Seadrift currently provides a substantial portion of our needle coke requirements. 

Refractory Products. &#32;&#32;We manufacture carbon and semi-graphite, HotPressed &#8482; &#32;refractory bricks, as well as other &#32; graphite and carbon refractory blocks, all of which are used primarily for their durability in very demanding high temperature melting environments. Common applications are in blast furnaces and submerged arc furnaces for ferroalloy production include cooling courses in the hearth bottoms for heat distribution and removal, backup linings in hearth walls for improved heat transfer and lintels over copper coding plates where a single brick cannot span the cooling plate. Our refractories are especially suitable for the lower part of these furnaces, where refractory performance is the most critical to ensure high productivity and long campaign lives. 

In manufacturing the HotPressed &#8482; &#32;bricks, GrafTech uses a proprietary carbon making process. The raw material is heated in brick sized molds and high pressure is applied simultaneously. This results in bricks with very competitive properties for these melting applications produced in only minutes compared to the month required in the traditional block process. We believe that Graftech refractory solutions offer reliability and a safer working environment for iron and ferroalloy makers all around the world. 

Petroleum Needle Coke and Coke Products. &#32;We produce petroleum needle coke. Petroleum needle coke, a crystalline form of carbon derived from decant oil, is used primarily in the production of graphite electrodes. We are one of three petroleum needle coke producers in the world, and this backward integration reduces our reliance on other suppliers. 

Needle coke is the key raw material in the manufacture of graphite electrodes which are consumed in EAF steel production. Graphite electrode producers combine petroleum or coal tar (&#8220;pitch&#8221;) needle coke with binders and other ingredients to form graphite electrodes. Petroleum and pitch needle coke, relative to other varieties of coke, are distinguished by their needle-like structure and their quality, which is measured by the presence of impurities, principally sulfur, nitrogen and ash. The needle-like structure of petroleum and pitch needle coke creates expansion along the length of the electrode, rather than the width, which reduces the likelihood of fractures. Impurities reduce quality 

&#32; 

because they increase the coefficient of thermal expansion and electrical resistivity of the graphite electrode, which can lead to uneven expansion and a build-up of heat and cause the graphite electrode to oxidize rapidly and break. Petroleum and pitch needle coke are typically low in these impurities. In order to minimize fractures caused by disproportionate expansion over the width of an electrode, and minimize the effect of impurities, large-diameter graphite electrodes (18 inches to 32 inches) employed in high-intensity electric arc furnace applications are comprised almost exclusively of petroleum and pitch needle coke. 

Engineered Solutions Segment 

&#32;Our Engineered Solutions segment had sales of $257.2 million &#32;in 2013 , $245.2 million &#32;in 2014 &#32;and $151.5 million in 2015 . Engineered Solutions represented approximately 22% of consolidated net sales for 2013, 2014 and 2015. We estimate that the addressable worldwide demand for Engineered Solutions products was $2,300 million in 2013, $2,400 million in 2014 and $2,800 million in 2015. 

Advanced Graphite Materials. We manufacture extruded and molded graphite blocks weighing up to ten metric tons and machined graphite parts used in many applications including metallurgy, high-temperature industrial, and alternative energy applications. In addition, we produce a line of high temperature (&#62; 1200C) insulation for induction furnaces, high temperature vacuum furnaces, direct solidification furnaces and other high temperature furnace applications. 

Advanced Composite Materials. &#32;We design, manufacture and test advanced composites used in many applications including ultra-light-weight thermal protection, high-strength heat shields and various other components. Markets include automotive, petrochemical and aerospace/defense. Fiber Materials Inc. (FMI), is recognized as an industry leader producing high-temperature materials and advanced composite products for extremely demanding applications. 

Advanced Electronics Technologies. We manufacture flexible natural and synthetic graphite products. Applications include thermal management solutions used in advanced consumer electronics (including smart phones, televisions, tablets and displays), and sealing in the automotive, petrochemical and alternative energy industries. We are one of the world's largest manufacturers of flexible natural and synthetic graphite products for these uses and applications. 

&#32; Advanced Materials. &#32;&#32;We manufacture primary synthetic graphite powders, natural flake graphite powders, coke powders, and various other carbon/graphite powder derivatives. Markets include lithium ion batteries, industrial lubricants, hot metal forming lubricants and conductive polymer fillers. &#160; 

Business Strategies 

We believe that, by growing our revenues, successfully implementing LEAN initiatives, and maximizing our cash flows, we will deliver enhanced financial performance. We believe this strategy will position us to capitalize on growth opportunities that may arise. We have transformed our operations, building competitive advantages to enable us to compete successfully in our major product lines, to realize enhanced performance as economic conditions improve and to exploit growth opportunities from our intellectual property portfolio. Our business strategies are designed to expand upon our competitive advantages by: 

Leveraging Our Unique Global Manufacturing Network. &#32;We believe that our global manufacturing network, our backward integration and our research and development provides us with competitive advantages in product quality, product costs, timely and reliable delivery, and operational flexibility to adjust product mix to meet the diverse needs of a wide range of segments and customers. 

We continue to leverage our network to seek to achieve significant increases in throughput generated from our existing assets, through productivity improvements, capital expenditures, and other efficiency initiatives. We believe we can further exploit our network by focusing our technical and customer service capabilities on: 

&#8226; 

large global customers to whom we believe we are well positioned to offer products that meet their volume, product quality, product mix, delivery reliability and service needs at competitive prices; and 

&#8226; 

customers in targeted segments where we have competitive advantages to meet identified customer needs due to the range and quality of our products, the utilization of our capacity, the value of our customer technical service and our low cost supplier advantage. 

We sell our products in every major geographic region. Sales of our products to buyers outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 75% &#32;of net sales in 2013, approximately 74% &#32;of net sales in 2014 and 2015. No single customer or group of affiliated customers accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales in 2013, 2014 or 2015. 

&#32; 

Driving Continuous Improvement with LEAN and Six Sigma . &#32;We believe a consistent focus on our customers and diligence towards aligning our processes to satisfy these customers is essential in today&#8217;s global market. We have undertaken a comprehensive launch of LEAN and Six Sigma with dedicated resources at all of our key manufacturing plants intended to create a common language and tool set centering around LEAN and Six Sigma. 

Our focus on waste reduction using a team approach creates knowledge at all levels of the organization. Concentrating on creating flow within processes enables us to capitalize on lower inventories while still maintaining a high percentage of on-time-delivery. As discussed in Note 3 of the Financial Statements, we have closed two graphite electrode manufacturing facilities to better align our production with customer demand. We reduced our inventory levels during 2013, 2014 and 2015 and plan to further reduce inventory levels in 2016. Our metric driven behavior and process of deploying corrective actions to anomalies drives us towards customer centric solutions. 

We believe we will be able to continue to leverage our stream-lined processes as a sustainable competitive advantage with shorter lead times, lower costs, higher quality products, and exceptional service. We are applying these methodologies and tools to not only our manufacturing processes; but also to our transactional and business processes such as accounts receivable, new product introduction, and cash forecasting in order to develop a high-performing value stream. 

Accelerating Commercialization of Advantaged Technologies. &#32;We believe that our technological capabilities for developing products with superior thermal, electrical and physical characteristics provide us with a potential growth opportunity as well as a competitive advantage. We exploit these capabilities and our intellectual property portfolio to accelerate development and commercialization of these technologies across all of our businesses, to improve existing products, and to develop and commercialize new products for higher growth rate areas such as electronic thermal management technologies. We have received R&#38;D Magazine&#8217;s &#32;prestigious R&#38;D 100 Award in eight of the past 12 years. The R&#38;D 100 Award honors the 100 most technologically significant products introduced into the marketplace each year. We received this Award in 2003 and 2004 for our achievements in electronic thermal management products, in 2005 for our large-diameter pinless graphite electrodes, in 2006 for GRAFOAM &#174; &#32;carbon foam, a unique high strength, light weight carbon foam, in 2007 for GrafCell &#174; &#32;flow field plates, a key component to the commercialization of fuel cells, in 2009 for our GRAFIHX tm &#32;Flexible Heat Exchangers, a graphite solution uniquely suited for radiant floor heating systems, in 2011 for the eGRAF &#174; &#32;Spreadershield SS1500&#8482; and in 2015 for 3D polymer matrix composites. 

Delivering Exceptional and Consistent Quality. &#32;We believe that our products are among the highest quality products available in our industry. We have been recognized as a preferred or certified supplier by many major steel companies and have received numerous technological innovation and other awards by industry groups, customers and others. Using our technological capabilities, we continually seek to improve the consistent overall quality of our products and services, including the performance characteristics of each product, the uniformity of the same product manufactured at different facilities and the expansion of the range of our products. We believe that improvements in overall quality create significant efficiencies and opportunities for us, provide us the opportunity to increase sales volumes and potential demand share, and create production efficiencies for our customers. 

Providing Superior Technical Service. &#32;We believe that we are recognized as one of the industry leaders in providing value added technical services to customers for our major product lines. We have a large customer technical service organization, with supporting engineering and scientific groups with more than 200 engineers and specialists around the world, and we believe that we are recognized as one of the industry leaders in providing value added technical services to customers for our major product lines. A portion of these employees assist key steel and other metals customers in furnace applications, operations and upgrades to reduce energy consumption, improve raw material costs and increase output. 

Maintaining Liquidity and Building Stockholder Value . &#32;We believe that our business strategies and our rationalization and related activities support our goal of growing revenues and operating income and maximizing the cash generated from operations. Maintaining liquidity remains a priority for us. As of December 31, 2015 , we had outstanding borrowings under our Revolving Facility of $98 million , Senior Notes with a carrying value of $268 million &#32;which will mature in 2020 with a redemption value of $300 million and cash and cash equivalents of $6.9 million . As of December 31, 2014 , we had outstanding borrowings under our Revolving Facility of $40 million , $300 million &#32;of Senior Notes, $188 million &#32;of Senior Subordinated Notes and cash and cash equivalents of $17.6 million . We had approximately $205 million &#32;of unused borrowing capacity under the Revolving facility (after considering financial covenants restrictions and the outstanding letters of credit of approximately $7.9 million ) as of December 31, 2015 . 

We continually review our assets, product lines and businesses to seek out opportunities to maximize value, through re-deployment, merger, acquisition, divestiture or other means, which could include taking on more debt or issuing more equity. We may at any time buy or sell assets, product lines or businesses. 

&#32; 

Production Planning 

We plan and source production of our products globally. We have evaluated virtually every aspect of our global supply chain, and we have redesigned and implemented changes to our global manufacturing, marketing and sales processes to leverage the strengths of our repositioned manufacturing network. Among other things, we have reduced manufacturing bottlenecks, improved product and service quality and delivery reliability, expanded our range of products, improved our global sourcing for our customers and have closed or plan to close high cost manufacturing locations when lower cost manufacturing locations can absorb or expand to meet needed production capacity. 

We deploy synchronous work process improvements at most of our manufacturing facilities. We have also installed and continue to install and upgrade proprietary process technologies at our manufacturing facilities, and use statistical process controls in our manufacturing processes for all products, and employ LEAN processing improvement techniques. 

Our global manufacturing network also helps us to minimize risks associated with dependence on any single economic region. 

Manufacturing 

Graphite Electrode Products. &#32;The manufacture of a graphite electrode takes, on average, about two months. We manufacture graphite electrodes ranging in size up to 30 inches in diameter and over 11 feet in length, and weighing as much as 5,900 pounds (2.6 metric tons). The manufacture of graphite electrodes includes six main processes: forming the electrode, baking the electrode, impregnating the electrode with a special pitch that improves the strength, rebaking the electrode, graphitizing the electrode using electric resistance furnaces, and machining. 

We currently manufacture graphite electrodes in the United States, Mexico, France and Spain and we have an electrode machining center in Brazil. During 2013, we closed our graphite electrode manufacturing facilities in Brazil and South Africa, as well as our machine shop in Russia. See Note 3 of the financial statements for further discussion. During 2016, we plan to temporarily idle our U.S. facility to align with overall demand. 

Refractory Products. &#32;Refractory bricks are manufactured in the United States, using a proprietary process. We have two primary grades of refractory products. The manufacture of a refractory block begins with the mixing and blending of the raw materials. The raw materials are fed into molds and pressed into shape. Intense heat and pressure are then applied. The bricks are cooled and then cut into the desired shapes. Our bricks are generally smaller than our competitors&#8217; products. We believe our smaller brick size creates an easier installation process compared to larger bricks. We manufacture refractory bricks into sizes up to 18 inches, although we can manufacture bricks into a multitude of sizes and shapes to meet the needs of our customers. 

Petroleum Needle Coke and Coke Products. &#32;Petroleum needle coke is produced through a manufacturing process very similar to a refinery. The production process converts decant oil into petroleum needle coke shaped in a needle-like structure. We produce petroleum needle coke at one manufacturing facility in the U.S. 

Advanced Graphite Materials . &#32;Advanced graphite materials are manufactured using processes and technologies similar to those of graphite electrodes. Manufacturing lead times range between four to twelve months for most products and depend on the specific material properties that are needed to be imparted in the final billet. After the forming, baking, impregnation, rebaking and graphitization steps, the billets are either dressed and sold as raw stock or are machined into custom parts against proprietary specifications supplied by our customers. We primarily produce advanced graphite materials in the United States and Italy. 

Advanced Composite Materials. &#32;Advanced composite materials are primarily manufactured using a 3-dimensional carbon-fiber-composite weaving process. The 3-dimensional weaving process uses two sets of yarn woven in the fabric-width and length directions (X-Y) and a third yarn woven into the fabric thickness (Axial or Z direction) using specialty weaving equipment. This process results in a volumetric solid with yarns reinforcing both the planar and axial (Z) directions. Advanced composite materials are manufactured in two U.S. facilities. 

Advanced Electronics Technologies . &#32;We use a proprietary process to convert mined natural graphite flake into expandable graphite, an intermediate product. We manufacture flexible graphite by subjecting expandable graphite to additional proprietary processing. We also produce synthetic flexible graphite through a proprietary process. Our Advanced Electronics Technologies business primarily operates two manufacturing facilities in the U.S. We believe that we operate one of the world&#8217;s most sophisticated advanced natural and synthetic flexible graphite production lines. 

Advanced Materials. &#32;We manufacture primary synthetic graphite powders, natural flake graphite powders, coke powders, and various other carbon/graphite powder derivatives. We manufacture advanced materials in both 

&#32; 

Industrial Materials and Engineered Solutions locations in the United States, France, Mexico, Spain and Italy, with some final processing done in the United States. 

Quality Standards and Maintenance. &#32;Most of our global manufacturing facilities are certified and registered to ISO 9001-2008 international quality standards and some are certified to QS 9001-2008. Advanced electronics technologies has a quality assurance system designed to meet the most stringent requirements of its customers and is ISO TS 16949:2009 certified. Maintenance at our facilities is conducted on an ongoing basis. 

Raw Materials and Suppliers . &#32;The primary raw materials for electrodes are engineered by-products and residues of the petroleum and coal industries. We use these raw materials because of their high carbon content. The primary raw materials for graphite electrodes are calcined needle coke and pitch. We purchase raw materials from a variety of sources and believe that the quality and cost of our raw materials on the whole is competitive with those available to our competitors. 

We plan to obtain a substantial portion of our 2016 needle coke requirements internally. 

Raw materials for refractory products are primarily sourced internally and from a variety of third parties. The primary raw material used in refractory products is crushed graphite. 

The primary raw material used by Seadrift to make petroleum needle coke is decant oil, a by-product of the gasoline refining process. Seadrift is not dependent on any single refinery for decant oil. While Seadrift has purchased a substantial majority of its raw material inventory from a limited number of suppliers in recent years, we believe that there is an abundant supply of suitable decant oil in the United States available from a variety of sources. 

We purchase energy from a variety of sources. Electric power used in manufacturing processes is purchased from local suppliers under contracts with pricing based on rate schedules or price indices. Our electric costs can vary significantly depending on these rates and usage. Natural gas used in manufacturing processes is purchased from local suppliers primarily under annual volume contracts with pricing based on various natural gas price indices. 

Distribution 

We deploy various demand management and inventory management techniques to seek to ensure we can meet our customers&#8217; delivery requirements while still maximizing the utilization of our production capacity. We can experience significant variation in our customers&#8217; delivery requirements as their specific needs vary and change through the year. We generally seek to maintain appropriate inventory levels, taking into account these factors as well as the significant differences in manufacturing cycle times for graphite electrode products and our customers&#8217; products. 

Finished products are usually stored at our manufacturing facilities. Limited quantities of some finished products are also stored at local warehouses around the world to meet customer needs. 

Sales and Customer Service 

We believe our product quality, our global manufacturing network and our low cost structure allow us to deliver a broad range of product offerings across various segments. We differentiate and sell the value of our product offerings, depending on the segment or specific product application, primarily based on product quality and performance, delivery reliability, price, and customer technical service. 

We price our products based on the value that we believe we deliver to our customers. Pricing may vary within any given industry, depending on the segment within that industry and the value of the offer to a specific customer. We believe that we can achieve increased competitiveness, customer demand, and profitability through our value added offerings to customers. In certain segments where the product is less differentiated, these value added offerings have less impact on our competitiveness. 

We have a large customer technical service organization, with supporting application engineering and scientific groups and more than 200 engineers and specialists around the world, and we believe that we are recognized as one of the industry leaders in providing value added technical services to customers for our major product lines. 

We deploy these selling methods and our customer technical service to address the specific needs of all products. Our direct sales force currently operates from 14 sales offices located around the world. 

Industrial Materials. &#32;We sell our Industrial Materials products primarily through our direct sales force, independent sales representatives and distributors, all of whom are trained and experienced with our products. 

Historically, our graphite electrode customers generally seek to negotiate to secure the reliable supply of their anticipated volume requirements on an annual basis, sometimes called the &#8220;graphite electrode book building 

&#32; 

process&#8221;. These orders are subject to renegotiation or adjustment to meet changing conditions. The balance of our graphite electrode customers purchase their electrodes as needed at current market prices. 

We have customer technical service personnel based around the world to assist customers to maximize their production and minimize their costs. We employ approximately 110 engineers and technicians in our Industrial Materials segment, a portion of who provide technical service and advice to key steel and other metals customers. These services relate to furnace applications and operation, as well as furnace upgrades to reduce energy consumption, improve raw material costs and increase output. 

Engineered Solutions . &#32;We sell our Engineered Solutions products primarily through our direct sales force, independent sales representatives and distributors, all of whom are trained and experienced with our products. 

The majority of our products are custom built to customer specifications after an iterative review process between the customer's engineers and our sales and technical service employees. Our sales personnel are trained and experienced with the products they sell. We provide technical service to our customers through dedicated technical service engineers who operate out of our North American facilities, European facilities and Asian offices. We believe that our technical service differentiates us from our competition and take pride in our ability to support the technical requirements of our customers. 

Technology 

We believe that we are an industry leader in graphite and carbon materials science and high temperature processing know-how and that we operate premier research, development and testing facilities for our industry. We have over 125 years of experience in the research and development of graphite and carbon technologies. Over the past several years, we have analyzed our intellectual property portfolio to identify new product opportunities with high growth potential for us, redirected research to enhance and exploit our portfolio and accelerated development of such products. 

Research and Development. &#32;We conduct our research and development both independently and in conjunction with our strategic suppliers, customers and others. We have a new dedicated innovation and technology center located near our corporate headquarters in Ohio that opened in February 2015 which focuses on all products. This new facility will place a greater emphasis on driving innovation to support new product development and focus on commercializing the next generation technologies in carbon and graphite material science. The activities at this center are integrated with the efforts of our engineers at our manufacturing facilities who are focused on improving manufacturing processes. 

Research and development expenses amounted to $10.4 million &#32;in 2013 , $14.8 million &#32;in 2014 , and $5.6 million &#32;in the period January 1 through August 14, 2015 and $2.3 million &#32;in the period August 15 through December 31, 2015. 

We believe that our technological and manufacturing strengths and capabilities provide us with a significant growth opportunity as well as a competitive advantage and are important factors in our selection by industry leaders and others as a strategic partner. Our technological capabilities include developing products with superior thermal, electrical and physical characteristics that provide a differentiating advantage. We seek to exploit these strengths and capabilities across all of our businesses, to improve existing products and to develop and commercialize new products with high growth potential. 

A significant portion of our research and development is focused on new product development, particularly Engineered Solutions for advanced energy applications such as electronic thermal management and energy storage. Other significant work focuses on advancements in electrode technology and raw material optimization. 

Intellectual Property. &#32;We believe that our intellectual property, consisting primarily of patents and proprietary know-how, provides us with competitive advantages and is important to our growth opportunities. Our intellectual property portfolio is extensive, with approximately 629 &#32;U.S. and foreign patents and published patent applications which are carbon and graphite related, which we believe is more than any of our major competitors (in the business segments in which we operate). Among our competitors, we hold one of the largest number of patents for flexible graphite, as well as the largest number of patents relating to the use of natural graphite for certain fuel cell applications. These patents expire at various times over the next two decades. 

We own, and have obtained licenses to, various trade names and trademarks used in our businesses. For example, the trade name and trademark UCAR are owned by Union Carbide Corporation (which has been acquired by Dow Chemical Company) and are licensed to us on a worldwide, exclusive and royalty-free basis until 2025. This particular license automatically renews for successive ten-year periods. It permits non-renewal by Union Carbide in 2025 or at the end of any renewal period upon five years&#8217; notice of non-renewal. 

&#32; 

We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws as well as appropriate agreements to protect our intellectual property. Among other things, we seek to protect our proprietary know-how and information, through the requirement that employees, consultants, strategic partners and others, who have access to such proprietary information and know-how, enter into confidentiality or restricted use agreements. 

Competition 

Industrial Materials. &#32;Competition in the Industrial Materials segment is intense and is based primarily on product differentiation and quality, delivery reliability, price, and customer service, depending on the segment or specific product application. 

In the most demanding product applications (that is, graphite electrodes that can operate in the largest, most productive and demanding EAF steel mills in the world), we compete primarily on product quality, delivery reliability, price and customer technical service. We believe these are prerequisite capabilities that not all producers of graphite electrodes possess or can demonstrate consistently. In this segment, we primarily compete with higher quality graphite electrode producers, although this segment of the graphite electrode market has become increasingly competitive in recent years as more graphite electrode producers have improved the quality of their offerings and become qualified suppliers to some of the largest and most sophisticated EAF customers. 

In other product applications, including ladle furnaces requiring less demanding performance and certain other ferrous and non-ferrous segments, we compete based on product differentiation, product quality and price. We believe our product quality, global manufacturing network, proximity to regional and local customers and the related lower cost structure allows us to deliver a broad range of product offerings across these various segments. 

We believe that there are no current commercially viable substitutes for graphite electrodes in EAF steel production. 

Our refractory products business competes based on product quality, useful life, and technology. We believe our proprietary hot press process and the smaller shape of our refractory bricks provides a more versatile product that is easier to install than larger refractory bricks. 

We believe that there are certain cost and technology barriers to entry into our industry, including the need for extensive product and process know-how and other intellectual property and a high initial capital investment. It also requires high quality raw material sources and a developed energy supply infrastructure. However, competing manufacturers, particularly Chinese manufacturers, have been able to expand their sales and manufacturing geographically. 

There are a number of international graphite electrode producers, including SGL Carbon A.G. (Germany), Tokai Carbon Co., Ltd. (Japan), Showa Denko Carbon K.K. (Japan), Graphite India Limited (India), HEG Limited (India), SEC Corporation Limited (Japan), Nippon Carbon Co., Ltd. (Japan), Energoprom Group (Russia), Fangda Carbon New Material Technology Co., Ltd. (China), Nantong Yangzi Carbon Co. Ltd (China), Kaifeng Carbon Co., Ltd. (China) and Sinosteel Jilin Carbon Co., Ltd (China), as well as a number of others. 

All graphite electrode manufacturers, even those without multinational manufacturing operations, are capable of, and many in fact are, supplying their products globally and are experiencing increased competition from Indian, Russian and Chinese graphite electrode manufacturers. The Chinese government has strongly supported and invested heavily in industrial expansion in recent years and continues to do so. As a part of this expansion, Chinese production of graphite electrodes has increased and the quality of the electrodes produced in China has improved. The Chinese currency policies regarding the Renminbi may provide Chinese producers with a competitive advantage with respect to exports of graphite electrodes. 

Coke represents a significant portion of the cost to produce a graphite electrode. Competition in the needle coke industry is based primarily on price, reliability and product specifications. Our Seadrift facility competes primarily on the specifications and price of its needle coke. In 2012, our Seadrift production team collaborated with scientists from our Engineered Solutions segment to develop a super-premium grade of needle coke that we have successfully commercialized. 

We believe there are currently approximately nine other firms producing needle coke. These competitors include Philips 66 (U.S.), Petrocokes Japan Limited (Japan), Mitsubishi Chemical Company, Baosteel Group (China), C-Chem Co., Ltd. (Japan), Indian Oil Company Limited (India), JX Holdings Inc. (Japan), Petrochina International Jinzhou Co., Ltd. (China) and Anshan Kaitan Thermo-Energy New Materials Co., Ltd (China). 

&#32; 

Engineered Solutions. &#32;Competitors of our Engineered Solutions segment compete on product differentiation and innovation, quality, price, delivery reliability and customer service depending on the specific demands or product applications. 

We believe we are the technology leader within the segments we participate in, and we differentiate ourselves based on our ability to provide customers with a solution that gives them one of the lowest total operational costs in meeting their product manufacturing needs. We achieve this by using our extensive product, process and application knowledge. 

We believe there are certain barriers to entry into this industry, including the need for extensive product and process know-how, intellectual property and a high initial capital investment. 

We compete with other major specialty graphite competitors who manufacture and sell on a global basis. These competitors include SGL Carbon A.G. (Germany), Mersen S.A. (France), Tokai Carbon Co., Ltd. (Japan), Toyo Tanso Co., Ltd. (Japan), SEC Carbon Ltd. (Japan), Nippon Carbon Co. Ltd (Japan) and Graphite India Ltd. (India) and several other competitors, a number of which are in China and Japan. We also compete with Panasonic Corporation (Japan), and Kaneka Corporation (Japan) in certain thermal management markets. 

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern our properties, neighboring properties, and our current and former operations worldwide. These laws and regulations relate to the presence, use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of wastes and other substances, including the packaging, labeling and transportation of products that are defined as hazardous or toxic or otherwise believed to have potential to harm the environment or human health. These laws and regulations (and the enforcement thereof) are periodically changed and are becoming increasingly stringent. We have incurred substantial costs in the past, and will continue to incur additional costs in the future, to comply with these legal requirements. 

The principal U.S. laws to which our properties and operations are subject include: 

&#8226; 

the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and similar state and local laws which regulate air emissions, water discharges and hazardous waste generation, treatment, storage, handling, transportation and disposal; 

&#8226; 

the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, and the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act of 2002, and similar state laws that provide for the reporting of, responses to and liability for, releases of hazardous substances into the environment; and 

&#8226; 

the Toxic Substances Control Act and related laws that are designed to track and control chemicals that are produced or imported into the United States and assess the risk to health and to the environment of new products at early developmental stages. 

Further, laws and regulations adopted or proposed in various states impose or may impose, as the case may be, environmental monitoring, reporting and/or remediation requirements if operations cease or property is transferred or sold. 

We believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with the federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject. We have experienced some level of regulatory scrutiny at most of our current and former facilities and, in some cases, have been required to take corrective or remedial actions and incur related costs in the past, and may experience further regulatory scrutiny, and may be required to take further corrective or remedial actions and incur additional costs, in the future. Although it has not been the case in the past, these costs could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. 

We have received and may in the future receive notices from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (&#8220;U.S. EPA&#8221;) or state environmental protection agencies, as well as claims from other parties, alleging that we are a potentially responsible party (&#8220;PRP&#8221;) under Superfund and similar state laws for past and future remediation costs at waste disposal sites and other contaminated properties. Although Superfund liability is joint and several, in general, final allocation of responsibility at sites where there are multiple PRPs is made based on each PRP's relative contribution of hazardous substances to the site. Based on information currently available to us, we believe that any potential liability we may have as a PRP will not have a material adverse effect on us. 

As a result of amendments to the Clean Air Act enacted in 1990, certain of our U.S. facilities have been or will be required to comply with new reporting requirements and standards for air emissions that have been or may be 

&#32; 

adopted by the U.S. EPA and state environmental protection agencies pursuant to new and revised regulations that have been or could be promulgated, including the possible promulgation of future maximum achievable control technology standards that apply specifically to our manufacturing sector(s), or more generally to our operation(s) or equipment. Achieving compliance with the regulations that have been promulgated to date has resulted in the need for additional administrative and engineered controls, changes to certain manufacturing processes, and increased monitoring and reporting obligations. Similar foreign laws and regulations have been or may also be adopted to establish new standards for air emissions, which may also require additional controls on our manufacturing operations outside the U.S. Based on information currently available to us, we believe that compliance with these regulations will not have a material adverse effect on us. 

As mentioned, our manufacturing operations located outside of the U.S. are also subject to their national and local laws and regulations related to environmental protection and product safety. Under the European Union's (&#8220;EU&#8221;) regulations concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (commonly referred to as &#8220;REACH&#8221;), enacted in 2007, manufacturers within the EU and importers into the EU of certain chemical substances are required to register and evaluate the potential impacts of those substances on human health and the environment. Under REACH, the continued importation into the EU, manufacture and/or use of certain chemical substances may be restricted, and manufacturers and importers of certain chemicals will be required to undertake evaluations of those substances. The requirements of REACH are being phased in over a period of years, and compliance is requiring and will continue to require expenditures and resource commitments. Based on information currently available to us, we believe that compliance with these regulations will not have a material adverse effect on us. 

International accords, foreign laws and regulations, and U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations are increasingly being enacted to address concerns about the effects that carbon dioxide (&#8220;CO2&#8221;) emissions and other identified greenhouse gases (&#8220;GHG&#8221;) may have on the environment and climate worldwide. These effects are widely referred to as Climate Change. Some members of the international community have taken actions in the past to address Climate Change issues on a global basis. In 1997, an international Kyoto Protocol set binding GHG emission reduction targets for the participating industrialized countries. Participating members of the international community continue to meet at annual meetings of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (&#8220;UNFCC&#8221;) to reach global agreements on Climate Change to replace the expired Kyoto Protocol. 

The EU Emissions Trading Scheme (&#8220;EU ETS&#8221;) enacted under the provisions of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol requires certain listed energy-intensive industries to participate in an international &#8220;cap and trade&#8221; system of GHG emission allowances. A third phase of the EU ETS started in January 2013 under Directive 2009/29/EC, which instituted a number of program changes. EU Member States brought into force the necessary laws, regulations and administrative provisions to comply with this EU Directive. Carbon and graphite manufacturing is still not a covered industry sector in the revised Annex 1 of this Directive. However, one of our European manufacturing operations was required to comply with these provisions under a more general fuel combustion category, because their combustion units met the applicability levels. The operations subject to these provisions was eligible to receive free carbon dioxide emission allowances under the member state allocation program. 

In December 2015, the 21st Conference of Parties for the UNFCC concluded with more than 190 countries adopting the Paris Agreement, a partly binding and partly voluntary agreement to cut global carbon emissions in an effort to limit the rise in global temperatures. The U.S. has pledged to achieve significant reductions in CO2 emissions by 2020. The U.S. may sign a future international Climate Change agreement and/or enact new national Climate Change legislation to reduce GHG emissions in accordance with established goals and deadlines. Such new legislation could impact our industry directly or indirectly, for example by higher energy costs. One or more of our U.S. facilities could be covered by such new legislation and we could incur additional compliance obligations and related expenses. 

In 2009, a Final Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule was issued by the U.S. EPA, which requires facilities with specified GHG sources that emit over the annual threshold quantities to monitor and report their GHG emissions annually. In addition, corporations that are large suppliers of petroleum products (including, by definition, importers and exporters that exceed the annual GHG threshold quantities) must also submit an annual activity report to the U.S. EPA. Some of our operations are covered under this Rule, and we believe that we have the necessary administrative systems in place to comply with the requirements. Under various other foreign and U.S. state regulations, we are currently required to report certain GHG emissions to the pertinent authorities. Furthermore, in December 2009, the U.S. EPA issued an &#8220;endangerment and cause or contribute finding&#8221; for GHG, under Section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, allowing it to issue new rules that directly regulate GHG emissions under the existing federal New Source Review, Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V Operating Permit programs. In May 2010, the U.S. EPA set GHG emissions thresholds to define when permits under these programs are required for new and existing industrial facilities. Under these programs, new or significantly modified facilities must also use best available control 

&#32; 

technologies to minimize GHG emissions. Therefore, we may incur future expenses to modify our air permits, implement additional administrative and engineered controls, invest in capital improvements, and/or make changes in certain manufacturing processes at our U.S. facilities to achieve compliance with these regulations or to expand our operations. 

Based on information currently available to us, we believe that compliance with international accords, U.S. and foreign laws and regulations concerning Climate Change which have been promulgated, or that could be promulgated in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on us. 

We have sold or closed a number of facilities that had operated solid waste management units on&#8209;site. In most cases where we divested the properties, we have retained ownership of on-site landfills. When our landfills were or are to be sold, we obtained or seek to obtain financial assurance we believe to be adequate to protect us from any potential future liability associated with these landfills. When we have closed landfills, we believe that we have done so in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We continue to monitor these landfills and observe any reporting obligations we may have with respect to them pursuant to applicable laws and regulations. To date, the costs associated with the retained landfills have not been, and we do not anticipate that future costs will be, material to us. 

Estimates of future costs for compliance with U.S. and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations, and for environmental liabilities, are necessarily imprecise due to numerous uncertainties, including the impact of potential new laws and regulations, the availability and application of new and diverse technologies, the extent of insurance coverage, the potential discovery of contaminated properties, or the identification of new hazardous substance disposal sites at which we may be a PRP and, in the case of sites subject to Superfund and similar state and foreign laws, the final determination of remedial requirements and the ultimate allocation of costs among the PRPs. Subject to the inherent imprecision in estimating such future costs, but taking into consideration our experience to date regarding environmental matters of a similar nature and facts currently known, we estimate that our costs and capital expenditures (in each case, before adjustment for inflation) for environmental protection regulatory compliance programs and for remedial response actions will not increase materially over the next several years. 

Furthermore, we establish accruals for environmental liabilities when it is probable that a liability has been or will be incurred, and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. We adjust the accrual as new remedial actions or other commitments are made, and when new information becomes available that changes the prior estimates previously made. 

Insurance 

We maintain insurance against civil liabilities relating to personal injuries to third parties, for loss of or damage to property, for business interruptions and for environmental matters, that provides coverage, subject to the applicable coverage limits, deductibles and retentions, and exclusions, that we believe are appropriate upon terms and conditions and for premiums that we consider fair and reasonable in the circumstances. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not incur losses beyond the limits of or outside the coverage of our insurance. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 1,921 employees (excluding contractors), a decrease of 476 employees from December 31, 2014 . A total of 434 employees were in Europe (including Russia), 564 were in Mexico and Brazil, 23 were in South Africa, 880 were in the U.S. and 20 were in the Asia Pacific region. As of December 31, 2015 , 1,065 of our employees were hourly employees. 

As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 42% of our worldwide employees were covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, which expire at various times in each of the next several years. As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 523 employees, or 27% of our employees, were covered by agreements which expire, or are subject to renegotiation, at various times through December 31, 2016. We believe that, in general, our relationships with our unions are satisfactory and that we will be able to renew or extend our collective bargaining or similar agreements on reasonable terms as they expire. We cannot assure, however, that renewed or extended agreements will be reached without a work stoppage or strike or will be reached on terms satisfactory to us. 

We have not had any material work stoppages or strikes during the past decade. 

&#32; 

