 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

CVR Partners, LP ("CVR Partners," the "Partnership," "we," "us," or "our") is a Delaware limited partnership formed by CVR Energy to own, operate and grow our nitrogen fertilizer business. Strategically located adjacent to CVR Refining's refinery in Coffeyville, Kansas, our nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facility is the only operation in North America that utilizes a petroleum coke, or pet coke, gasification process to produce nitrogen fertilizer. 

We produce and distribute nitrogen fertilizer products, which are used primarily by farmers to improve the yield and quality of their crops. Our principal products are UAN and ammonia. These products are manufactured at our facility in Coffeyville, Kansas. Our product sales are heavily weighted toward UAN and all of our products are sold on a wholesale basis. 

Our facility includes a 1,300 ton-per-day ammonia unit, a 3,000 ton-per-day UAN unit and a gasifier complex having a capacity of 89 million standard cubic feet per day of hydrogen. Our gasifier is a dual-train facility, with each gasifier able to function independently of the other, thereby providing redundancy and improving our reliability. Subsequent to the completion of the UAN expansion in February 2013, we upgrade substantially all of the ammonia we produce to higher margin UAN fertilizer, an aqueous solution of urea and ammonium nitrate which has historically commanded a premium price over ammonia. In 2015 , we produced 928.6 thousand &#32;tons of UAN and 385.4 thousand &#32;tons of ammonia. Approximately 96% &#32;of our produced ammonia tons and the majority of the purchased ammonia were upgraded into UAN. 

CVR Energy, which indirectly owns our general partner and approximately 53% &#32;of our outstanding common units, also indirectly owns the general partner and approximately 66% &#32;of the outstanding common units of CVR Refining at December 31, 2015 . CVR Refining owns and operates a complex full coking medium-sour crude oil refinery with a rated capacity of 115,000 barrels per calendar day (bpcd) in Coffeyville, Kansas, a complex crude oil refinery with a rated capacity of 70,000 bpcd in Wynnewood, Oklahoma and ancillary businesses. 

We intend to continue to expand our existing asset base and utilize the experience of our and CVR Energy's management teams to execute our growth strategy, which includes expanded production of UAN and acquiring and building additional infrastructure and production assets. 

We generated net sales of $289.2 million , $298.7 million &#32;and $323.7 million &#32;and net income of $62.0 million , $76.1 million &#32;and $118.6 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

The primary raw material feedstock utilized in our nitrogen fertilizer production process is pet coke, which is produced during the crude oil refining process. In contrast, substantially all of our nitrogen fertilizer competitors use natural gas as their primary raw material feedstock. Historically, pet coke has been less expensive than natural gas on a per ton of fertilizer produced basis. Our facility's pet coke gasification process results in a significantly higher percentage of fixed costs than a natural gas-based fertilizer plant. We currently purchase most of our pet coke from CVR Refining pursuant to a long-term agreement having an initial term that ends in 2027, subject to renewal. During the past five years, over 70% of the pet coke consumed by our plant was produced and supplied by CVR Refining&#8217;s Coffeyville, Kansas crude oil refinery. 

Pending Mergers 

On August 9, 2015, CVR Partners entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Rentech Nitrogen Partners, L.P. ("Rentech Nitrogen") and Rentech Nitrogen GP, LLC ("Rentech Nitrogen GP"), pursuant to which CVR Partners would acquire Rentech Nitrogen and Rentech Nitrogen GP by merging two newly-created direct wholly-owned subsidiaries of CVR Partners with and into those entities with Rentech Nitrogen and Rentech Nitrogen GP continuing as surviving entities and wholly-owned subsidiaries of CVR Partners (together, the &#8220;mergers&#8221;). In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board&#8217;s Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, Business Combinations , the Partnership anticipates accounting for the mergers as an acquisition of a business with CVR Partners as the acquirer. Refer to Note 1 ("Formation of the Partnership, Organization and Nature of Business") &#32;of Part II. Item 8 of this Report for further discussion of the mergers. 

Organizational Structure and Related Ownership 

The following chart illustrates the organizational structure of the Partnership as of the date of this Report. The newly created merger subsidiaries as described in Note 1 ("Formation of the Partnership, Organization and Nature of Business") &#32;of Part II. Item 8 of this Report are not included in the chart. 

Raw Material Supply 

The nitrogen fertilizer facility's primary input is pet coke. Pet coke is produced as a byproduct of a refinery's coker unit process. In order to refine heavy or sour crude oil, which are lower in cost and more prevalent than higher quality crude oil, refiners use coker units, which enables refiners to further upgrade heavy crude oil. Our fertilizer plant is located in Coffeyville, Kansas, which is part of the Midwest pet coke market. Our average daily pet coke demand from 2013 - 2015 &#32;was approximately 1,300 tons per day. 

During the past five years, over 70% of our pet coke requirements on average were supplied by CVR Refining's adjacent crude oil refinery, pursuant to a renewable long-term agreement. Historically we have obtained the remainder of our pet coke requirements from third parties such as other Midwestern refineries or pet coke brokers at spot-prices. We are party to a pet coke supply agreement with HollyFrontier Corporation. The term of this agreement ends in December 2016 . If necessary, the gasification process can be modified to operate on coal as an alternative, which provides an additional raw material source. There are significant supplies of coal within a 60-mile radius of our nitrogen fertilizer plant. 

Linde LLC ("Linde") owns, operates, and maintains the air separation plant that provides contract volumes of oxygen, nitrogen, and compressed dry air to our facility for a monthly fee. We provide and pay for all utilities required for operation of the air separation plant. The air separation plant has not experienced any long-term operating problems; however, CVR Energy maintains, for our benefit, contingent business interruption insurance with a $200.0 million &#32;limit for any interruption caused by physical damage to the air separation plant that results in a loss of production from an insured peril. The agreement with Linde provides that if our requirements for liquid or gaseous oxygen, liquid or gaseous nitrogen or clean dry air exceed specified instantaneous flow rates by at least 10%, we can solicit bids from Linde and third parties to supply our incremental product needs. We are required to provide notice to Linde of the approximate quantity of excess product that we will need and the approximate date by which we will need it. We and Linde will then jointly develop a request for proposal for soliciting bids from third parties and Linde. The bidding procedures may be limited under specified circumstances. The agreement with Linde expires in 2020. 

Although we have our own boiler that is used to create start-up steam, we also have the ability to import start-up steam for the nitrogen fertilizer plant from CVR Refining's adjacent crude oil refinery and then export steam back to the crude oil refinery once all of our units are in service. We have entered into a feedstock and shared services agreement with a subsidiary of CVR Refining, which regulates, among other things, the import and export of start-up steam between the adjacent refinery and the nitrogen fertilizer plant. Monthly charges and credits are recorded with the steam valued at the natural gas price for the month. 

Production Process 

Our nitrogen fertilizer plant was built in 2000 with two separate gasifiers to provide redundancy and reliability. It uses a gasification process, licensed from an affiliate of the General Electric Company ("General Electric"), to convert pet coke to high purity hydrogen for subsequent conversion to ammonia. The nitrogen fertilizer plant is capable of producing approximately 1,300 tons per day of ammonia. Substantially all of the ammonia produced is converted to approximately 3,000 tons per day of UAN. Typically, about 0.41 tons of ammonia are required to produce one ton of UAN. 

Pet coke is first ground and blended with water and a fluxant (a mixture of fly ash and sand) to form a slurry that is then pumped into the partial oxidation gasifier. The slurry is then contacted with oxygen from the air separation unit. Partial oxidation reactions take place and the synthesis gas, or syngas, consisting predominantly of hydrogen and carbon monoxide, is formed. The mineral residue from the slurry is a molten slag (a glasslike substance containing the metal impurities originally present in pet coke) and flows along with the syngas into a quench chamber. The syngas and slag are rapidly cooled and the syngas is separated from the slag. 

Slag becomes a byproduct of the process. The syngas is scrubbed and saturated with moisture. The syngas next flows through a shift reactor unit where the carbon monoxide in the syngas is reacted with the moisture to form hydrogen and CO2. The heat from this reaction generates saturated steam. Most of this steam along with other steam produced in the ammonia and UAN plants is used internally. The excess steam not consumed by the process can be sent to the adjacent crude oil refinery. 

After additional heat recovery, the high-pressure syngas is cooled and processed in the acid gas removal unit where carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide are removed. The syngas is then fed to a pressure swing adsorption ("PSA") unit, where the remaining impurities are extracted. The PSA unit reduces residual carbon monoxide and CO2 levels to trace levels, and the moisture-free, high-purity hydrogen is sent directly to the ammonia synthesis loop. 

The hydrogen is reacted with nitrogen from the air separation unit in the ammonia unit to form the ammonia product. A large portion of the ammonia is converted to UAN. In 2015 , we produced 928.6 thousand &#32;tons of UAN and 385.4 thousand &#32;tons 

of ammonia. Approximately 96% &#32;of our produced ammonia tons and the majority of the purchased ammonia were upgraded into UAN. 

We schedule and provide routine maintenance to our critical equipment using our own maintenance technicians. Pursuant to a technical services agreement with General Electric, which licenses the gasification technology to us, General Electric provides technical advice and technological updates from their ongoing research as well as other licensees' operating experiences. The pet coke gasification process is licensed from General Electric pursuant to a perpetual license agreement that is fully paid. The license grants us perpetual rights to use the pet coke gasification process on specified terms and conditions. 

Distribution, Sales and Marketing 

The primary geographic markets for our fertilizer products are Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa, Illinois, Colorado and Texas. We market the ammonia products to industrial and agricultural customers and the UAN products to agricultural customers. 

UAN and ammonia are distributed by truck or by railcar. If delivered by truck, products are sold on a freight-on-board basis, and freight is normally arranged by the customer. We lease and own a fleet of railcars for use in product delivery. We incur costs to maintain and repair our railcar fleet that include expenses related to regulatory inspections and repairs. For example, many of our railcars require specific regulatory inspections and repairs due on ten-year intervals. The extent and frequency of railcar fleet maintenance and repair costs are generally expected to change based partially on when regulatory inspections and repairs are due for our railcars under the relevant regulations. We operate eight rail loading and two truck loading racks for UAN. We also operate four rail loading and two truck loading racks for ammonia. 

&#32;We own all of the truck and rail loading equipment at our nitrogen fertilizer facility. We also utilize two separate UAN storage tanks and related truck and railcar load-out facilities. Each of these facilities, located in Phillipsburg and Dartmouth, Kansas, has a UAN storage tank that has a capacity of two million gallons, or approximately 10,000 tons. The Phillipsburg property that the terminal was constructed on is owned by a subsidiary of CVR Refining, which operates the terminal. The Dartmouth terminal is located on leased property owned by the Pawnee County Cooperative Association, which operates the terminal. The purpose of the UAN terminals is to collectively distribute approximately 40,000 tons of UAN fertilizer annually. 

We market agricultural products to destinations that produce strong margins. The UAN market is primarily located near the Union Pacific Railroad lines or destinations that can be supplied by truck. The ammonia market is primarily located near the Burlington Northern Santa Fe or Kansas City Southern Railroad lines or destinations that can be supplied by truck. By securing this business directly, we reduce our dependence on distributors serving the same customer base, which enables us to capture a larger margin and allows us to better control our product distribution. Most of the agricultural sales are made on a competitive spot basis. We also offer products on a prepay basis for in-season demand. The heavy in-season demand periods are spring and fall in the corn belt and summer in the wheat belt. The corn belt is the primary corn producing region of the United States, which includes Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Ohio and Wisconsin. The wheat belt is the primary wheat producing region of the United States, which includes Kansas, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota and Texas. Most of the industrial sales are spot sales. 

We often use forward sales of our fertilizer products to optimize our asset utilization, planning process and production scheduling. These sales are made by offering customers the opportunity to purchase product on a forward basis at prices and delivery dates that we propose. We use this program to varying degrees during the year and between years depending on market conditions. We have the flexibility to decrease or increase forward sales depending on our view as to whether price environments will be increasing or decreasing. Fixing the selling prices of our products months in advance of their ultimate delivery to customers typically causes our reported selling prices and margins to differ from spot market prices and margins available at the time of shipment. As of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , we had sold forward 171.6 thousand and 279.8 thousand tons of UAN at an average netback of $223 and $263 per ton over the next six months, respectively. Cash received as a result of prepayments is recognized as deferred revenue on our Consolidated Balance Sheet upon receipt, and revenue and resultant net income and EBITDA are recorded as the product is delivered. 

Customers 

We sell UAN products to retailers and distributors. In addition, we sell ammonia to agricultural and industrial customers. Some of our larger customers include Crop Production Services, Inc., Gavilon Fertilizer, LLC, Interchem, J.R. Simplot, Inc., MFA and United Suppliers, Inc. Given the nature of our business, and consistent with industry practice, we do not have long-term minimum purchase contracts with our UAN and ammonia customers. 

For the year ended December 31, 2015 , the top five UAN customers in the aggregate represented 40% &#32;of our fertilizer sales. Our top two fertilizer customers on a consolidated basis accounted for approximately 14% &#32;and 10% , respectively, of our net sales. While we do have high concentration of customers, we do not believe that the loss of any single customer would have 

a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Our business depends on significant customers, and the loss of significant customers may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions, of this Report for further discussion. 

Competition 

We have experienced and expect to continue to meet significant levels of competition from current and potential competitors, many of whom have significantly greater financial and other resources. Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Nitrogen fertilizer products are global commodities, and we face intense competition from other nitrogen fertilizer producers, of this Report for further discussion . 

Competition in our industry is dominated by price considerations. However, during the spring and fall application seasons, farming activities intensify and delivery capacity is a significant competitive factor. We maintain a large fleet of leased and owned railcars and seasonally adjust inventory to enhance our manufacturing and distribution operations. 

Our major competitors include Agrium, Inc.; Koch Nitrogen Company, LLC; Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan, Inc.; CF Industries Holdings, Inc. and Terra Nitrogen Company, LP. Domestic competition is intense due to customers' sophisticated buying tendencies and competitor strategies that focus on cost and service. We also encounter competition from producers of fertilizer products manufactured in foreign countries. In certain cases, foreign producers of fertilizer who export to the United States may be subsidized by their respective governments. 

Based on Blue Johnson &#38; Associates, Inc. data regarding total U.S. use of UAN and ammonia, we estimate that our UAN capacity in 2015 &#32;represented approximately 7% of total U.S. UAN demand and that the net ammonia produced and marketed at our facility represented less than 1% of total U.S. ammonia demand. 

Seasonality 

Because we primarily sell agricultural commodity products, our business is exposed to seasonal fluctuations in demand for nitrogen fertilizer products in the agricultural industry. As a result, we typically generate greater net sales in the first half of the calendar year, which we refer to as the planting season, and our net sales tend to be lower during the second half of each calendar year, which we refer to as the fill season. In addition, the demand for fertilizers is affected by the aggregate crop planting decisions and fertilizer application rate decisions of individual farmers who make planting decisions based largely on the prospective profitability of a harvest. The specific varieties and amounts of fertilizer they apply depend on factors like crop prices, farmers' current liquidity, soil conditions, weather patterns and the types of crops planted. 

Environmental Matters 

Our business is subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing the emission and release of hazardous substances into the environment, the treatment and discharge of waste water and the storage, handling, use and transportation of our nitrogen fertilizer products. These laws and regulations, their underlying regulatory requirements and the enforcement thereof impact us by imposing: 

&#8226; 

restrictions on operations or the need to install enhanced or additional controls; 

&#8226; 

the need to obtain and comply with permits and authorizations; 

&#8226; 

liability for the investigation and remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater at current and former facilities (if any) and off-site waste disposal locations; and 

&#8226; 

specifications for the products we market, primarily UAN and ammonia. 

Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations. Failure to comply with these permits or environmental laws and regulations generally could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions or a revocation of our permits. In addition, the laws and regulations to which we are subject are often evolving and many of them have become more stringent or have become subject to more stringent interpretation or enforcement by federal and state agencies. The ultimate impact on our business of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that our operations may change over time and certain implementing regulations for laws, such as the federal Clean Air Act, have not yet been finalized, are under governmental or judicial review or are being revised. These laws and regulations could result in increased capital, operating and compliance costs or result in delays or limits to our operations or growth while attempting to obtain required permits. 

The principal environmental risks associated with our business are outlined below. 

The Federal Clean Air Act 

The federal Clean Air Act and its implementing regulations, as well as the corresponding state laws and regulations that regulate emissions of pollutants into the air, affect us through the federal Clean Air Act's permitting requirements and emission control requirements relating to specific air pollutants, as well as the requirement to maintain a risk management program to help prevent accidental releases of certain substances. Some or all of the standards promulgated pursuant to the federal Clean Air Act, or any future promulgations of standards, may require the installation of controls or changes to our nitrogen fertilizer facility in order to comply. If new controls or changes to operations are needed, the costs could be material. These new requirements, other requirements of the federal Clean Air Act, or other presently existing or future environmental regulations could cause us to expend substantial amounts to comply and/or permit our facility to produce products that meet applicable requirements. 

The regulation of air emissions under the federal Clean Air Act requires that we obtain various construction and operating permits and incur capital expenditures for the installation of certain air pollution control devices at our operations. Various regulations specific to our operations have been implemented, such as National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants, New Source Performance Standards and New Source Review. We have incurred, and expect to continue to have to make substantial capital expenditures to attain or maintain compliance with these and other air emission regulations that have been promulgated or may be promulgated or revised in the future. 

Release Reporting 

The release of hazardous substances or extremely hazardous substances into the environment is subject to release reporting requirements under federal and state environmental laws. We periodically experience releases of hazardous or extremely hazardous substances from our equipment. Our facility periodically has excess emission events from flaring and other planned and unplanned startup, shutdown and malfunction events. Such releases are reported to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") and relevant state and local agencies. From time to time, the EPA has conducted inspections and issued information requests to us with respect to our compliance with release reporting requirements under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act. If we fail to properly report a release, or if the release violates the law or our permits, it could cause us to become the subject of a governmental enforcement action or third-party claims. Government enforcement or third-party claims relating to releases of hazardous or extremely hazardous substances could result in significant expenditures and liability. 

Greenhouse Gas Emissions 

Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Climate change laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions, of this Report for further discussion of the Greenhouse Gas ("GHG") Emissions regulations. 

Environmental Remediation 

Under CERCLA, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and related state laws, certain persons may be liable for the release or threatened release of hazardous substances. These persons can include the current owner or operator of property where a release or threatened release occurred, any persons who owned or operated the property when the release occurred, and any persons who disposed of, or arranged for the transportation or disposal of, hazardous substances at a contaminated property. Liability under CERCLA is strict, and, under certain circumstances, joint and several, so that any responsible party may be held liable for the entire cost of investigating and remediating the release of hazardous substances. As is the case with all companies engaged in similar industries, we face potential exposure from future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters, including soil and water contamination, personal injury or property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances that we manufactured, handled, used, stored, transported, spilled, disposed of or released. We cannot assure you that we will not become involved in future proceedings related to our release of hazardous or extremely hazardous substances or that, if we were held responsible for damages in any existing or future proceedings, such costs would be covered by insurance or would not be material. 

Environmental Insurance 

We are covered by CVR Energy's site pollution legal liability insurance policy with an aggregate limit of $50.0 million per pollution condition, subject to a self-insured retention of $1.0 million. The policy includes business interruption coverage, subject to a 5-day waiting period deductible. This insurance expires on March 1, 2016 and is expected to be renewed without any material changes in terms. The policy insures any location owned, leased, rented or operated by the Partnership, including our nitrogen fertilizer facility. The policy insures certain pollution conditions at, or migrating from, a covered location, certain waste transportation and disposal activities and business interruption. 

In addition to the site pollution legal liability insurance policy, we benefit from umbrella and excess casualty insurance policies maintained by CVR Energy having an aggregate and occurrence limit of $200.0 million, subject to a self-insured retention of $2.0 million. This insurance provides coverage due to named perils for claims involving pollutants where the discharge is sudden and accidental and first commenced at a specific day and time during the policy period. The casualty insurance policies, including umbrella and excess policies, expire on March 1, 2016 and are expected to be renewed or replaced by insurance policies containing materially equivalent sudden and accidental pollution coverage with no reduction in limits. 

The site pollution legal liability policy and the pollution coverage provided in the casualty insurance policies contain discovery requirements, reporting requirements, exclusions, definitions, conditions and limitations that could apply to a particular pollution claim, and there can be no assurance such claim will be adequately insured for all potential damages. 

Safety, Health and Security Matters 

We are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations related to safety, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration Act ("OSHA"), and comparable state statutes, the purpose of which are to protect the health and safety of workers. We also are subject to OSHA Process Safety Management regulations, which are designed to prevent or minimize the consequences of catastrophic releases of toxic, reactive, flammable or explosive chemicals. 

We operate a comprehensive safety, health and security program, with participation by employees at all levels of the organization. We have developed comprehensive safety programs aimed at preventing OSHA recordable incidents. Despite our efforts to achieve excellence in our safety and health performance, there can be no assurances that there will not be accidents resulting in injuries or even fatalities. We routinely audit our programs and consider improvements in our management systems. 

Process Safety Management. We maintain a process safety management program ("PSM"). This program is designed to address all aspects of OSHA guidelines for developing and maintaining a comprehensive process safety management program. We will continue to audit our programs and consider improvements in our management systems and equipment. 

Risk Management Program. We maintain an EPA risk management program. This program is similar to PSM but also includes environmental and worst case scenario protections. 

Emergency Planning and Response. We have an emergency response plan that describes the organization, responsibilities and plans for responding to emergencies in our facility. This plan is communicated to local regulatory and community groups. We have on-site warning siren systems and personal radios. We will continue to audit our programs and consider improvements in our management systems and equipment. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 149 direct employees. As of December 31, 2015 , these employees are covered by health insurance, disability and retirement plans established by CVR Energy. None of our employees are unionized, and we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. 

We also rely on the services of employees of CVR Energy and its subsidiaries in the operation of our business pursuant to a services agreement. Additionally, the Partnership's general partner manages the Partnership's operations and activities as specified in the partnership agreement and had 5 employees as of December 31, 2015 . For more information on these agreements, see Note 14 ("Related Party Transactions") &#32;to Part II. Item 8 of this Report. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.cvrpartners.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website under "Investor Relations," as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports is made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Codes of Ethics and the Charter of the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of our general partner are available on our website. These guidelines, policies and charters are also available in print without charge to any unitholder requesting them. We do not intend for information contained in our website to be part of this Report. 

Trademarks, Trade Names and Service Marks 

This Report may include our and our affiliates' trademarks, including Coffeyville Resources, the Coffeyville Resources logo, the CVR Partners, LP logo, the CVR Refining, LP logo and the CVR Energy, Inc. logo, each of which is registered or for which we are applying for federal registration with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. This Report may also contain trademarks, service marks, copyrights and trade names of other companies. 

