 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Our Company 

Overview 

We own and operate a network of full service agricultural and construction equipment stores in the United States and Europe. Based upon information provided to us by CNH Industrial N.V. or its U.S. subsidiary CNH Industrial America, LLC, collectively referred to in this Form 10-K as CNH Industrial, we are the largest retail dealer of Case IH Agriculture equipment in the world, the largest retail dealer of Case Construction equipment in North America and a major retail dealer of New Holland Agriculture and New Holland Construction equipment in the U.S. We have three primary business segments, Agriculture, Construction and International, within which we engage in four principal business activities: 

&#8226; 

new and used equipment sales; 

&#8226; 

parts sales; 

&#8226; 

repair and maintenance services; and 

&#8226; 

equipment rental and other activities. 

The agricultural equipment we sell and repair includes machinery and attachments for uses ranging from large-scale farming to home and garden purposes. The construction equipment we sell and service includes heavy construction and light industrial machinery for commercial and residential construction, road and highway construction, and mining operations. 

The new equipment and parts we sell are supplied primarily by CNH Industrial. CNH Industrial is a leading manufacturer and supplier of agricultural and construction equipment, primarily through the Case IH Agriculture, New Holland Agriculture, Case Construction and New Holland Construction brands. The used equipment for resale is acquired through trade-ins from our customers and selective purchases. We sell parts and provide in-store and on-site repair and maintenance services. We also rent equipment and provide ancillary services such as equipment transportation, Global Positioning System ("GPS") signal subscriptions, and finance and insurance products. 

We offer our customers a one-stop solution by providing equipment and parts sales, repair and maintenance services, and rental functions in each store. Our full service approach provides us with multiple points of customer contact and cross-selling opportunities. We believe our mix of equipment sales and recurring parts and service sales enables us to operate effectively throughout economic cycles. We also believe our significant scale, superior customer service, diverse and stable customer base, management reporting system and experienced management team provide us with a competitive advantage in many of our local markets. 

Throughout our 36 -year operating history we have built an extensive, geographically contiguous network of 91 stores in the U.S., including one &#32;outlet store, and 17 stores in Europe. Our Agriculture stores in the U.S. are located in Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota and include several highly productive farming regions, such as the Red River Valley in eastern North Dakota and northwestern Minnesota, certain portions of the corn belt in Iowa, eastern South Dakota and southern Minnesota, and along the Interstate-80 corridor in Nebraska, which sits on top of the Ogallala Aquifer. Our Construction stores are located in Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Our International stores are located in the European countries of Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia and Ukraine. 

We have a history of growth through acquisitions. Since January 1, 2003, we have completed 52 acquisitions consisting of 110 stores operating in 11 states and three &#32;European countries, including 37 acquisitions consisting of 79 stores completed since our initial public offering on December 11, 2007. We believe a favorable climate for dealership consolidation will continue to exist, which provides for acquisition opportunities, and expect that acquisitions will continue to be an important component of our long-term growth. 

Industry Overview 

Agricultural Equipment Industry 

Agricultural equipment is purchased primarily for the production of crops used for food, fiber, feed grain and feedstock for renewable energy. Certain equipment is also purchased for home and garden applications, and maintenance of commercial, residential and government properties. Deere &#38; Company ("Deere"), CNH Industrial and Agco Corporation ("AGCO") are the largest global manufacturers of agricultural equipment and supply a full line of equipment and parts that 

address the primary machinery requirements of farmers. In addition to the major manufacturers, several short-line manufacturers produce specialized equipment that addresses regional and niche requirements of farmers. Agricultural equipment manufacturers typically grant dealers in the U.S. authorized store locations, not exclusive territories, to distribute their products. 

We believe there are many factors that influence demand for agricultural equipment, parts and repair and maintenance services, including farm net income, commodity markets, interest rates, government policies, tax policies, weather and general economic conditions. Any of these conditions can change materially in a short time period, creating volatility in demand for our products and services at any point in time. Federal legislation, such as the Farm Bill, attempts to stabilize the agriculture industry through various policies including (i) commodity programs consisting of direct, counter-cyclical and price support payments to farmers; (ii) conservation programs; (iii) crop insurance programs; and (iv) disaster relief programs. We believe that these various federal policies reduce financial volatility and help ensure that farmers operate their farms and equipment during economic down cycles. 

Construction Equipment Industry 

Construction equipment is purchased primarily for use in commercial, residential and infrastructure construction, as well as for demolition, maintenance, mining, energy production and forestry operations. Caterpillar, Inc., Deere, Komatsu Ltd., the Volvo Group, Terex Corporation, Doosan, and CNH Industrial are some of the largest global manufacturers of construction and industrial equipment. The market for construction equipment is segmented across multiple categories including earth moving, lifting, light industrial, asphalt and paving, and concrete and aggregate equipment. As in the agricultural equipment market, distribution of construction equipment in the U.S. is executed primarily by manufacturer authorized dealers; however, manufacturers' dealership agreements in the construction industry typically assign exclusive distribution territories. 

Construction machinery is generally divided into "heavy" and "light" subgroups. Heavy machinery includes large wheel loaders, large tracked excavators, cranes, crawler dozers, motor graders and articulated haul trucks. Light machinery includes backhoe landscape tractors, forklifts, compact excavators and skid steers. Heavy machinery is generally purchased by construction companies, municipalities, local governments, rental fleet owners, quarrying and mining companies, waste management companies and forestry-related organizations. Typically, light machinery is purchased by contractors, rental fleet owners, landscapers, logistics companies, farmers and recreational users. Although demand for construction equipment is affected by weather and seasonal factors, it is usually less susceptible to seasonal changes than the agricultural equipment industry. 

CNH Industrial and industry reports show that demand for construction equipment in our markets is driven by several factors, including (i) public spending on roads, highways, sewer and water projects, and other public works projects; (ii) public and private expenditures for the energy and mining industries, which are driven in part by demand for fossil fuels, metals and other commodities; and (iii) general economic and market conditions of the construction sector for residential and commercial buildings. 

Titan Operating Model 

Through our operating model, we strive to empower leadership and share best practices at the store level while realizing efficiencies and utilizing certain controls at the corporate level. We believe exceptional customer service is most effectively attained through accountable store employees who are supported by centralized administrative, finance and marketing functions. Managing our business as a network of independent stores with support and oversight by a centralized, shared resources group facilitates coordination within the enterprise while promoting the development of local business and customer relationships at the store level. 

Store Operations 

Each of our stores is run by a store manager who is reviewed and compensated based on the store's achievement of key financial objectives. Also, each store is typically staffed by a parts manager, a service manager and field marketers, and certain of our Construction stores are staffed with rental operations managers, all of whom report directly to the store manager. Under our operating model, decision-making for customer-related issues is decentralized, with each store manager having substantial responsibility for matters such as staffing levels, customer satisfaction, the type of equipment to stock and equipment pricing, subject to parameters and objectives set forth by our shared resources group. We believe customers in our industry view store managers and sales and service personnel as important partners in operating their businesses. Therefore, we believe developing and supporting strong store managers enables us to grow same-store sales through fostering new customer relationships and further developing existing customer relationships. 

Shared Resources 

Our shared resources group provides a range of services to support our stores, including service administration, information technology support, administration, marketing campaigns, human resources management, finance and insurance, central purchasing, accounting, legal, data administration and cash management. We believe these functions can be run more efficiently when combined and can provide more sophisticated resources to our store managers than an independent dealership could support alone. We maintain accountability through our management reporting systems, which provide data on certain key operational and financial metrics on a daily basis, as well as a comprehensive review of financial performance on a monthly basis. We believe the services provided by our shared resources group enables our stores to achieve a higher level of customer service by freeing them from certain general and administrative functions. Furthermore, as we acquire new stores, we believe the shared services required to support these stores will grow at a lower rate than our overall growth in store count. 

Management Development and Succession Planning 

Our executives and segment leaders work closely with our regional, store and shared resource managers to ensure they benefit from our executives' industry knowledge and execute operational excellence in line with our management philosophy. We also conduct formal meetings on a regular basis with our store managers and regional managers to assess operational and financial objectives, develop near-term strategies and share best practices across the organization. We believe the relationships among our executives and various levels of managers will sustain our financial success through continued implementation of our effective operating model, as well as provide a strong pool of capable successors to our current team of executives and other levels of management. 

Business Strengths 

We believe the following attributes are important factors in our ability to compete effectively and achieve our long-term financial objectives: 

Leading North American Equipment Provider with Significant Scale 

According to CNH Industrial, we are the largest retail dealer of Case IH Agriculture equipment in the world, the largest retail dealer of Case Construction equipment in North America and a major retail dealer of New Holland Agriculture and New Holland Construction equipment in the U.S. We believe our size and large, contiguous geographic market provide us with several competitive advantages including: 

&#8226; 

our ability to manage inventory through our centralized inventory management system, thus allowing inventory exchanges among the stores, which permits us to more effectively manage inventory levels at each store while providing significant breadth of parts and equipment to our customers; 

&#8226; 

our ability to use expanded sales channels, including used equipment listings hosted on our website, which enables us to offer our customers alternative purchasing options; and 

&#8226; 

our ability to sell inventory to customers in a large geographic area covering Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Wyoming, which enables us to capitalize on crop diversification and disparate weather in growing regions, as well as local trends in residential, infrastructure and commercial construction. 

Superior Customer Service at the Local Level 

Our actions to centralize numerous administrative functions has enabled our store employees to better focus on customer service as well as eliminating redundant operating expenses. We also centralize our marketing resources to offer our stores and field marketers professional marketing support that includes targeted direct mailings, advertising with targeted local media outlets, participation in and sponsorship of trade shows and industry events, our Titan Trader monthly magazine, and our hosting of open houses, service clinics, equipment demonstrations, product showcases and customer appreciation outings. 

We spend significant time and resources training our employees to effectively service our customers in each of our local markets, which we believe will increase our revenue. Our training program involves active participation in all manufacturer-sponsored training programs and the use of industry experts as consultants for customized training programs and a training team to assist in the integration of newly-acquired operations. We also partner with several technical colleges to sponsor students who we plan to eventually employ. In particular, the following capabilities enable us to better service our customers: 

&#8226; 

our ability to staff a large number of highly-trained service technicians across our network of stores, which makes it possible to schedule repair services on short notice without affecting our technician utilization rates; 

&#8226; 

our ability to staff and leverage product and application specialists across our network of stores, which makes it possible to offer valuable pre-sale and aftermarket services, including equipment training, best practices education and precision farming technology support; and 

&#8226; 

our ability to innovate and lead our industry through initiatives such as GPS guidance systems to support precision farming in our geographic markets, which provide our customers with the latest advances in technology and operating practices. 

Attract and Retain Superior Employees 

We strive to maintain a culture that empowers our employees to make decisions and act within the parameters of our operating process and system. We believe this culture and our size gives us a competitive advantage in attracting and retaining the best employees in our industry. We developed an operating system and process that provides our employees with defined objectives and frequent feedback of results within an environment that allows them to work independently yet consistently throughout our company. Through this operating system and process we have established defined financial metrics, which are reviewed with our various levels of managers on a regular basis to assess performance. Each store manager is empowered to operate the individual store as appropriate within the guidelines set by the operating system and process. This balanced management philosophy enables our employees to understand clearly how they succeed in our organization and how to interact with customers who expect a level of autonomy from our employees. Our compensation system focuses on rewarding our employees for high performance, thus enabling us to attract and retain high performing employees. 

Diverse and Stable Customer Base to Avoid Market Volatility 

We believe our large and diverse customer base limits our exposure to risks associated with customer concentration and fluctuations in local market conditions. We have long and stable relationships with many of our customers. During fiscal 2016 , none of our customers accounted for more than 1.0% &#32;of our total revenue. Revenue from external customers located outside of the United States is primarily included in our International segment, which totaled 11.8% , 8.6% &#32;and 6.2% &#32;of total revenue during fiscal 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Information Technology Systems 

Our management reporting systems provide the data and reports that facilitate our ability to make informed financial and inventory level decisions. We use these systems to actively manage our business and enable each store to access the available inventory of our other stores before ordering additional parts or equipment from our suppliers. As a result, we manage our investment in inventory while promptly satisfying our customers' parts and equipment needs. Our customer relationship management system provides sales, available wholegoods, and customer information and other organizational tools to our field marketers, store managers and regional managers. 

Experienced Management Team 

Our executive team is led by David Meyer, our Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer, who has over 40 years of industry experience. Our segment managers, regional managers, store managers and field marketers also have extensive knowledge and experience in our industry. In addition, we compensate, develop and review our regional managers and store managers based on an approach that aligns their incentives with the goals and objectives of our company, including achievement of revenue, profitability, market share and balance sheet objectives. We believe the strength of our management team will help our success in the marketplace. 

Growth Strategy 

We pursue the following growth strategies: 

Increase Market Share and Same-Store Sales 

We focus on increasing our share of the equipment sold in our markets because our market share impacts current period revenue and compounds our revenue over the life of the equipment sold through recurring parts and service business. We seek to generate same-store growth and increase market share through: 

&#8226; 

employing significant marketing and advertising programs, including targeted direct mailings, advertising with targeted local media outlets, participation in and sponsorship of trade shows and industry events, our Titan Trader monthly magazine, and by hosting open houses, service clinics, equipment demonstrations, product showcases and customer appreciation outings; 

&#8226; 

supporting and providing customers with training for evolving technologies, such as precision farming, that are difficult for single-store operators to support; 

&#8226; 

maintaining state-of-the-art service facilities, mobile service trucks and trained service technicians to maximize our customers' equipment uptime through preventative maintenance programs and seasonal 24/7 service support; and 

&#8226; 

utilizing our inventory system to maximize parts and equipment availability for our customers. 

Pursue Strategic Acquisitions 

The agricultural and construction equipment industries are fragmented and consist of many relatively small, independent businesses servicing discrete local markets. We believe a favorable climate for dealership consolidation exists due to several factors, including the competitiveness of our industry, growing dealer capitalization requirements and the lack of succession alternatives for current owners. We intend to continue to evaluate and pursue acquisitions with the objectives of entering new markets, consolidating distribution within our established network and strengthening our competitive position. 

We have a track record of completing and integrating acquisitions and have used acquisitions to enter new markets. We look to add stores through acquisitions that offer attractive growth opportunities, high demand for the equipment we sell and services we offer, management strength, and operating synergies with our existing geographic footprint. 

We regularly assess the acquisition landscape, evaluating potential acquisition candidates in terms of their availability and desirability to our long-term growth strategy. Typically, we acquire only the working capital and fixed assets that we believe are necessary to run an efficient store and assume only the liabilities related to financing the inventory and working capital acquired, although we sometimes acquire all the equity of a company. Acquisitions are typically financed with available cash balances, floorplan payables and long-term debt. 

The consent of CNH Industrial is required to acquire any CNH Industrial dealership. The consent of the group of banks led by Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (collectively referred to as "Wells Fargo") is required for the acquisition of dealerships meeting certain thresholds or other criteria defined in our Second Amended and Restated Credit Facility, as amended (the "Credit Agreement"). 

We have completed the acquisition of 52 dealers, totaling 110 stores, since January 1, 2003. Of these acquisitions, 35 dealers consisting of 60 stores are included in the Agriculture segment, 13 dealers consisting of 40 stores are included in the Construction segment, and 3 &#32;dealers consisting of 10 &#32;stores are included in the International segment. See Item 2 for more information about our current store locations. 

Upon consummation of each North American acquisition, we integrate acquired stores into our operating model to enhance each acquired store's performance within its target market. 

Suppliers 

CNH Industrial&#8212;Case IH Agriculture, Case Construction, New Holland Agriculture and New Holland Construction 

We have a longstanding relationship with CNH Industrial and, according to CNH Industrial, we are the largest retail dealer of Case IH Agriculture equipment in the world, the largest retail dealer of Case Construction equipment in North America, and a major retail dealer of New Holland Agriculture and New Holland Construction equipment in the U.S. Thus, our relationship with CNH Industrial is more than a typical supply relationship; it is strategic for both our company and CNH Industrial. In that regard, it is in our mutual interests to maintain the longstanding strong relationship we share. 

We have been an authorized dealer of CNH Industrial equipment since our inception in 1980. In fiscal 2016 , CNH Industrial supplied approximately 71% &#32;of the new equipment sold in our Agriculture segment, 67% &#32;of the new equipment sold in our Construction segment, and 78% &#32;of the new equipment sold in our International segment. 

CNH Industrial is a global leader in the agricultural and construction equipment industries based on industry market share data. In 2015 , CNH Industrial generated $13.6 billion &#32;in revenue from their equipment operations. In addition, CNH Industrial provides financing and insurance products and services to its end-user customers and authorized dealers through its CNH Industrial Capital America, LLC ("CNH Industrial Capital") business unit. CNH Industrial is a publicly-traded company. 

CNH Industrial is the world's second largest manufacturer of agricultural equipment. The Case IH Agriculture and New Holland Agriculture brands are owned and operated by CNH Industrial. Case IH Agriculture, recognized by the red color of its equipment, possesses over 170 years of farm equipment heritage. New Holland Agriculture, recognized by the blue color of its tractors and the yellow color of its harvesting and hay equipment, has over 120 years of farm equipment industry experience. CNH Industrial's agricultural equipment dealers are assigned authorized store locations but do not have exclusive territories. 

The Case Construction and New Holland Construction brands are owned and operated by CNH Industrial. CNH Industrial's construction equipment dealers are assigned a specific geographic area of responsibility within which the dealers have the right to sell new Case Construction and New Holland Construction equipment. 

Dealership Agreements 

We have entered into separate dealership agreements with applicable CNH Industrial entities to sell the Case IH Agriculture, New Holland Agriculture, Case Construction and New Holland Construction brands (collectively the &#8220;CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements&#8221;). 

The CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements assign to us a geographically defined area of principal responsibility, providing us with distribution and product support rights within the identified territory for specific equipment products of the manufacturer. Although the dealer appointment is non-exclusive, in each territory there is typically only one dealership responsible for retail sales to end-users, as well as after-sales product support of the equipment. If we sell certain Case construction equipment outside of our designated sales and service areas and do not perform the warranty work on that equipment, CNH Industrial has the right to require that we pay sales and service fees for purposes of compensating the dealer assigned to such territory. We are authorized to display and use CNH Industrial trademarks and trade names at our stores, with certain restrictions. 

Under our CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements, we have both the right and obligation to sell the manufacturer&#8217;s equipment and related parts and products and provide customers with services. The CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements impose various requirements on us regarding the location and appearance of facilities, satisfactory levels of new equipment and parts inventories, the training of personnel, adequate business enterprise and information technology system, adequate working capital, minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, maximum adjusted debt to tangible net worth ratio, development of annual sales and marketing goals, and furnishing of monthly and annual financial information. We must obtain the approval or consent of CNH Industrial in the event of proposed fundamental changes to our ownership, governance or business structure (defined as "change in control" events) including among other things (i) a merger, consolidation or reorganization; (ii) a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; (iii) any transaction or series of transactions resulting in a person or affiliated group acquiring 20% or more of the combined voting power of our securities; (v) a substantial disposition of common shares by certain named executives; (vii) certain significant changes in the composition of the Board of Directors; (vi) replacement of certain named executive officers; and (vii) engaging in material business activities outside of the equipment sales and service industry. The CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements do not establish mandatory minimum or maximum retail pricing for our equipment sales or service/parts. 

The CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements do not have a fixed term and remain in effect until either party exercises its termination rights under the agreement. The CNH Industrial entities have the right to terminate their dealer agreements with us immediately in certain circumstances, including in the event of our insolvency, bankruptcy or our material breach of provisions of the agreement, if a direct competitor of CNH Industrial (or an affiliated group of such competitor) acquires 20% or more of the combined voting power of our securities, the failure to secure the consent of CNH Industrial for change in control events, and in some cases, for any reason following 90 days written notice. In the event of termination of any of the CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements, CNH Industrial is obligated to repurchase the inventory of the CNH Industrial brand applicable to the agreement being terminated. The CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements generally do not include specific non-compete provisions that apply during or after the term of such agreements, although our form agreement with Case Construction does include limitations on our ability to sell competing products during the term of such agreement. 

The dealership agreements and industry practices generally provide that payment on equipment and parts purchased from CNH Industrial entities is due within 30 days and is typically subject to floorplan payable financing. With respect to sales of equipment, payments from customers, which are typically financed by a third party, are due upon sale. Payments from customers for parts and services are due within 30 days. CNH Industrial makes available to us any floorplans, parts return programs, sales or incentive programs or similar plans or programs it offers to its other dealers, and provides us with promotional items and marketing materials. 

CNH recently proposed modified dealer agreements for the consideration of its North America dealers. We have not finalized negotiations of these agreements. Certain terms and conditions of the current CNH Industrial Dealer Agreements may be modified following these negotiations. The new dealer agreements with CNH Industrial, if entered into, may not be as favorable as our current dealer agreements. 

Other Suppliers 

In addition to products supplied by CNH Industrial, we sell a variety of new equipment, parts and attachments supplied by other manufacturers. These products tend to address specialized niche markets and to complement the CNH Industrial products we sell by filling gaps in the CNH Industrial line of products. We believe our offering of products for 

specialized niche markets supports our goal of being a one-stop solution for equipment needs at each of our stores. Approximately 28% &#32;of our total new equipment sales in fiscal 2016 &#32;resulted from sales of products manufactured by companies other than CNH Industrial, with our single largest manufacturer other than CNH Industrial representing approximately 2% &#32;of our total new equipment sales. The terms of our arrangements with these other suppliers vary, but most of the dealership agreements contain termination provisions allowing the supplier to terminate the agreement after a specified notice period, which is typically 30 days. Payment and financing practices with these other suppliers are similar to those practices described above with respect to CNH Industrial entities. 

Operating Segments, Products and Services 

We operate our business in three reportable segments, Agriculture, Construction and International. Within each of our segments, we have four principal sources of revenue: new and used equipment sales, parts sales, repair and maintenance service, and equipment rental and other business activities. See Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report for additional information regarding our segments. 

Equipment Sales 

We sell new agricultural and construction equipment manufactured under the CNH Industrial family of brands as well as equipment from a variety of other manufacturers. The used equipment we sell is primarily from inventory acquired through trade-ins from our customers and selective purchases. The agricultural equipment we sell and service includes application equipment and sprayers, combines and attachments, hay and forage equipment, planting and seeding equipment, precision farming technology, tillage equipment, and tractors. The construction equipment we sell and service includes compact track loaders, compaction equipment, cranes, crawler dozers, excavators, forklifts, loader/backhoes, loader/tool carriers, motor graders, skid steer loaders, telehandlers and wheel loaders. We sell new and used equipment through our in-house retail sales force, which is organized by geography and operating segment. We also sell used equipment through our outlet store, which specializes in the sale of aged used equipment. In certain circumstances we also sell aged equipment through the use of alternative channels such as onsite and online auctions. We believe this organizational structure improves the effectiveness of our sales force, better serves our customers and helps us negotiate advantageous trade-in purchase terms. Equipment sales generate cross-selling opportunities for us by populating our markets with equipment we repair and maintain and for which we sell parts. Equipment revenue represented 67.7% , 73.6% &#32;and 77.4% &#32;of total revenue for the years ended January 31, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Parts Sales 

We sell a broad range of maintenance and replacement parts on equipment that we sell, as well as other types of equipment. We maintain an extensive in-house parts inventory to provide timely parts and repair and maintenance support to our customers. We generally are able to acquire out-of-stock parts directly from manufacturers within two business days. Our parts sales provide us with a relatively stable revenue stream that is less sensitive to economic cycles than our equipment sales. Parts revenue represented 17.9% , 14.2% &#32;and 12.4% &#32;of total revenue for the years ended January 31, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Repair and Maintenance Services 

We provide repair and maintenance services, including warranty repairs, for our customers' equipment. Each of our stores includes service bays staffed by trained service technicians. Our technicians are also available to make off-site repairs at the customers' locations. In addition, we provide proactive and comprehensive customer service by maintaining service histories for each piece of equipment owned by our customers, maintaining 24/7 service hours in times of peak service usage, providing on-site repair services, scheduling off-season maintenance activities with customers, notifying customers of periodic service requirements and providing training programs to customers to educate them as to standard maintenance requirements. At the time equipment is purchased, we also offer customers the option of purchasing extended warranty protection provided by our suppliers. Our after-market services have historically provided us with a high-margin, relatively stable source of revenue through changing economic cycles. Service revenue represented 9.3% , 7.8% , 6.7% &#32;of total revenue for the years ended January 31, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Equipment Rental and Other Business Activities 

We rent equipment to our customers, primarily in the Construction segment, on a short-term basis for periods ranging from a few days to a few months. We actively manage the size, quality, age and composition of our rental fleet and use our information technology systems to closely monitor and analyze customer demand and rate trends. We maintain the quality of our fleet through our on-site parts and services support and dispose of rental equipment through our retail sales force. Our rental activities create cross-selling opportunities for us in equipment sales. In addition, we provide ancillary equipment support activities such as equipment transportation, GPS signal subscriptions in connection with precision farming and reselling CNH 

Industrial Capital finance and insurance products. Rental and other revenue represented 5.1% , 4.4% &#32;and 3.5% &#32;of total revenue for the years ended January 31, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Geographic Information 

Revenue generated from customers located in the U.S. totaled $1.2 billion , $1.7 billion &#32;and $2.1 billion &#32;for the years ended January 31, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. Revenue generated from customers located outside of the United States is primarily included in our International segment, which totaled $162.1 million , $164.4 million &#32;and $138.1 million &#32;for the years ended January 31, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. As of January 31, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , $185.1 million , $209.4 million &#32;and $258.6 million &#32;of our long-lived assets were held in the U.S., respectively. As of January 31, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , $4.4 million , $6.1 million &#32;and $7.3 million &#32;of our long-lived assets were held in our European subsidiaries, respectively. 

Customers 

Our Agriculture customers vary from small, single machine owners to large farming operations, primarily in the states of Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota. In fiscal 2016 , no single customer accounted for more than 1.0% &#32;of our Agriculture revenue. 

Our Construction customers include a wide range of construction contractors, public utilities, mining and energy companies, municipalities and maintenance contractors, primarily in the states of Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Wyoming. They vary from small, single machine owners to large firms. In fiscal 2016 , no single customer accounted for more than 1.0% &#32;of our Construction revenue. 

Our International customers vary from small, single machine owners to large farming operations, primarily in the European countries of Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia and Ukraine. In fiscal 2016 , there was no single customer the loss of which would have a material impact on our International revenue. 

Our stores enable us to closely service local and regional customers. We believe our operating model enables us to satisfy customer requirements and increase revenue through cross-selling opportunities presented by the various products and services that we offer. A significant portion of our U.S. customers finance their equipment purchases through CNH Industrial Capital. 

Floorplan Payable Financing 

We attempt to maintain at each store, or have readily available at other stores in our network, sufficient inventory to satisfy customer needs. Inventory levels fluctuate throughout the year and tend to increase before the primary sales seasons for agricultural equipment. The cost of financing our inventory is an important factor affecting our financial results. 

CNH Industrial Capital 

CNH Industrial Capital offers floorplan payable financing to CNH Industrial dealers to finance the purchase of inventory from CNH Industrial and for used equipment inventory purchased on trade-ins from our customers. CNH Industrial Capital provides this financing in part to enable dealers to carry representative inventories of equipment and encourage the purchase of goods by dealers in advance of seasonal retail demand. CNH Industrial Capital charges variable market rates of interest based on the prime rate on balances outstanding after any interest-free periods and receives a security interest in inventory and other assets. The interest-free periods, which CNH Industrial offers periodically in the form of additional incentives or special offers, typically average four months for new and used agriculture equipment and new construction equipment. CNH Industrial Capital also provides financing for used equipment accepted in trade, repossessed equipment and approved equipment from other suppliers, and receives a security interest in such equipment. As of January 31, 2016 , we had a $450.0 million &#32;floorplan payable credit facility with CNH Industrial Capital. 

Other Financing Sources for Equipment 

As of January 31, 2016 , we had a Credit Agreement with Wells Fargo, which includes a $275.0 million &#32;wholesale floorplan payable line of credit, a $172.0 million &#32;credit facility with DLL Finance LLC ("DLL Finance", formerly Agricredit Acceptance LLC), and the U.S. dollar equivalent of $115.4 million &#32;in credit facilities related to its foreign subsidiaries to finance equipment inventory purchases. Our amendment to the DLL Finance credit facility in April 2016 reduced our available borrowings under this facility to $110.0 million . 

In addition, financing also may be available through floorplan payable financing programs offered by other manufacturers and other suppliers from which we purchase equipment inventory, which may be financed by such suppliers themselves or through third party lenders. 

Sales and Marketing 

As part of the Titan Operating Model, we have centralized sales support and marketing management. All of our stores benefit from our centralized media buys, strategic planning, sales support and training. At the same time, however, we provide our store managers and their sales teams with flexibility to localize sales and marketing. 

We currently market our products and services through: 

&#8226; 

our employee field marketers, who operate out of our network of local stores and call on customers in the markets surrounding each store; 

&#8226; 

parts managers and service managers, who provide our customers with comprehensive after-market support; 

&#8226; 

our website; 

&#8226; 

local and national advertising efforts, including broadcast, cable, print and web-based media; and 

&#8226; 

alternative channels for selling our aged equipment inventories. 

Field Marketers 

Our field marketers perform a variety of functions, such as servicing customers at our stores, calling on existing customers and soliciting new business at farming, construction and industrial sites. These field marketers target customers in specific areas, and we develop customized marketing programs for our sales force by analyzing each customer group for profitability, buying behavior and product selection. All members of our sales force are encouraged to participate in internal and external manufacturer-sponsored training sessions to develop product and application knowledge, sales techniques and financial acumen. Our sales force is supported by our corporate marketing department. 

Parts Managers and Service Managers 

Our parts managers and service managers are involved in our uptime service efforts, taking advantage of our seasonal marketing campaigns in parts and service sales. As a group, they have won multiple awards from our suppliers for their efforts benefiting both our customers and our key strategic partners. 

Website 

Our used equipment inventories are marketed on our website, www.titanmachinery.com, &#32;through an equipment search feature which allows users to search by equipment type, manufacturer, price and/or by store. A picture of each piece of equipment is shown, along with the equipment specifications, price and store location. Parts manufactured by the CNH Industrial brands are marketed and can be purchased directly through our website. Other sales and financing programs are also marketed through our website. Finally, our website also provides dealer locator search functions and provides the contact information for the various departments at each of our stores. 

Print, Broadcast and Web-Based Advertising Campaigns 

Each year we initiate several targeted direct mail, print and broadcast advertising and marketing campaigns. CNH Industrial and other suppliers periodically provide us with advertising funds, which we primarily use to promote new equipment, parts and financing programs. We will continue to explore and launch additional sales channels as appropriate, including, for example, new internet-based efforts. 

Channels for Selling Aged Equipment Inventory 

We have one &#32;outlet store which capitalizes on sales opportunities for aged used equipment transferred out of our retail stores. In certain circumstances we also sell aged equipment inventories through the use of alternative channels such as onsite and online auctions. 

Competition 

The agricultural and construction equipment sales and distribution industries are highly competitive and fragmented, with large numbers of companies operating on a regional or local scale. Our competitors range from multi-location, regional operators to single-location, local dealers and include dealers and distributors of competing equipment brands, including Deere, Caterpillar and the AGCO brands, as well as other dealers and distributors of the CNH Industrial family of brands. Competition among equipment dealers, whether they offer agricultural or construction products or both, is primarily based on the price, value, reputation, quality and design of the products offered by the dealer, the customer service and repair and maintenance service provided by the dealer, the availability of equipment and parts, and the accessibility of stores. While we believe we compete favorably on each of the identified competitive factors, our sales and margins may be impacted depending on (i) the 

extent of aggressive pricing competition through manufacturer discount programs or other competitive pricing tactics, (ii) our ability to obtain higher service gross margins based on our service quality and reputation and (iii) our ability to attract new and maintain existing customers based on the availability and quality of the products we offer and our local relationships and reputation. 

The number of agricultural and construction equipment dealers operating on a regional scale is limited and we are one of the principal regional-scale agricultural and construction equipment dealers in the U.S. The primary regional-scale equipment dealers with whom we compete in the U.S. include RDO Equipment Co., Butler Machinery, Ziegler Inc. and Brandt Holdings Co. 

Information Technology Systems 

Our enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system enables us to closely monitor our performance and actively manage our business on a consolidated and segment basis and includes features that were enhanced to support our operations, including detailed store-based financial reporting, inventory management and customer relationship management. 

Through our ERP system we maintain a complete database of parts and equipment inventory and a centralized inventory control system for each segment. Our ERP system enables each store to access the available inventory of our other stores before ordering additional parts or equipment from our suppliers. We are also able to monitor inventory levels and mix at each store and make adjustments in accordance with our operating plan. Finally, our ERP system is externally connected to CNH Industrial, enabling us to locate CNH Industrial equipment and parts from various CNH Industrial depots. 

Our customer relationship management ("CRM") system provides sales and customer information and other organizational tools to assist our sales force. We maintain an extensive customer database that allows us to monitor the status and maintenance history of our customers' equipment and enables us to more effectively provide parts and services to meet their needs. We also use our CRM system and customer database to monitor sales information and customer demand. 

The data we store in our ERP and CRM systems is backed-up on a daily basis and stored at an off-site location. Thus, if these systems were to become inoperable, we would be able to continue operations through an off-site data center. Further, we own the software and hardware necessary to operate the ERP system and have employees trained to manage and maintain the software without reliance on external support. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated as a North Dakota corporation in 1980 and reincorporated in Delaware in December 2007 prior to our initial public offering. Our executive offices are located at 644 East Beaton Drive, West Fargo, ND 58078-2648. Our telephone number is (701) 356-0130. We maintain a web site at www.titanmachinery.com . All of our SEC filings are available on the Investor Relations page of our web site, or at www.sec.gov. 

Intellectual Property 

We have registered trademarks for certain names and designs used in our business and have trademark applications pending for certain others. We generally operate each of our stores under the Titan Machinery name. Case IH, Case and New Holland are registered trademarks of CNH Industrial, which we use in connection with advertisements and sales as authorized under our dealership agreements. We license trademarks and trade names of new equipment from other suppliers of equipment to us. 

Product Warranties 

Product warranties for new equipment and parts are provided by our suppliers. The term and scope of these warranties vary greatly by supplier and by product. At the time equipment is purchased, we also offer customers the option of purchasing extended warranty protection provided by our suppliers. Suppliers pay us for repairs we perform to equipment under warranty. We generally sell used equipment "as is" and without manufacturer's warranty, although manufacturers sometimes provide limited warranties if the supplier's original warranty is transferable and has not expired. We also offer extended warranty programs, through various third party warranty providers, on certain used equipment. 

Seasonality &#38; Weather 

The agricultural and construction equipment businesses are highly seasonal, which causes our quarterly results and our available cash flow to fluctuate during the year. Our customers generally purchase and rent equipment in preparation for, or in conjunction with, their busy seasons, which for farmers are the spring planting and fall harvesting seasons, and for Construction customers is dependent on weather seasons in their respective regions, but is typically the second and third quarters of our fiscal year for much of our Construction footprint. Our parts and service revenues are typically highest during our customers' 

busy seasons as well, due to the increased use of their equipment during this time, which generates the need for more parts and service work. However, weather conditions impact the timing of our customers' busy times, which may cause our quarterly financial results to differ between fiscal years. In addition, the fourth quarter typically is a significant period for equipment sales in the U.S. because of our customers&#8217; year-end tax planning considerations, the timing of dealer incentives and the increase in availability of funds from completed harvests and construction projects. 

Seasonal weather trends, particularly severe wet or dry conditions, can have a significant impact on regional agricultural and construction market performance by affecting crop production and the ability to undertake construction projects. Weather conditions that adversely affect the agricultural or construction markets would have a negative effect on the demand for our products and services. 

In addition, numerous external factors such as credit markets, commodity prices, and other circumstances may disrupt normal purchasing practices and buyer sentiment, further contributing to the seasonal fluctuations. 

Employees 

As of March 31, 2016 , we employed 2,352 &#32;full-time and 195 &#32;part-time employees. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our relations with our employees are good. 

Governmental Regulation 

We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local rules and regulations, including regulations promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state agencies, with respect to storing, shipping, disposing, discharging and manufacturing hazardous materials and hazardous and non-hazardous waste. These activities are associated with the repair and maintenance of equipment at our stores. Currently, none of our stores or operations exceeds small quantity generation status. Compliance with these rules and regulations has not had any material effect on our operations, nor do we expect it to in the future. Further, we have not made, and do not anticipate making, any material capital expenditures related to compliance with environmental regulations. However, there can be no assurance that these expectations are accurate, particularly if regulations change, unforeseen incidents occur or unknown past contamination or non-compliance is discovered, among other similar events. 

