 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

INTRODUCTION 

Shoal Games Ltd. (the &#34;Company&#34;) owns and markets a non-gambling social bingo game called Trophy Bingo. Trophy Bingo is an innovative free-to-play mobile game live in the Apple, Google and Amazon App Stores. Trophy Bingo brings unique gameplay and industry leading monetization techniques to the bingo category which is both high growth and high value. The game is free to download and supports in-app purchases and in-game advertising for players who want to engage with the premium features contained in the game. In-game purchases are transactions made from within a mobile game that are processed by the platform provider (Apple iOS; Google Android; Amazon Android). The worldwide full launch and marketing of Trophy Bingo commenced in the third quarter of 2015 when the latest version of Trophy Bingo was released world-wide in the Apple App Store and Google Play Store on all supported mobile phones and tablet devices.

The Company generates its main source of revenue from players making in-app purchases in Trophy Bingo via the Google Play Store, the Apple App Store and the Amazon Store. An additional source of revenue comes from serving advertising to our user demographic inside the Trophy Bingo game. Through relationships we have with advertising aggregators and providers, companies pay to have their products and services promoted in our App, or previously, on our web site and in some cases produced residual revenues as their customers continue to play or use their services.

Prior to December 31, 2014 the Company provided a variety of Internet games plus other forms of entertainment, including an online community, chat rooms, and more. This portion of the business was sold to Unibet, plc on December 31, 2014 and can be viewed at www.bingo.com.

We conducted a beta test launch of Trophy Bingo in May 2013, followed by a global soft launch of the enhanced game on Android in August, 2014 and on iOS in September 2014. Trophy Bingo was released worldwide in the Google Play Store on August 12, 2015, in the Apple App Store on September 3, 2015, and in the Amazon Appstore on November 30, 2015.

References in this document to "the Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Shoal Games Ltd. and our subsidiaries, which are described below.

Our executive offices are located at Hansa Bank Building, Ground Floor, Landsome Road, The Valley, AI 2640, The Valley, Anguilla, B.W.I. Our telephone number is (264) 461-2646.

Page 3

History and Corporate Structure 

The Company was originally incorporated in the State of Florida on January 12, 1987. 

Effective January 22, 1999, the Company acquired the use of the second level domain name bingo.com and embarked on our business strategy to become a leading online provider of bingo based games and entertainment.

Effective April 7, 2005, the shares of Bingo.com, Ltd. by way of a merger between Bingo.com, Inc. and Bingo.com, Ltd., began trading under the new ticker symbol "BNGOF".

On January 22, 2015, Bingo.com, Ltd. filed Articles of Amendment with the Anguilla Registrar of Companies changing its name to "Shoal Games Ltd.". Effective at the open of markets on January 27, 2015, the Common Shares commenced trading under the new trading symbol "SGLDF" on the OTC-QB.

On June 29, 2015, the Company filed a TSX Venture Exchange Listing Application for the TSX-V listing and commenced trading on July 2, 2015, under the symbol "SGW".

We conduct our business through the Anguilla incorporated entity and through our wholly-owned subsidiaries English Bay Office Management Limited ("English Bay"), Shoal Games (UK) plc ("Shoal UK"), Coral Reef Marketing Inc. ("Coral Reef") and Shoal Media Inc.

English Bay was incorporated under the laws of British Columbia, Canada, on February 10, 1998, as 559262 B.C. Ltd. and changed its name to Bingo.com (Canada) Enterprises Inc. on February 11, 1999. It subsequently changed its name to English Bay Office Management Limited on September 8, 2003. 

On August 15, 2002, we acquired 99% of the share capital of Shoal UK. Shoal UK was incorporated under the laws of England and Wales on August 18, 2000, as CellStop plc. and changed its name to Bingo.com (UK) plc. on August 5, 2002. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company changed the name of the company to Shoal Games (UK) plc. 

On January 21, 2008, Coral Reef Marketing Inc., was incorporated under the laws of Anguilla, British West Indies.

On January 1, 2013, we acquired 100% of the share capital of Shoal Media Inc., an Anguillian Company. 

We also maintain a number of inactive wholly-owned subsidiaries. These are:

- Bingo.com (Antigua), Inc., ("Bingo.com (Antigua") incorporated as an Antigua International Business Corporation on April 7, 1999, as Star Communications Ltd. and changed its name to Bingo.com. (Antigua), Inc. on April 21, 1999; 

- Bingo.com (Wyoming), Inc., incorporated in the State of Wyoming on July 14, 1999; 

- Bingo.com Acquisition Corp., incorporated in the State of Delaware on January 9, 2001.

All three of the inactive subsidiaries were incorporated to facilitate the implementation of business plans that we have since modified and refocused and, consequently, there is no activity in these entities.

Our common shares are currently quoted on the Over the Counter Markets - The Venture Marketplace (&#34;OTCQB&#34;) operated by OTC Markets Group Inc. under the symbol "SGLDF" and on the TSX Venture Exchange in Canada under the symbol "SGW". We have not been subject to any bankruptcy, receivership or other similar proceedings. 

Development of the Business 

Our current business strategy is to manage and grow our business with minimal overhead, focusing on our major asset, the social bingo game Trophy Bingo. 

Page 4

Bingo.com Domain Name 

On January 18, 1999, we purchased the exclusive right to use the domain name bingo.com from a then unrelated company, Bingo, Inc., an Anguilla corporation, for (i) a $200,000 cash payment, (ii) 500,000 shares of our common stock (at a value of $2.00 per share) and (iii) an agreement to pay, on an ongoing basis, the Domain Name Purchase price amounting to 4% of our annual gross revenues, with a total minimum guaranteed Domain Name Purchase payment of $1,100,000 in the first three years of the 99 year period ending December 31, 2098. The value of the bingo.com domain name was based on factors such as the ability for us to create a brand for our website based on the name, the ease of Internet search ability of the domain name, and the ability of visitors to our website to remember and associate the name with our website and business. We negotiated the terms of the domain name acquisition at arms' length, and we believe the consideration we paid for the domain name was reasonable. 

During the year ended December 31, 2002, the agreement was amended so that the remaining Domain Name Purchase payments to the vendor were made monthly, based on 4% of the preceding month's gross revenue.

In the latter half of fiscal 2010, the Company engaged an independent valuation company, to value the remaining 4% Domain Name Purchase payments. The Company reviewed the independent valuation and after considering this and other external variables, the Company and Bingo, Inc., the holder of the 4% Domain Name Purchase payments, agreed that the value of the 4% Domain Name Purchase payments to be $900,000. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company purchased the remaining Domain Name Purchase payments for $900,000 from Bingo, Inc., with the issuance of 6,000,000 common shares of Bingo.com, Ltd., at a value of $0.15 per share. 

Effective December 31, 2014, the Company sold the Bingo.com domain name to Unibet Group plc for $8 million. The Company received cash consideration of $2,000,000 and the redemption of the 15,000,000 common shares of the Company at a price of $0.40 per share, which were held by Unibet. The 15,000,000 common shares held by Unibet Group plc. have been returned to the Company's treasury and subsequently canceled.

Shoal Games Domain Names 

We own the domain names Shoalgames.com, Shoalgames.net, Shoalmedia.com, Shoalmedia.net, Trophybingo.com, Trophybingo.net, and Trophybingo.ca. On January 22, 2015, the Company changed its name from Bingo.com, Ltd. to Shoal Games Ltd. and on January 27, 2015 commenced trading on the OTCQB exchange with the symbol SGLDF. On July 2, 2015, the Company additionally commenced trading on the TSX Venture Exchanged with the symbol "SGW".

BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

Our objective is to become a leading social bingo game provider. We intend to leverage the worldwide popularity of bingo with the growth of social games to make Trophy Bingo a top grossing title. 

We are in the business of owning and marketing Trophy Bingo, an innovative, non-gambling social bingo game, currently live in the Google Play Store, the Apple App Store and the Amazon Appstore. Trophy Bingo is an innovative free-to-play mobile game live in the Apple, Google and Amazon App Stores. Trophy Bingo brings unique gameplay and industry leading monetization techniques to the bingo category which is both high growth and high value. The game is free to download and supports in-app purchases and in-game advertising for players who want to engage with the premium features contained in the game. 

Gaming Revenue Business 

During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, Bingo.com, N.V., a subsidiary of Bingo.com, Ltd., commenced gaming for cash whereby players purchase bingo cards and wager on other soft games such as video poker, hi-lo, and slots with the target audience being the United States and the games played in US dollars. 

Page 5

On September 30, 2006, the United States Senate passed the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act 2006 ("UIGEA"), which was signed into law by President Bush, on October 13, 2006. The legislation aimed to prohibit the funding of illegal online gambling to United States citizens and residents. Effective October 12, 2006, in response to the UIGEA we sold our United States player database and related assets to an unrelated company. The asset disposition included the registered online gaming players, the gaming servers, and the complete database of real money players. 

During the quarter ended June 30, 2007, we launched our United Kingdom focused website, with games targeted to the United Kingdom audience and the games played in British pounds sterling. 

During the quarter ended June 30, 2010, we migrated to the Unibet's Partner Program as a network operator of their multi-language and multi-currency bingo and casino systems. 

Effective December 31, 2014, we sold the domain name, www.bingo.com and its online gambling community to Unibet Group plc. and changed our name from Bingo.com, Ltd. to Shoal Games ltd. The Company's focus is now on its social bingo game, Trophy Bingo. 

Advertising Revenue Business 

We have in the past used the appeal of the bingo.com domain name to sell advertising on the free section of our website, which, initially, was our primary revenue source. During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, we commenced offering traditional bingo and other pay-for-play games to our players, which replaced advertising as our main source of revenue. 

Upon selling the pay-for-play games to Unibet on December 31, 2014, residual revenues from the advertising revenue from the bingo.com website accounted for approximately 11% of our revenue from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Social Bingo Business 

The Company is now developing a social bingo game called Trophy Bingo on Apple's iOS, Google's Android and Amazon Android systems primarily on smartphones and tablets. Trophy Bingo was soft launched in August 2014 and launched worldwide in the third quarter of fiscal 2015. Revenue will be generated in the game via in-app purchases for players who find themselves in need of extra bingos or want to engage with the premium power plays contained in the game. Trophy Bingo also offers companies the ability to provide advertising to players in a non-intrusive manner on a pay per view basis to the Company.

The Niche 

We continue to work towards positioning ourselves as a leading social bingo game provider. We believe the size of the worldwide social bingo community and the entertainment offered by Trophy Bingo provide us with an opportunity to build a large loyal base of daily visitors from around the world. 

We believe that social bingo games are valuable entertainment in today's mobile-first environment and that mobile bingo games are a compelling entertainment medium for a mass user audience. 

BUSINESS STRATEGY 

Our objective is to become a leading social bingo game publisher with Trophy Bingo. We are pursuing this objective through the following strategies: 

Revenue streams 

In year ended December 31, 2015, we earned revenue from the social bingo segment from Trophy Bingo, whereby players make in-app purchases to earn in-game currency which they can then spend on extra bingos or on the premium power plays contained within the game. In addition, Trophy Bingo generates in revenue using a free-to-play strategy where players can choose to watch advertising.

In 2015 we generated 89% of revenue from our social bingo game.

Page 6

Social Bingo Plans 

The Company has a host of new features currently in development that are intended for release in the Trophy Bingo game. The Company intends to complete the software development presently underway before expanding our marketing efforts beyond the current maintenance level. One of the features in development is a viral social referral system. Trophy Bingo will contain many social features that are designed to increase the number of players downloading the App which, in turn, decreases our per player acquisition costs. When marketing does commence, and as the player volume increases, the viral aspects of the game will play an increasingly important role, as they will significantly increase the number of players in Trophy Bingo at no incremental cost to the Company. 

Marketing Strategy 

Our goal is for Trophy Bingo to become one of the most recognized and most visited social bingo games on the Internet, in the Google Play Store, in the Apple App Store and in the Amazon App Store. We intend to continue building a social community consisting of a dedicated and loyal player base that will support our ability to generate both advertising and in-app purchase revenues. 

OPERATIONS 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had one full-time employee, not including temporary personnel, consultants, and independent contractors. Since 2006 it has been, and continues to be, the Company's objective to control its costs by retaining consultants, as needed, to provide special expertise in developing internal strategic, marketing, accounting and technical services, while outsourcing our development requirements. None of our employees or consultants are represented by a labor union, and we believe that our relationship with our employees and consultants is good.

We are substantially dependent upon the continued services and performance of J. M. Williams, Chief Executive Officer and T. M. Williams, Executive Chairman. The loss of the services of these key individuals would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not carry any key man life insurance on any individuals.

Seasonality 

We do not believe that seasonality has an effect on our traffic volumes or our revenue realization.

Competition 

Mobile bingo is a relatively new industry that has been overlooked, underestimated and generally misunderstood by the large players in the social gaming industry. Bingo has been seen as an "old ladies game" not worthy of a concentrated marketing and development effort. The biggest successes in the mobile bingo industry have been the niche companies that understand the bingo market and not the larger companies that are, typically, from a video game or gaming background. Larger operators have acquired the companies behind the leading social bingo games. Caesars Interactive Entertainment acquired Buffalo Studios, the makers of Bingo Blitz, in 2012 for $53 million. More recently in 2014, GSN Games purchased Bash Gaming, the makers of Bingo Bash, for $160 million. The Company views these acquisitions as additional confirmation that the social bingo marketplace is valuable and will support another market entrant.

Costs and Effects of Compliance with Environmental Laws 

Our company is in the business of marketing Trophy Bingo, a form of entertainment focused on the game of bingo. To the best of our knowledge, no federal, state or local environmental laws are applicable to our business.

BRITISH COLUMBIA SECURITIES COMMISSION 

Effective September 15, 2008, the British Columbia Securities Commission ("BCSC") issued rule 51-509 Issuers Quoted in the U.S. Over-the-Counter Markets. Rule 51 - 509 requires all Over-the-Counter Companies that have connections to British Columbia (BC) to comply with BC securities law and certain public disclosure requirements. The Company is deemed to have connection to BC 

Page 7

due to the fact that administration and a director are located in BC. The Company has complied with rule 51-509 and registered and filed the necessary documents on SEDAR. The Company is deemed, due to the fact that there are less than 50% of the Company's shareholders located in BC, to be a foreign reporting issuer in accordance with NI 71-102 "Continuous Disclosure and Other Exemptions Relating to Foreign Issuers". Therefore the Company is only required to file what it files with the Securities and Exchange Commission on SEDAR.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS 

The equipment of the Company to operate the operations of the Company is located in Anguilla, United Kingdom, USA and Canada. The revenue from in-app purchases is worldwide, with the majority from Europe and the USA.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

The Company makes available through the Corporate Shoal Games section of its internet website at http://investor.shoalgames.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Press Releases and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commission's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. You can request copies of these documents, upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please call the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. 

We file our reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission electronically through the Securities and Exchange Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval ("EDGAR") system. The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding companies that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission through EDGAR. The address of this Internet site is http://www.sec.gov.

In addition, we file our reports on SEDAR, in accordance with rule 51-509 Issuers Quoted in the U.S. Over-the-Counter Markets as required by the British Columbia Securities Commission.

