 Item 1. Business 

General 

Xenia Hotels &#38; Resorts, Inc. (the "Company" or "Xenia") is a Maryland corporation that invests primarily in premium full service, lifestyle and urban upscale hotels. Prior to February 3, 2015, Xenia was a wholly owned subsidiary of InvenTrust Properties Corp. (formerly known as Inland American Real Estate Trust, Inc. or "InvenTrust"), its former parent. 

On February 3, 2015, Xenia was spun off from InvenTrust through a taxable pro rata distribution by InvenTrust of 95% &#32;of the outstanding common stock, $0.01 &#32;par value per share (the "Common Stock"), of Xenia to holders of record of InvenTrust's common stock as of the close of business on January 20, 2015 (the "Record Date"). Each holder of record of InvenTrust's common stock received one share of Common Stock for every eight shares of InvenTrust&#8217;s common stock held at the close of business on the Record Date (the "Distribution"). In lieu of fractional shares, stockholders of InvenTrust received cash. On February 4, 2015, Xenia&#8217;s Common Stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the ticker symbol "XHR." As a result of the Distribution, the Company became a stand-alone, publicly-traded company. Xenia intends to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for U.S. federal income tax purposes. See additional detail below in "Part I-Item 1. Our Structure and Reorganization Transactions." 

Substantially all of the Company's assets are held by, and all the operations are conducted through XHR LP. XHR GP, Inc. is the sole general partner of XHR LP. XHR GP, Inc. is wholly owned by the Company. On December 31, 2015 , the Company owned 99.5% &#32;of the common limited partnership units issued by the Operating Partnership ("operating partnership units"). The remaining 0.5% &#32;of the common units are owned by the other limited partners comprised of certain of our executive officers and members of our board of directors and includes unvested long term incentive plan ("LTIP") partnership units, which may or may not vest based on the passage of time and meeting certain market-based performance objectives. To qualify as a REIT, the Company cannot operate or manage its hotels. Therefore, the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries lease the hotel properties to XHR Holding, the Company's taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"), which engages third-party eligible independent operators to manage the hotels. The third-party non-affiliated hotel operators manage each hotel pursuant to a hotel management agreement, the terms of which are discussed in more detail under "Part I-Item 2. Our Principal Agreements". 

The Company's combined consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, the Operating Partnership, XHR Holding, as well as all wholly owned subsidiaries and consolidated joint venture investments. The Company's subsidiaries and joint ventures generally consist of limited liability companies ("LLCs"), limited partnerships ("LPs") and the TRS. The effects of all significant inter-company transactions are eliminated. 

As of December 31, 2015 , the Company owned 50 &#32;lodging properties, 48 &#32;of which were wholly owned, with a total of 12,548 &#32;rooms, including a 75% &#32;ownership interest in two hotels owned through two consolidated joint ventures. 

The Company&#8217;s principal executive offices are located at 200 S. Orange Avenue, Suite 1200, Orlando, Florida, 32801, and our telephone number is (407) 317-6950. The Company&#8217;s website is www.xeniareit.com. The information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our website neither constitutes part of this information statement nor is incorporated by reference herein. 

Our Structure and Reorganization Transactions 

Our History 

We were formed as a Delaware corporation in 2007 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of InvenTrust. Subsequently, we changed our name from Inland American Lodging Group, Inc. to IA Lodging Group, Inc. and converted to a Maryland corporation in 2014. On August 5, 2014, we changed our name to Xenia Hotels &#38; Resorts, Inc. 

Our Operating Partnership was formed as a North Carolina limited partnership in 1994. On September 17, 2014, our Operating Partnership was converted to a Delaware limited partnership and changed its name to XHR LP. Our wholly-owned subsidiary is the sole general partner of our Operating Partnership, and we conduct substantially all of our business through our Operating Partnership. As of December 31, 2015 , we own 99.5% &#32;of the operating partnership units in our Operating Partnership, with the remaining 0.5% &#32;being owned by certain of our executive officers and members of the board of directors. 

Our Corporate Reorganization 

Prior to our separation from InvenTrust, we effectuated certain reorganization transactions (collectively, the "Reorganization Transactions") which were designed to: consolidate the ownership of our hotels into our Operating Partnership; consolidate our TRS lessees into our TRS; facilitate our separation from InvenTrust and the Distribution; and enable us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes beginning with our short taxable year that commenced on January 5, 2015 and ended on February 3, 2015. 

The significant elements of our Reorganization Transactions included: 

&#8226; 

The Company was renamed and converted to a Maryland corporation; 

&#8226; 

Our Operating Partnership was renamed and converted to a Delaware limited partnership; 

&#8226; 

Certain of our TRS lessees were transferred from a subsidiary of InvenTrust into our TRS; 

&#8226; 

Certain subsidiaries owning our hotels were transferred to our Operating Partnership from other subsidiaries of ours, which subsidiaries were transferred to subsidiaries of InvenTrust other than us; 

&#8226; 

We classified and designated 125 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and issued 125 shares to 125 individual investors; 

&#8226; 

We issued 113,396,997 shares of our common stock to InvenTrust pursuant to a stock dividend effectuated prior to the Distribution; and 

&#8226; 

Certain subsidiaries that previously owned or leased the Suburban Select Service Portfolio (as defined below) or other hotels previously owned by us were transferred out of our Operating Partnership and our TRS and into subsidiaries of InvenTrust. 

Prior to the Reorganization Transactions, we owned all of our hotels and certain of our TRS lessees, and our remaining TRS lessees were owned by subsidiaries of InvenTrust other than us. In addition, prior to the sale of 52 suburban select service hotels (the "Suburban Select Service Portfolio"), we also owned all of the Suburban Select Service Portfolio and subsidiaries leasing certain hotels in the Suburban Select Service Portfolio, and the remaining subsidiaries leasing the Suburban Select Service Portfolio were owned by subsidiaries of InvenTrust other than us. 

The Suburban Select Service Portfolio was sold on November 17, 2014 to unaffiliated third party purchasers for approximately $1.1 billion, resulting in net proceeds to InvenTrust of approximately $480 million after prepayment of certain indebtedness and related costs. None of the proceeds from the sale of the Suburban Select Service Portfolio were retained by Xenia. 

Pursuant to the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement we entered into with InvenTrust in connection with the Distribution (the "Separation and Distribution Agreement"), we agreed to assume the first $8 million of liabilities (including any related fees and expenses) incurred following the Distribution relating to, arising out of or resulting from the ownership, operation or sale of the Suburban Select Service Portfolio and that relate to, arise out of or result from a claim or demand that is made against Xenia or InvenTrust by any person who is not a party or an affiliate of a party to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, other than liabilities arising from the breach or alleged breach by InvenTrust of certain fundamental representations made by InvenTrust to the third party purchasers of the Suburban Select Service Portfolio. We have also agreed to assume and indemnify InvenTrust for certain tax liabilities attributable to the Suburban Select Service Portfolio. As part of our working capital at the time of the Distribution, InvenTrust left us with cash estimated to be sufficient to satisfy such tax obligations. The hotels included in the Suburban Select Service Portfolio were not retained by Xenia because such hotels did not generally fit within our investment criteria of investing in premium full service, lifestyle and urban upscale hotels, with a focus on the Top 25 Markets as well as key leisure destinations in the United States. In selecting the hotels to retain in our portfolio, we also took into consideration factors such as supply growth dynamics in various markets, RevPAR and risk-adjusted return potential. In addition to the sale of the Suburban Select Service Portfolio, we also sold one hotel on May 30, 2014, one hotel on August 28, 2014 and one hotel on December 31, 2014. 

The following chart shows our structure as of December 31, 2015: 

(1) 

Ownership includes unvested LTIP partnership units, which may or may not vest based on the passage of time and meeting certain market-based performance objectives. 

Business Objectives and Growth Strategies 

Our objective is to invest primarily in premium full service, lifestyle and urban upscale hotels at valuations where we believe we can generate attractive returns on investment and long-term value appreciation and improve the value of our portfolio through aggressive asset management. We pursue this objective through the following investment and growth strategies: 

&#8226; 

Pursue Differentiated Investment Strategy Across Targeted Markets. &#32;We use our management team&#8217;s network of relationships in the lodging industry and our relationships with the 13 hotel management companies as of December 31, 2015 &#32;that currently manage assets in our portfolio, among others, to continue to source acquisition opportunities. When evaluating opportunities, we consider the following characteristics: 

&#8226; 

Market Characteristics. &#32;We seek opportunities across a range of urban and dense suburban areas, primarily in the Top 25 Markets as well as key leisure destinations, in the United States. We believe that this strategy provides us with a broader range of opportunities and allows us to target markets and sub-markets with particular positive characteristics, such as multiple demand generators, favorable supply and demand dynamics and attractive projected RevPAR growth. We believe assets in the Top 25 Markets and key leisure destinations present attractive investment opportunities considering the favorable supply and demand dynamics, RevPAR growth trends and attractive valuations. 

&#8226; 

Asset Characteristics. We generally pursue hotels in the upscale, upper upscale and luxury segments that are affiliated with leading premium brands, as we believe these segments yield attractive risk-adjusted returns. Within these segments, we seek hotels that will provide guests with a distinctive lodging experience, tailored to reflect local market environments rather than invest in properties that are heavily dependent on conventions and group business. We seek properties with desirable locations within their markets, exceptional facilities, and other competitive advantages that are hard to replicate. We also favor properties that can be purchased well below estimated replacement cost. We believe that our focus on premium full service, lifestyle, and urban upscale assets allows us to seek appropriate investments that are well suited for specific markets. 

&#8226; 

Operational and Structural Characteristics. &#32;We pursue both newly constructed assets that require limited capital investment as well as more mature and complex properties with opportunities for our dedicated asset and project management teams to create value through more active operational oversight and targeted capital expenditures. Additionally, we generally seek properties that are unencumbered by debt and that will not require joint venture ownership, allowing us maximum operational flexibility. 

We believe that our multi-pronged approach to investing provides us the flexibility to pursue attractive opportunities whenever and wherever they are presented. 

&#8226; 

Drive Growth through Proactive, Value-Added Asset Management, Project Management and Capital Allocation. &#32;We believe that investing in our properties and employing a proactive asset management approach designed to identify investment strategies will optimize internal growth opportunities. Our management team&#8217;s extensive industry experience across multiple brands and management companies and our integrated asset management and project management teams, enable us to identify and implement value-added strategies, prudently invest capital in our assets to optimize operating results and leverage best practices across our portfolio. 

&#8226; 

Aggressive Asset Management Strategy Drives Performance. Our experienced asset management team focuses on driving property performance through revenue enhancement and cost containment efforts. Our ability to work with a wide variety of management and franchise companies provides us with the opportunity to benchmark performance across our portfolio in order to share best practices. While we do not operate our hotel properties directly, and under the terms of our hotel management agreements our ability to participate in operating decisions regarding our hotels is limited, we conduct regular revenue, sales, and financial performance reviews and also perform in-depth on-site reviews focused on ongoing operating margin improvement initiatives. We interact frequently with our management companies and on-site management personnel, including conducting regular meetings with key executives of our management companies and brands. We work to maximize the value of our assets through all aspects of the hotel operation and ancillary real estate opportunities. 

&#8226; 

In-House Project Management Provides Better and Faster Capital Plan Execution. &#32;By maintaining a dedicated in-house capital planning and project management team, we believe we are able to develop our capital plans and execute our renovation projects at a lower cost and in a more timely manner than if we outsourced these services. In addition, our project management team has extensive experience in the ground-up development of hotel properties, providing both in-depth knowledge of building construction as well as the opportunity for us to evaluate potential development opportunities. We view this as a significant competitive strength relative to many of our peers. &#32; 

&#8226; 

Rigorous Capital Allocation Strategies Enhance Portfolio Performance. &#32;As part of our ongoing asset management activities, we regularly review opportunities to reinvest in our hotels to maintain quality, increase long-term value and generate attractive returns on invested capital. We also may opportunistically dispose of hotels to take advantage of market conditions or in situations where the hotels no longer fit within our strategic objectives. We believe our breadth of experience and integrated in-house asset management and project management teams are instrumental in our ability to acquire and operate assets and to capitalize on redevelopment opportunities. 

&#8226; 

Leverage Existing Infrastructure for Growth. &#32;Prior to the sale of the Suburban Select Service Portfolio, our asset management and project management employees were responsible for asset management oversight of a portfolio consisting of substantially more hotels. We have since retained the asset management and project management professionals that oversee our portfolio. We believe this level of staffing provides us with the capacity to accommodate additional growth in our portfolio without a significant increase in employees focusing on asset management and project management. Our core acquisition, asset management and project management teams have been working together for a number of years and have well-established systems and procedures. 

Our Financing Strategy 

Over time, we intend to finance our long-term growth with issuances of common and preferred equity securities and debt financings having staggered maturities. Our debt includes a senior unsecured credit facility, unsecured term loans, mortgage debt secured by our hotel properties or leasehold interests under the ground leases on our hotel properties, and may include other debt in the future. 

We anticipate using our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, unsecured term loans, common and preferred equity issuances, and mortgage or other debt financings to fund future acquisitions as well as for property redevelopments, return on investment initiatives, working capital requirements, and share repurchase programs. Subject to market conditions, we intend to repay amounts outstanding under the senior unsecured revolving credit facility from time to time with proceeds from periodic common and preferred equity issuances, long-term debt financings, sale of assets, and cash flows from operations. 

Competition 

The U.S. lodging industry is highly competitive. Our hotels compete with other hotels and alternative accommodation options for guests in each of their markets on the basis of several factors, including, among others, room rates, quality of accommodations, service levels and amenities, location, brand affiliation, reputation and reservation systems. Competition is often specific to the individual markets in which our hotels are located and includes competition from existing and new hotels and alternative accommodation options. We believe that hotels, such as our portfolio of hotels that are affiliated with leading national brands, will enjoy the competitive advantages associated with operating under such brands. Increased competition could harm our occupancy and revenues and may require us to provide additional amenities or make capital improvements that we otherwise would not have to make, which may materially and adversely affect our operating results and liquidity. 

We face competition for the acquisition of hotels from other REITs, private equity firms, institutional investors, hedge funds, specialty finance companies, insurance companies, governmental bodies and other entities. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial and operational resources and access to capital than we have and may have greater knowledge of the markets in which we seek to invest. This competition may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us and decrease the attractiveness of the terms on which we may acquire our targeted hotel investments, including the cost thereof. In addition, these competitors seek financing through the same channels that we do. Therefore, we compete for funding in a market where funds for real estate investment may decrease, or grow less than the underlying demand. 

Seasonality 

The lodging industry is seasonal in nature which can be expected to cause fluctuations in our hotel room revenues, occupancy levels, room rates, operating expenses and cash flows. The periods during which our hotels experience higher or lower levels of demand vary from property to property and depend upon location, type of property, and competitive mix within the specific location. Generally our revenues and operating income have been the lowest during the first quarter of each year, which we expect to be consistent from year to year for our current portfolio. 

Cyclicality 

The hospitality industry is cyclical and generally follows the overall economy. There is a history of increases and decreases in demand for hotel rooms, in occupancy levels and in rates realized by owners of hotels through economic cycles. Variability of results through some of the cycles in the past has been more severe due to changes in the supply of hotel rooms in given markets or in given segments of hotels. The combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners of hotel properties. The costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. Because of this, in an environment of declining revenues the rate of decline in earnings will be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. Conversely, in an environment of increasing demand and room rates, the rate of increase in earnings is typically higher than the rate of increase in revenues. 

Regulations 

General 

Our hotels are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas and fire and safety requirements. We believe that each of our hotels has the necessary permits and approvals to operate its business. 

Americans with Disabilities Act 

Our hotels must comply with applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA"), to the extent that such hotels are "public accommodations" as defined by the ADA. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our hotels where such removal is readily achievable. We believe that our hotels are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to make substantial capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA. However, non-compliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our hotels and to make alterations as appropriate in this respect. 

Environmental Matters 

Under various laws relating to the protection of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator (including tenants) of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property and may be required to investigate and clean up such contamination at that property or emanating from that property. These costs could be substantial and liability under these laws may attach without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our hotels may expose us to third-party liability or materially and adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop the real estate or to incur debt using the real estate as collateral. 

Our hotels are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that address a wide variety of issues, including, but not limited to, storage tanks, air emissions from emergency generators, storm water and wastewater discharges, lead-based paint, mold and mildew and waste management. Our hotels incur costs to comply with these laws and regulations and could be subject to fines and penalties for noncompliance. 

Some of our hotels contain asbestos-containing building materials. We believe that the asbestos is appropriately contained, in accordance with current environmental regulations and that we have no need for any immediate remediation or current plans to remove the asbestos. Environmental laws require that owners or operators of buildings with asbestos-containing building materials properly manage and maintain these materials, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. In addition, third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials. 

Some of our hotels may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other adverse conditions, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediation. The presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our hotels could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected hotel or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from guests or employees at our hotels and others if property damage or health concerns arise. 

JOBS Act 

As a company with less than $1.0 billion in revenue during our last fiscal year, we qualify as an "emerging growth company," as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the "JOBS Act"). Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act, for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Thus, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we are choosing to "opt out" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. 

An emerging growth company may also take advantage of reduced reporting requirements that are otherwise applicable to public companies. These provisions include, but are not limited to: 

&#8226; 

not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"); 

&#8226; 

reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports, proxy statements and registration statements; and 

&#8226; 

exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. 

We may take advantage of these provisions until we cease to be an emerging growth company. We will, in general, qualify as an emerging growth company until the earliest of (a) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of our separation from InvenTrust; (b) the last day of our fiscal year in which we have an annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more; (c) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; and (d) the date on which we are deemed to be a "large accelerated filer" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), which would occur at such time as we (1) have an aggregate worldwide market 

value of common equity securities held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, (2) have been required to file annual and quarterly reports under the Exchange Act for a period of at least 12 months and (3) have filed at least one annual report pursuant to the Exchange Act. 

As a result of our status as an emerging growth company, the information that we provide to our stockholders may be different than you might receive from other public reporting companies in which you hold equity interests. 

Our Tax Status 

We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("the Code") for U.S. federal income tax purposes, beginning with our short taxable year that commenced on January 5, 2015 and ended on February 3, 2015. We believe that we have been organized and will operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with such short taxable year, and we intend to continue operating in such a manner. To qualify for REIT status, we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that we annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains. 

We conduct our business through a traditional umbrella partnership real estate investment trust, or UPREIT, in which our hotels are indirectly owned by our Operating Partnership, through subsidiary limited partnerships, limited liability companies or other legal entities. We own and control 100% of the sole general partner of our Operating Partnership and own, directly or indirectly, 99.5% &#32;of the operating partnership units in our Operating Partnership, with the remaining 0.5% &#32;owned by our executive officers and members of our board of directors. In the future, we may issue additional common or preferred units in our Operating Partnership from time to time in connection with acquisitions of hotels or for financing, compensation or other reasons. 

In order for the income from our hotel operations to constitute "rents from real property" for purposes of the gross income tests required for REIT qualification, we cannot directly or indirectly operate any of our hotels. Accordingly, we lease each of our hotels, and intend to lease any hotels we acquire in the future, to our TRS lessees. As required for our qualification as a REIT, our TRS lessees have engaged third-party hotel management companies to manage our hotels on market terms. Our TRS lessees pay rent to us that we intend to treat as "rents from real property". Our TRS, which owns our TRS lessees, is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes applicable to corporations. 

We have made and InvenTrust has agreed to make a joint election under section 336(e) of the Code with respect to our spin-off from InvenTrust on February 3, 2015. As a result of that election, our tax basis in our assets was stepped up to the fair market value of each respective asset as of the date of the spin-off. The increased tax basis in our assets will increase the depreciation deductions we are allowed to claim over the useful life of our assets. 

Restrictions on Ownership and Transfer of Our Stock 

Our charter authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to enable us to qualify as a REIT. Furthermore, our charter prohibits any one person from actually or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt (prospectively or retroactively) a person from the ownership limits if certain conditions are satisfied. However, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limits to any proposed transferee whose ownership, direct or indirect, in excess of 9.8% of the value or number of outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock, could jeopardize our status as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a REIT or that compliance with such restrictions is no longer required for us to qualify as a REIT. The ownership limits may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that might be in your best interest. 

Insurance 

We or our management companies carry commercial general liability, commercial property including extended coverage and business interruption, cyber liability and umbrella liability coverage on all of our hotels and earthquake, wind, flood, hurricane and environmental coverage on hotels in areas where we believe such coverage is warranted, in each case with limits of liability that we deem adequate. Similarly, we are insured against the risk of direct physical damage in amounts we believe to be adequate to reimburse us, on a replacement basis, for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each hotel, including loss of income during the reconstruction period. We have selected policy specifications and insured limits which we believe to be appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of coverage and industry practice. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsured losses, including, but not limited to, losses caused by riots, war or acts of God. We believe our hotels are adequately insured. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 47 employees. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. Although we do not manage employees at our hotels, we are still subject to the many costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force. 

Employees at certain of our third-party managed hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to review and renewal on a regular basis. For a discussion of these relationships, see "Part I&#8211;Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8211; Risks Related to Our Business and Industry &#8211; We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ or may employ unionized labor, which could increase our operating costs, reduce the flexibility of our hotel managers to adjust the size of the workforce at our hotels and could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability." 

Where You Can Find More Information 

Our internet website is located at www.xeniareit.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports and other filings as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC, and also make available on our website the charters for the audit, executive, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees of our board of directors and our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines. Copies in print of these documents are available upon request to our secretary at the address indicated on the cover of this Annual Report. We may also use our website as a distribution channel of material company information. Financial and other important information regarding the Company is routinely accessible through and posted on the "Investor Relations" page of our website. In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about the Company when you enroll your email address by visiting the "Investor Relations" page of our website. The information on our website is not a part of, nor is it incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report. 

Copies of any materials that we have filed with the SEC can be viewed at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information regarding the operations of the Public Reference Room can be obtained from the SEC by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and other information that we have filed with the SEC. The SEC website can be found at http://www.sec.gov. 

