 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Historical Development 

Crown Marketing is a Wyoming corporation (the &#34;Company&#34;). Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated December 2, 2013, the Company acquired all of the common stock of Okra Energy, Inc., a California corporation that was subscribed for on December 2, 2013 and then incorporated on December 18, 2013, in exchange for 16,155,746,000 shares of Common Stock of the Company (the &#34;Common Stock&#34;) at the closing of the Agreement on December 3, 2013. Immediately prior to the closing, there were approximately 3,825,275,800 shares of Common Stock outstanding. After the closing, the beneficial owner of Okra Energy, Inc. shareholder, Jay Hooper, owned approximately 98.8% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company. The transaction was accounted for as a reverse merger (recapitalization) with Okra Energy, Inc. deemed to be the accounting acquirer and the Company deemed to be the legal acquirer. The financial statements presented herein are those of the accounting acquirer. The Company subsequently changed its name from Crown Marketing to Okra, Inc., but later changed the name of the Company back to Crown Marketing. 

Concurrently with the merger, Jay Hooper was appointed as the sole director and President of the Company. 

Through its subsidiary, Crown Laboratory Inc., the Company leased a warehouse in El Monte, California. The warehouse is owned by Temple CB LLC, ( &#8220; Temple CB &#8221; ), a single member limited liability company owned by the Company &#8217; s President and majority shareholder. In October 2016, the Company and Temple CB agreed to terminate the lease effective as of July 1, 2016. The Company ceased using the premises prior to July 1, 2016. In the future, the Company may plan to lease and sublease the warehouse but will require approximately $1 million and up to 12 months to complete remediation and a building refit prior to being able to re-lease the warehouse building to customers.

The Company continues to expand its business activities. A new subsidiary, Crown Laboratory Inc., has been formed to develop and market consumer products, including the Company &#8217; s brand of household good and home electronics under the trademark Crown Laboratory &#8482; as well as Chinese and other herbal remedies. Initial capitalization of $10,000 was provided by a loan from an entity controlled by the Company &#8217; s President. The loan is due on demand and bears interest at 4%. We expect to require additional funding for this business segment and have already commenced obtaining FDA approval for our products. In August, 2015, the lessor of the Company &#8217; s premises, which is also a related party, loaned $500,000 to Crown Laboratory.

In March 2015, the Company also began a joint venture, Crown Mobile, in which the Company owns a 50% interest. Crown Mobile is a MVNO (mobile virtual network operator) and markets Crown Mobile prepaid mobile telephone service using T-Mobile &#8217; s wireless network. Crown Mobile intends to offer ancillary services such as a proprietary debit card. The Company disposed of its interest in Crown Mobile during the quarter ended December 31, 2015.

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Okra Energy and Crown Laboratory. Intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.

Our Business 

Crown Marketing is a United States-based publicly traded company, ticker symbol CWNM. Our goal is to grow not only internally, but by acquisition of growth companies which we believe will generate above-average returns on capital. Currently, we have one operating division.

Crown Laboratory Inc. develops and markets consumer products, both wholesale and also through our online store, www.crownoutlet.com. Crown Outlet is not an ordinary online store. It includes Crown Labs &#8217; own brand of quality products, including 32-65 &#8221; HD 4K flat screen televisions, energy-saving light bulbs, HDTV smart boxes, a line of super-lightweight portable battery chargers, and our own patent-pending cell phone holder. Crown Laboratory is constantly seeking new products to offer to its customers at unbelievably low prices. Crown Laboratory &#8217; s low prices are possible because we sell factory-direct. Now offering products to North American customers, Crown Outlet is expanding abroad as well. .

Okra Energy Inc. is primarily engaged in research and development of sustainable energy solutions.

We recently formed a new division, Italiano for fashion footwear and apparel, and plan to form a subsidiary under the name &#8220; Italiano, Inc. &#8221; We expect to introduce new men &#8217; s, women &#8217; s and youth lines for this label.

Our historical business was in Southern California real estate. Through its subsidiary, Crown Laboratory Inc., the Company leased a warehouse in El Monte, California. The warehouse is owned by Temple CB LLC, ( &#8220; Temple CB &#8221; ), a single member limited liability company owned by the Company &#8217; s President and majority shareholder. In October 2016, the Company and Temple CB agreed to terminate the lease effective as of July 1, 2016. The Company ceased using the premises prior to July 1, 2016. In the future, the Company may plan to lease and sublease the warehouse but will require approximately $1 million and up to 12 months to complete remediation and a building refit prior to being able to re-lease the warehouse building to customers.

We have adopted a strategy of growth through acquisitions in part due to the difficulty many growing companies have in coping with the challenges of growth. These challenges include access to capital and organizational resources, which Crown Marketing believes we have available due to our status as a public company and our managerial experience.

Because we are ourselves a smaller company, we plan to focus on acquisitions of small to medium sized enterprises which appear to be ready to grow. We don &#8217; t plan to issue cash dividends in the near future. Management acknowledges that there are risks to every business, and will seek to plan for those risks. One of the strategies we hope to employ to lessen risk is to diversify our holdings among a variety of industries.

We believe that it is a mistake to enter into an acquisition based on the accounting treatment of a potential transaction. The focus, we believe, should be on the potential intrinsic value: the discounted value of cash that can be taken out of one of our acquisitions. Our goal is long-term value for stockholders.

Crown Laboratory looks for good quality consumer products at fantastic prices &#8212; the products that YOU use every day. We are small now, but growing. Most importantly, we have a great team that really wants to grow the company. We don &#8217; t have fancy offices. We work out of a warehouse in beautiful El Monte, east of Los Angeles. Our overhead is low. The savings are passed on to you.

Employees and Outside Services 

The Company's only employee at the present time is its sole executive officer and director, who devotes full time to the affairs of the Company. Remaining administrative (non-policy making) officers and consultants and technical personnel such as marketing specialists are being compensated as independent contractors. We pay these persons on a contract basis as required.

Competition 

The company competes with other companies that sell consumer products, such as vaping equipment and balance scooters, along with other consumer products. Our new Italiano brand will compete against companies with far more resources in the fashion footwear and apparel markets.

