 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

The Company and the Operating Partnership 

Tanger Factory Outlet Centers, Inc. and subsidiaries is one of the largest owners and operators of outlet centers in the United States and Canada. We are a fully-integrated, self-administered and self-managed REIT, which focuses exclusively on developing, acquiring, owning, operating and managing outlet shopping centers. As of December 31, 2015 , our consolidated portfolio consisted of 34 &#32;outlet centers, with a total gross leasable area of approximately 11.7 million &#32;square feet, which were 97% &#32;occupied and contained over 2,400 &#32;stores representing approximately 400 &#32;store brands. We also had partial ownership interests in 9 &#32;unconsolildated outlet centers totaling approximately 2.7 million &#32;square feet, including 4 &#32;outlet centers in Canada. 

Our outlet centers and other assets are held by, and all of our operations are conducted by, Tanger Properties Limited Partnership and subsidiaries. The Company owns the majority of the units of partnership interest issued by the Operating Partnership, through its two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Tanger GP Trust and Tanger LP Trust. Tanger GP Trust controls the Operating Partnership as its sole general partner. Tanger LP Trust holds a limited partnership interest. 

As of December 31, 2015 , the Company, through its ownership of the Tanger GP and Tanger LP Trusts, owned 95,880,825 &#32;units of the Operating Partnership and the Non-Company LPs collectively owned 5,052,743 &#32;Class A common limited partnership units. Each Class A common limited partnership unit held by the Non-Company LPs is exchangeable for one of the Company's common shares, subject to certain limitations to preserve the Company's status as a REIT. Class B common limited partnership units, which are held by Tanger LP Trust, are not exchangeable for common shares of the Company. 

Ownership of the Company's common shares is restricted to preserve the Company's status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Subject to certain exceptions, a person may not actually or constructively own more than 4% of our common shares. We also operate in a manner intended to enable us to preserve our status as a REIT, including, among other things, making distributions with respect to our then outstanding common shares and preferred shares, if applicable, equal to at least 90% of our taxable income each year. 

The Company is a North Carolina corporation that was incorporated in March 1993 and the Operating Partnership is a North Carolina partnership that was formed in May 1993. Our executive offices are currently located at 3200 Northline Avenue, Suite 360, Greensboro, North Carolina, 27408 and our telephone number is (336) 292-3010. Our website can be accessed at www.tangeroutlet.com. &#32;&#32;A copy of our 10-Ks, 10-Qs, 8-Ks and any amendments thereto can be obtained, free of charge, on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this annual report on Form 10-K or any other report or document we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

&#32;5 

Recent Developments 

New Development of Consolidated Outlet Centers 

Foxwoods 

In May 2015, we opened an approximately 312,000 &#32;square foot outlet center at the Foxwoods Resort Casino in Mashantucket, Connecticut. We own a controlling interest in the joint venture which is consolidated for financial reporting purposes. As of December 31, 2015 , our partner&#8217;s equity contributions totaled approximately $1.0 million &#32;and our equity contributions totaled approximately $58.8 million . Contributions we make in excess of $40.0 million &#32;earn a preferred rate of return of 15% &#32;from the date of contribution. In addition, each partner earns a rate of return of &#32; 10% &#32; on their initial capital contributions from the date of contribution. Under the terms of the joint venture's operating agreement, upon liquidation, we would receive all of our unreturned contributions and all unpaid returns earned on those contributions prior to any distributions being made to our partner. Accordingly, we expect our current economic interest in the venture's cash flow to be greater than our legal ownership percentage of 67% . As of December 31, 2015 , based upon the liquidation proceeds we would receive from a hypothetical liquidation of our investment based on depreciated book value, our economic interest would represent substantially all of the economic benefit of the property. Our economic interest may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including mortgage financing, partnership capital contributions and distributions, and proceeds from asset sales . &#32; 

In December 2014, the consolidated joint venture closed on a mortgage loan with the ability to borrow up to $70.3 million &#32; at an interest rate of LIBOR + 1.65% . &#32;The loan initially matures in December 2017, with &#32; two &#32; one -year extension options. &#32;As of December 31, 2015, the balance on the loan was $70.3 million . 

Grand Rapids 

In July 2015, we opened an approximately 352,000 &#32;square foot wholly-owned outlet center near Grand Rapids, Michigan. The outlet center is located 11 &#32;miles south of downtown Grand Rapids at the southwest quadrant of US-131 and 84th Street in Byron Township, Michigan, with visibility from both roads. &#32; 

Southaven 

In November 2015, we opened an approximately 320,000 &#32;square foot outlet center in Southaven, Mississippi. In January 2015, we purchased land for approximately $14.8 million &#32; and commenced construction on the development of Tanger Outlets Southaven, which is located less than five &#32;miles south of Memphis, Tennessee. We own a controlling interest in the joint venture which is consolidated for financial reporting purposes. As of December 31, 2015 , our partner&#8217;s equity contributions totaled approximately $461,000 &#32; and our equity contributions totaled approximately $26.5 million . From the date our equity contributions are made, we earn a preferred rate of return of 10% &#32;for senior contributions and &#32; 14% &#32;for junior contributions. As of December 31, 2015 , the balance of our senior contributions was $17.7 million &#32;and our junior contributions was $8.3 million . 

Under the terms of the joint venture's operating agreement, upon liquidation, we would receive all of our unreturned contributions and all unpaid returns earned on those contributions prior to any distributions being made to our partner. Accordingly, we expect our current economic interest in the venture's cash flow to be greater than our legal ownership percentage of 50% . As of December 31, 2015, based upon the liquidation proceeds we would receive from a hypothetical liquidation of our investment based on depreciated book value, our economic interest would represent substantially all of the economic benefit of the property. Our economic interest may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including mortgage financing, partnership capital contributions and distributions, and proceeds from asset sales . &#32;&#32; &#32; 

In April 2015, the consolidated joint venture closed on a mortgage loan with the ability to borrow up to $60.0 million &#32;at an interest rate of LIBOR + 1.75% . The loan initially matures on April 29, 2018, with one &#32; two -year extension option. As of December 31, 2015 , the balance on the loan was $45.8 million . 

&#32;6 

Daytona Beach 

In November 2015, we purchased land for approximately $9.9 million &#32; and commenced construction on the development of a wholly owned outlet center in Daytona Beach, Florida. The outlet center is expected to be approximately &#32; 352,000 &#32; square feet and to open by Holiday 2016. &#32; 

Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures 

Westgate 

In November 2012, we opened our Westgate outlet center, located in Glendale, Arizona, which was developed through, and currently owned by, a joint venture that was formed in May 2012. 

During the first quarter of 2015, the joint venture completed the remaining 28,000 &#32;square feet of a &#32; 78,000 &#32;square foot expansion of the existing property which upon completion increased the total square feet of the outlet center to approximately 411,000 &#32;square feet. Construction commenced on the expansion during the second quarter of 2014 and was funded with borrowings under the amended Westgate mortgage loan. The joint venture's amended and restated construction loan is fully funded with a balance of &#32; $62.0 million &#32; as of December 31, 2015. The loan initially matured in June 2015, and during the second quarter of 2015 the joint venture exercised the &#32; two &#32;year option to extend the maturity date of the loan to June 2017. 

Savannah 

In April 2015, we opened an approximately 377,000 &#32;square foot outlet center in Savannah, Georgia. &#32; As of December 31, 2015 , our equity contributions totaled $45.8 million &#32;and our partner&#8217;s equity contributions totaled $8.3 million . Contributions we made in excess of our partners' equity contributions are considered preferred equity and earned a preferred rate of return equal to 8% &#32; from the date the contributions were made until the outlet center&#8217;s grand opening in April 2015, and will earn 10% &#32; annually thereafter. Under the terms of the joint venture's operating agreement, upon liquidation, we would receive all of our unreturned preferred equity contributions and all unpaid returns earned on those contributions prior to any distributions being made to our equity partner. As of December 31, 2015 , based upon the liquidation proceeds we would receive from a hypothetical liquidation of our investment based at depreciated book value, our estimated economic interest in the venture was approximately 98% . Our economic interest may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including mortgage financing, partnership capital contributions and distributions, and proceeds from asset sales . &#32; 

In May 2014, the joint venture closed on a construction loan with the ability to borrow up to $97.7 million &#32;at an interest rate of LIBOR + 1.65% . In September 2015, the loan maximum borrowing amount was increased to $100.9 million . The construction loan has a maturity date of May 21, 2017, with two , one &#32; -year extension options. As of December 31, 2015 , the balance on the loan was $89.5 million . The additional $11.4 million &#32;is available for construction of the approximately 42,000 &#32;square foot expansion that is currently in process. 

Columbus 

During the second quarter of 2015, the joint venture purchased land for approximately &#32; $8.9 million &#32;and began construction on a 350,000 square foot outlet center in Columbus, Ohio. We and our partner currently expect to complete construction in time to open the center during the second quarter of 2016. The construction of the center is currently being funded with equity contributions from the partners. As of &#32; December 31, 2015 , we and our partner had each contributed $20.6 million &#32;to fund development activities . &#32; 

&#32;7 

Dispositions of Consolidated Outlet Centers and sale of our Interest in an Unconsolidated Outlet Center 

Wisconsin Dells 

In February 2015, we sold our equity interest in the joint venture that owned the outlet center located in Wisconsin Dells, Wisconsin for approximately $15.6 million , representing our share of the sales price totaling $27.7 million &#32;less our share of the outstanding debt, which totaled $12.1 million . As a result of this transaction, we recorded a gain of approximately &#32; $13.7 million &#32; in the first quarter of 2015, which represents the difference between the carrying value of our equity method investment and the net proceeds received. &#32; 

Kittery I&#38;II, Tuscola, West Branch, and Barstow 

During 2015, we sold five outlet centers for net proceeds of approximately $149.1 million , and recognized a gain of approximately $106.7 million . The outlet centers were located in Kittery, Maine (two centers); Tuscola, Illinois; West Branch, Michigan; and Barstow, California. 

As of December 31, 2015, approximately $121.3 million of these proceeds were held by a qualified intermediary and thus have been classified as restricted cash on our consolidated balance sheets. During January 2016, we used a portion of these proceeds along with amounts under our unsecured lines of credit: 

&#8226; 

To repay a $150.0 million floating rate mortgage loan and a $28.4 million &#32;deferred financing obligation, both of which are related to our 749,000 &#32;square foot outlet center in Deer Park, New York. These transactions allowed us to unencumber the Deer Park asset while simultaneously deferring a significant portion of the gains related to the asset sales for tax purposes. 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

To pay a special dividend to our share and unit holders of $0.21 per share on January 15, 2016. 

We plan on investing the remaining sales proceeds, totaling approximately $16.8 million, in qualified replacement property, including the ongoing construction of our wholly-owned new outlet center development project in Daytona Beach. 

Fort Myers 

In January 2016, we sold our outlet center in Fort Myers, Florida located near Sanibel Island for net proceeds of approximately &#32; $25.8 million . We estimate the gain to be recognized in the first quarter of 2016 to be approximately $4.9 million . The proceeds from the sale of this unencumbered asset were used to pay down balances outstanding under our unsecured lines of credit . 

From time to time, we may sell one or more outlet centers or joint venture interests that do not meet our long-term investment criteria. We have not entered into a binding contract and have not obtained approval from our Board of Directors to sell any additional outlet centers or joint venture interests, thus we can give no assurance that any additional sales will be completed. 

Financing Transactions 

Deer Park 

In connection with the acquisition of the Deer Park property in 2013, we and the noncontrolling interest entered into an agreement whereby they may require us to acquire their ownership interest in the property on the second anniversary of the acquisition date for a price of $28.4 million , and we had the option to acquire their ownership interest on the fourth anniversary of the acquisition date at the same price. On September 30, 2015, the noncontrolling interest in our Deer Park outlet center exercised its right to require us to acquire its ownership interest. As of December 31, 2015, the obligation to acquire its interest was recorded as a deferred financing obligation in the other liabilities section of our consolidated balance sheet. The transaction closed on January 5, 2016. 

&#32;8 

Extension of Unsecured Lines of Credit 

We maintain unsecured lines of credit that provide for borrowings of up to $520.0 million. The unsecured lines of credit include a $20.0 million liquidity line and a $500.0 million syndicated line. In October 2015, we closed on amendments to our unsecured lines of credit, extending the maturity and reducing our interest rate. The maturity date of these facilities was extended from October 2017 to October 2019 with the ability to further extend the maturity date for an additional year at our option. The interest rate was reduced from LIBOR + &#32; 1.00% &#32; to LIBOR + &#32; 0.90% &#32; based on our current credit rating and the maximum borrowings to which the syndicated line could be increased through an accordion feature in certain circumstances was increased from &#32; $750.0 million &#32;to &#32; $1.0 billion . Loan origination costs associated with the amendments totaled approximately &#32; $2.0 million . 

Board of Directors and Management Changes 

In October 2015, our Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, voted to expand, effective January 1, 2016, the number of positions on the Company's board of directors from eight to nine and elected David B. Henry as a director to fill the vacancy, effective January 1, 2016. Mr. Henry is the recently retired Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Kimco Realty Corporation. Mr. Henry will serve as a director until the next annual meeting of shareholders or until his successor is elected and qualified. 

&#160; 

In October 2015, Frank C. Marchisello, Jr., the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and the Vice President and Treasurer of the Operating Partnership, notified us that he will retire, effective May 20, 2016. James F. Williams, the Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company and the Vice President and Assistant Treasurer of the Operating Partnership will succeed Mr. Marchisello as the Chief Financial Officer of the Company and the Vice President and Treasurer of the Operating Partnership effective May 20, 2016. 

The Outlet Concept 

Outlets are stores operated by manufacturers and brand name retailers that sell primarily first quality, branded products, some of which are made specifically for the outlet distribution channel, to consumers at significant discounts from regular retail prices charged by department stores and specialty stores. Outlet centers offer advantages to manufacturers and brand name retailers as they are often able to charge customers lower prices for brand name and designer products by eliminating the third party retailer. Outlet centers also typically have lower operating costs than other retailing formats, enhancing their profit potential. Outlet centers enable them to optimize the size of production runs while continuing to maintain control of their distribution channels. 

We believe that outlet centers will continue to present attractive opportunities for capital investment in the long-term. We further believe, based upon our contacts with present and prospective tenants that many companies will continue to utilize the outlet concept as a profitable distribution vehicle. However, due to present economic conditions and the potential for increased competition from other developers announcing plans to develop outlet centers, new developments or expansions may not provide an initial return on investment as high as has been historically achieved. 

Our Outlet Centers 

Each of our outlet centers, except one joint venture property, carries the Tanger brand name. We believe that our tenants and consumers recognize the Tanger brand as one that provides outlet shopping centers where consumers can trust the brand, quality and price of the merchandise they purchase directly from the manufacturers and brand name retailers. 

As one of the original participants in this industry, we have established long-standing relationships with many of our tenants that we believe is critical in developing and operating successful outlet centers. 

Our consolidated outlet centers range in size from 82,161 &#32;to 749,074 &#32;square feet and are typically located at least 10 miles from major department stores and manufacturer-owned, full-price retail stores. Historically, manufacturers prefer these locations so that they do not compete directly with their major customers and their own stores. Many of our outlet centers are located near tourist destinations to attract tourists who consider shopping to be a recreational activity. Additionally, our centers are often situated in close proximity to interstate highways that provide accessibility and visibility to potential customers. 

&#32;9 

We have a diverse tenant base throughout our consolidated portfolio, comprised of approximately 400 &#32;different well-known, upscale, national designer or brand name concepts, such as American Eagle Outfitters, Banana Republic Factory Store, Barneys New York, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Giorgio Armani, Hugo Boss Factory Store, J. Crew, Kate Spade New York, Lululemon Athletica, Michael Kors, Nike Factory Store, North Face, Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour, Victoria&#8217;s Secret, Vineyard Vines and others. 

No single tenant, including all of its store concepts, accounted for 10% or more of our combined base and percentage rental revenues during 2015, 2014 or 2013. As of December 31, 2015 , no single tenant accounted for more than 7.5% &#32;of our leasable square feet or 6.0% &#32;of our combined base and percentage rental revenues. Because many of our tenants are large, multinational manufacturers or retailers, we generally do not experience material losses with respect to rent collections or lease defaults. 

Only small portions of our revenues are dependent on contingent revenue sources. Revenues from fixed rents and operating expense reimbursements accounted for approximately 91% of our total revenues in 2015 . Revenues from contingent sources, such as percentage rents, vending income and miscellaneous income, accounted for approximately 9% of our total revenues in 2015 . 

Business History 

Stanley K. Tanger, the Company's founder, entered the outlet center business in 1981. Prior to founding our company, Stanley K. Tanger and his son, Steven B. Tanger, our President and Chief Executive Officer, built and managed a successful family owned apparel manufacturing business, Tanger/Creighton, Inc., which included the operation of five outlet stores. Based on their knowledge of the apparel and retail industries, as well as their experience operating Tanger/Creighton, Inc.'s outlet stores, they recognized that there would be a demand for outlet centers where a number of manufacturers could operate in a single location and attract a large number of shoppers. 

Steven B. Tanger joined the Company in 1986, and by June 1993, the Tangers had developed 17 outlet centers totaling approximately 1.5 million square feet. In June 1993, we completed our initial public offering, making Tanger Factory Outlet Centers, Inc. the first publicly traded outlet center company. Since our initial public offering, we have grown our portfolio through the strategic development, expansion and acquisition of outlet centers and are now one of the largest owner operators of outlet centers in the United States and Canada. 

Business Strategy 

Our company has been built on a firm foundation of strong and enduring business relationships coupled with conservative business practices. We partner with many of the world's best known and most respected retailers and manufacturers. By fostering and maintaining strong tenant relationships with these successful, high volume companies, we have been able to solidify our position as a leader in the outlet industry for well over a quarter century. The confidence and trust that we have developed with our retail partners from the very beginning has allowed us to forge the impressive retail alliances that we enjoy today with our brand name retailers and manufacturers. 

We have had a solid track record of success in the outlet industry for the past 35 &#32;years. In 1993, Tanger led the way by becoming the industry's first outlet center company to be publicly traded. Our seasoned team of real estate professionals utilize the knowledge and experience that we have gained to give us a competitive advantage in the outlet business. 

As of December 31, 2015 , our consolidated outlet centers were 97% &#32;occupied with average tenant sales of $395 &#32;per square foot. Our portfolio of properties has had an average occupancy rate of 95% or greater on December 31st of each year since 1981. We believe our ability to achieve this level of performance is a testament to our long-standing tenant relationships, industry experience and our expertise in the development, leasing and operation of outlet centers. 

&#32;10 

Growth Strategy 

Our goal is to build shareholder value through a comprehensive, conservative plan for sustained, long-term growth. We focus our efforts on increasing rents in our existing outlet centers, renovating and expanding selected outlet centers and reaching new markets through ground-up developments or acquisitions of existing outlet centers. We expect new development to continue to be important to the growth of our portfolio in the long-term. Future outlet centers may be wholly-owned by us or developed through joint venture arrangements. 

Increasing rents at existing outlet centers 

Our leasing team focuses on the marketing of available space to maintain our standard for high occupancy levels. Leases are negotiated to provide for inflation-based contractual rent increases or periodic fixed contractual rent increases and percentage rents. Due to the overall high performance of our outlet shopping centers, we have historically been able to renew leases at higher base rents per square-foot and attract stronger, more popular brands to replace underperforming tenants. 

Developing new outlet centers 

We believe that there continue to be opportunities to introduce the Tanger brand in untapped or under-served markets across the United States and Canada in the long-term. We believe our 35 &#32;years of outlet industry experience, extensive development expertise and strong retail relationships give us a distinct competitive advantage. 

In order to identify new markets across North America, we follow a general set of guidelines when evaluating opportunities for the development of new outlet centers. This typically includes seeking locations within markets that have at least 1 million people residing within a 30 to 40 mile radius with an average household income of at least $65,000 per year, frontage on a major interstate or roadway that has excellent visibility and a traffic count of at least 55,000 cars per day. Leading tourist, vacation and resort markets that receive at least 5 million visitors annually are also closely evaluated. Although our current goal is to target sites that are large enough to support outlet centers with approximately 90 stores totaling at least 350,000 square feet, we maintain the flexibility to vary our minimum requirements based on the unique characteristics of a site, tenant demand and our prospects for future growth and success. 

In order to help ensure the viability of proceeding with a project, we gauge the interest of our retail partners first. We typically prefer to have signed leases or leases out for negotiation with tenants for at least 50% of the space in each outlet center prior to acquiring the site and beginning construction; however, we may choose to proceed with construction with less than 50% of the space pre-leased under certain circumstances. Construction of a new outlet center has typically taken us nine to twelve months from groundbreaking to grand opening of the outlet center. 

Expanding and renovating existing outlet centers 

Keeping our outlet shopping centers vibrant and growing is a key part of our formula for success. In order to maintain our reputation as the premiere outlet shopping destination in the markets that we serve, we have an ongoing program of renovations and expansions taking place at our outlet centers. Construction for expansion and renovation to existing properties typically takes less time, usually between six to nine months depending on the scope of the project. 

Acquiring Outlet Centers 

As a means of creating a presence in key markets and to create shareholder value, we may selectively choose to acquire individual properties or portfolios of properties that meet our strategic investment criteria. We believe that our extensive experience in the outlet center business, access to capital markets, familiarity with real estate markets and our management experience will allow us to evaluate and execute our acquisition strategy successfully over time. Through our tenant relationships, our leasing professionals have the ability to implement a re-merchandising strategy when needed to increase occupancy rates and value. We believe that our managerial skills, marketing expertise and overall outlet industry experience will also allow us to add long-term value and viability to these outlet centers. 

&#32;11 

Operating Strategy 

Increasing cash flow to enhance the value of our properties and operations remains a primary business objective. Through targeted marketing and operational efficiencies, we strive to improve sales and profitability of our tenants and our outlet centers as a whole. Achieving higher base and percentage rents and generating additional income from temporary leasing, vending and other sources also remains an important focus and goal. 

Leasing 

Our long-standing retailer relationships and our focus on identifying emerging retailers allow us the ability to provide our shoppers with a collection of the world's most popular outlet stores. Tanger customers shop and save on their favorite brand name merchandise including men's, women's and children's ready-to-wear, lifestyle apparel, footwear, jewelry and accessories, tableware, housewares, luggage and domestic goods. In order for our outlet centers to perform at a high level, our leasing professionals continually monitor and evaluate tenant mix, store size, store location and sales performance. They also work to assist our tenants through re-sizing and re-location of retail space within each of our outlet centers for maximum sales of each retail unit across our portfolio. 

Marketing 

&#160; 

Our marketing plans deliver compelling, well-crafted messages and enticing promotions and events to targeted audiences for tangible, meaningful and measurable results. Our plans are based on a basic measure of success - increase sales and traffic for our retail partners and we will create successful outlet centers. Utilizing a strategic mix of print, radio, television, direct mail, our consumer website, Internet advertising, social networks, mobile applications and public relations, we consistently reinforce the Tanger brand. Our marketing efforts are also designed to build loyalty with current Tanger shoppers and create awareness with potential customers. The majority of consumer-marketing expenses incurred by us are reimbursable by our tenants. 

Capital Strategy 

We believe we achieve a strong and flexible financial position by attempting to: (1) maintain a conservative leverage position relative to our portfolio when pursuing new development, expansion and acquisition opportunities, (2) extend and sequence debt maturities, (3) manage our interest rate risk through a proper mix of fixed and variable rate debt, (4) maintain access to liquidity by using our lines of credit in a conservative manner and (5) preserve internally generated sources of capital by strategically divesting of our non-core assets and maintaining a conservative distribution payout ratio. We manage our capital structure to reflect a long-term investment approach and utilize multiple sources of capital to meet our requirements. &#32; 

We intend to retain the ability to raise additional capital, including public debt or equity, to pursue attractive investment opportunities that may arise and to otherwise act in a manner that we believe to be in the best interests of our shareholders and unit holders. The Company is a well-known seasoned issuer with a shelf registration that allows us to register unspecified amounts of different classes of securities on Form S-3. To generate capital to reinvest into other attractive investment opportunities, we may also consider the use of additional operational and developmental joint ventures, the sale or lease of outparcels on our existing properties and the sale of certain properties that do not meet our long-term investment criteria. Based on cash provided by operations, existing lines of credit, ongoing relationships with certain financial institutions and our ability to sell debt or issue equity subject to market conditions, we believe that we have access to the necessary financing to fund our planned capital expenditures during 2016. 

&#160; 

We anticipate that adequate cash will be available to fund our operating and administrative expenses, regular debt service obligations, and the payment of dividends in accordance with REIT requirements in both the short and long-term. Although we receive most of our rental payments on a monthly basis, distributions to shareholders and unitholders are made quarterly and interest payments on the senior, unsecured notes are made semi-annually. Amounts accumulated for such payments will be used in the interim to reduce the outstanding borrowings under our existing lines of credit or invested in short-term money market or other suitable instruments adhering to our investment policies. 

&#32;12 

We believe our current balance sheet position is financially sound; however, due to the uncertainty and unpredictability of the capital and credit markets, we can give no assurance that affordable access to capital will exist between now and 2019 when our next significant debt maturity occurs. As a result, our current primary focus is to continually strengthen our capital and liquidity position by controlling and reducing construction and overhead costs, generating positive cash flows from operations to cover our distributions and reducing outstanding debt. 

Competition 

We carefully consider the degree of existing and planned competition in a proposed area before deciding to develop, acquire or expand a new outlet center. Our outlet centers compete for customers primarily with outlet centers built and operated by different developers, traditional shopping malls, full-and off-price retailers and to a certain extent e-commerce retailers. However, we believe that the majority of our customers visit outlet centers because they are intent on buying name-brand products at discounted prices. Traditional full-and off-price retailers and e-commerce retailers are often unable to provide such a variety of name-brand products at attractive prices. 

Tenants of outlet centers typically avoid direct competition with major retailers and their own specialty stores, and, therefore, generally insist that the outlet centers not be within a close proximity of a major department store or the tenants' own specialty stores. For this reason, our outlet centers generally compete only to a limited extent with traditional malls in or near metropolitan areas. 

We compete with institutional pension funds, private equity investors, other REITs, small owners of outlet centers, specialty stores and others who are engaged in the acquisition, development or ownership of outlet centers and stores. In addition, the number of entities competing to acquire or develop outlet centers has increased and may continue to increase in the future, which could increase demand for these outlet centers and the prices we must pay to acquire or develop them. Nevertheless, we believe the high barriers to entry in the outlet industry, including the need for extensive relationships with premier manufacturers and brand name retailers, will continue to minimize the number of new outlet centers developed each year. 

Financial Information 

As of December 31, 2015 , and 2014 , we had one reportable operating segment. For financial information regarding our segment, see our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Corporate and Regional Headquarters 

We rent space in an office building in Greensboro, North Carolina where our corporate headquarters is located as well as a regional office in Miami, Florida. 

As of February 1, 2016, we maintain offices and employ on-site managers at 37 consolidated and unconsolidated outlet centers. The managers closely monitor the operation, marketing and local relationships at each of their outlet centers. 

Insurance 

We believe that as a whole our properties are covered by adequate comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake and extended loss insurance provided by reputable companies with commercially reasonable and customary deductibles and limits. Northline Indemnity, LLC, ("Northline"), a wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, is responsible for losses up to certain levels for property damage (including wind damage from hurricanes) prior to third-party insurance coverage. Specified types and amounts of insurance are required to be carried by each tenant under their lease. There are however, types of losses, like those resulting from wars or nuclear radiation, which may either be uninsurable or not economically insurable in some or all of our locations. An uninsured loss could result in a loss to us of both our capital investment and anticipated profits from the affected property. 

&#32;13 

Employees 

As of February 1, 2016, we had 291 full-time employees, located at our corporate headquarters in North Carolina, our regional office in Miami and 37 business offices. At that date, we also employed 334 part-time employees at various locations. 

