 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

Corporate History and Restructuring

We are a holding corporation that owns one hundred percent (100%) of a diagnostic medical device company specializing in discovering, developing and commercializing specialty medical devices. We were organized on December 24, 2013 under the laws of the State of Nevada. \We own one hundred percent (100%) of Region Green Limited, a British Virgin Islands corporation formed on December 12, 2013. Region Green Limited owns one hundred percent (100%) of the stock in Dermal Diagnostic (Holdings) Limited, an England and Wales corporation formed on December 11, 2013. Dermal Diagnostics (Holdings) Limited owns one hundred percent (100%) of the stock in Dermal Diagnostics Limited, an England and Wales corporation formed on January 20, 2009, and one hundred percent (100%) of the stock in Trial Clinic Limited, an England and Wales corporation formed on January 12, 2011.

In December 2013, we restructured the Company and re-domiciled as a domestic corporation in the United States. The corporate re-organization was accomplished to preserve the tax advantages under the England and Wales tax laws for the benefit of the shareholders of both Dermal Diagnostics Limited (&#8220;DDL&#8221;) and Trial Clinic Limited (&#8220;TCL&#8221;).

DDL is a diagnostic medical device company headquartered in Loughborough, Leicestershire, England. DDL was founded on January 20, 2009 to engage in the discovery, development and commercialization of diagnostic medical devices. 

Our Products

The Company&#8217;s initial focus has been on the development of a novel continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) device which consists of a disposable patch containing a sensor, and a non-disposable miniature electronic watch with a re-chargeable power source. CGM through a non-invasive patch can enable early detection of subtle changes in blood glucose levels. In 2015 we named our device &#8216;sugarBEAT.&#8217; We currently have one (1) CGM watch product. The sugarBEAT device is the packaging for the electronics that control and receive feedback from the &#8220;sensor-patch,&#8221; which is based on our core platform technology that has both granted and pending patents. Additionally, we have identified the potential for the sugarBEAT device to be useful in mobile phone applications with wireless data transmission from the watch. 

The device applies a very small electrical current to the skin, which leads to efficient extraction of glucose from the body into a chamber in the patch. The glucose sensor detects the level of glucose and stores the data on an internal memory platform, as well as displays the glucose reading on an LCD display. An alarm is set-off when the reading is 'out of range'. The technique utilized in this device has been the subject of extensive studies with over twenty (20) clinical reports in the public domain, and is the only non-invasive technique to have been approved by both the FDA and EMEA (European Medicines Evaluation Agency). The effectiveness of the CGM device in blood sugar control facilitates therapeutic adjustments to avoid hypo-glycemic and hyper-glycemic excursions.

&#160;

Additional applications for the sugarBEAT device may include: 

&#183; Mobile Phone Application &#8211; with wireless data transmission from watch;

&#183; Development of a Web-server accessed by physicians and diabetic professionals to track the condition remotely thereby reducing healthcare costs and managing the condition more effectively;

&#183; A complete virtual doctor that monitors a person&#8217;s vital signs and transmits results via the web; and

&#183; With further investment, other patches can be developed which are able to measure alternative analytes, including lactate, uric acid, lithium and drugs. This would be a step-change in the monitoring of conditions, particularly in the hospital setting. Lactate monitoring is currently used to determine the relative fitness of professional athletes.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

Our Business Strategy

We intend to lead in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative and targeted diagnostic medical devices that improve disease monitoring, management and overall patient care. We have devoted substantially all of our efforts establishing a new business and while operations have commenced we have generated no revenue from our limited operations. We plan to take the following steps to implement our broad business strategy. Our key commercial strategies post-approval will first be implemented in Europe and then in the USA, as follows:

&#183; Develop our own specialty sales and marketing teams to market the sugarBEAT device in the European Union. We intend to develop specialty sales teams and/or enter into licensing agreements with established marketing companies for production and distribution of our product in the European Economic Area. We have a marketing rights agreement for the UK and Republic of Ireland (including the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands) with DB Pharma (Jersey) Ltd. We have also signed an agreement with Dallas Burston Pharma (Jersey) Limited to collaborate on the sale of the device to other European territories.

&#183; Expand the indications for which the sugarBEAT device may be used . We believe that the sugarBEAT device may offer significant benefits other than those found in the non-acute setting for the monitoring of other diseases. This includes monitoring of lactic acid for professional athletes, and the monitoring of drugs. We intend to complete initial proof of concept in laboratory settings followed by a clinical program.

&#183; Expand our product pipeline through our proprietary platform technologies, acquisitions and strategic licensing arrangements. We intend to leverage our proprietary platform technologies to grow our portfolio of product candidates for the diagnosis of diabetes and other diseases. In addition we intend to license our product and acquire products and technologies that are consistent with our research and development and business focus and strategies.

Product Development

Management has extensive experience in regulatory and clinical development of diagnostic medical devices. We intend to take advantage of this experience in the field of diagnostic medical devices in an attempt to increase the probability of product approval. We believe that while the overall regulatory process for diagnostic medical devices for diabetes is currently similar to those governing other diagnostic devices, the development timelines may be significantly shorter. Whereas typical clinical trials involving pharmaceuticals must be monitored over long periods (often years), diagnostic medical devices for diabetes may take significantly less time to evaluate. This shortened clinical development time relative to pharmaceuticals is a function of the speed with which a diabetes diagnostic medical device can be tested and evaluated for its clinical output, in this case the accuracy with which it can trend blood glucose levels, which is in the order of several hours and days to see the end point, as compared to several months and years when drugs undergo clinical studies. In addition, because the results are instantaneous, the clinical trials do not initially require long term follow-up for primary endpoints which otherwise would take significant periods of time to evaluate. Accordingly, we believe our clinical trials may enroll quickly and that the evaluable data will be made available to us quickly. We believe our world experience in the clinical development of diabetes diagnostic medical devices, our familiarity with the regulatory approval process in the United Kingdom and the European Union and shorter development times may allow for our first product to emerge onto the commercial markets by early 2017. As we continue to raise funds for marketing the device in some European Union territories, we will also collaborate with future licensees and marketing partners to achieve our product development and meet our projected milestones.

The table below provides our best estimate of our timeline:

&#160;

Product Development Timelines

&#160; &#160; &#160; Milestone

Target Start Date

Target Completion Date

Submission for ethics approval for clinical testing

- complete technical dossier (including electrical safety test, industrial design, electronic design and software)

- Submission for ethics approval in India

Submitted

Ethics approvals received

File algorithm patent (PCT/GB2013/051322) in all major global territories

September 1, 2014

Completed

Submission for first CE approval (with literature based clinical evaluation)

preparation ongoing

First CE approval received

Completion of clinical studies in Type I and Type II diabetic subjects to define final device claims and for submission for CE mark approval with final device claims.

October 31, 2014

October 2016

Scale up commercial sensor/patch manufacturing

October 31, 2014

December 2016

Scale up device (watch) manufacturing

October 31, 2014

December 2016

Develop sales/marketing team for Europe (excluding the United Kingdom)

January 1, 2015

April 2017

Expand indications for the sugarBEAT device (up to proof of concept in a laboratory setting)

- lactate monitoring

- drug monitoring

April 1, 2015

April 2017

Acquisition and licensing of complementary technologies to be identified in the future

ongoing

Ongoing

&#160;

&#160;

Market Opportunity for the Company&#8217;s Products

&#160;

According to the International Diabetes Federation Atlas (the &#8220;IDF&#8221;), there are approximately 382 million people in the world who have diabetes as of December 2013. The IDF is predicting that by 2035 this will rise to 592 million people. The number of people with type 2 diabetes is increasing in every country and currently eighty percent (80%) of people with diabetes live in low- and middle-income countries. The greatest number of people with diabetes is between 40 and 59 years of age.

Statistics published by the IDF report that diabetes is a huge and growing problem, and the costs to society are high and escalating. In addition, Europe has the highest prevalence of children with type 1 diabetes. 

Statistical Data for Diabetes in Europe

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160;

2035

Adult population

(20-79 years, millions)

669

Diabetes (20 &#8211; 79 years)

Regional prevalence (%)

8.5

10.3

Comparative prevalence (%)

6.8

7.1

Number of people with diabetes

(millions)

56.3

68.9

Impaired Glucose Tolerance (20 &#8211; 79 years)

Regional prevalence (%)

9.2

11.0

Comparative prevalence (%)

8.1

8.9

Number of people with IGT (millions)

60.6

73.7

Type 1 diabetes (0 &#8211; 14 years)

Number of children with type 1

diabetes (thousands)

129.4

-

Number of newly diagnosed cases per year (thousands)

20.0

-

Each year approximately 600,000 people die from diabetes in Europe.

Deaths From Diabetes

Europe has the highest incidence of children with type 1 diabetes according to data supplied from IDF.org. The top five countries for the number of people afflicted with diabetes in Europe are listed in the table below.

Top 5 Countries In Europe For People Afflicted With Diabetes 20-79 Years (2013)

&#160; &#160; Countries/Territories

Millions

Russian Federation

10.9

Germany

7.6

Turkey

Spain

3.8

Italy

3.6

&#160;

&#160;

Type 1 diabetes, once known as juvenile diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes, is a chronic condition in which the pancreas produces little or no insulin, a hormone needed to allow sugar (glucose) to enter cells to produce energy. The far more common type 2 diabetes occurs when the body becomes resistant to the effects of insulin or doesn't make enough insulin.

Various factors may contribute to type 1 diabetes including genetics and exposure to certain viruses. Although type 1 diabetes typically appears during childhood or adolescence, it also can develop in adults.

Despite active research, type 1 diabetes has no cure, although it can be managed. With proper treatment, people who have type 1 diabetes can expect to live longer, healthier lives than they did in the past. Type 1diabetes includes autoimmune type 1 diabetes (type 1a) which is characterized by having positive autoantibodies, as well as idiopathic type 1 diabetes (type 1b) where autoantibodies are negative and c-peptide is low. Patients with type 1 diabetes (insulin dependent) require long term treatment with exogenous insulin and these patients perform self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) to calculate the appropriate dose of insulin. SMBG is done by using blood samples obtained by finger sticks but frequent SMBG does not detect all the significant deviations in blood glucose, specifically in patients who have rapidly fluctuating glucose levels.

Type 2 diabetes, once known as adult-onset or noninsulin-dependent diabetes, is a chronic condition that affects the way your body metabolizes sugar (glucose), your body's main source of fuel. With type 2 diabetes, your body either resists the effects of insulin, a hormone that regulates the movement of sugar into your cells, or doesn't produce enough insulin to maintain a normal glucose level. Untreated, type 2 diabetes can be life-threatening.

More common in adults, type 2 diabetes increasingly affects children as childhood obesity increases. There's no cure for type 2 diabetes, but it can be managed by eating well, exercising and maintaining a healthy weight. If diet and exercise don't control the blood sugar, diabetes medications or insulin therapy may be required.

Each year, millions of patients undergo diabetes testing in the European Union and in the United States. The main reason for this testing is to detect and evaluate diabetes in patients with symptoms of diabetes. These studies provide clinical benefit in the initial evaluation of patients with suspected but unproven diabetes, and in those patients in whom a diagnosis of diabetes has been established and information on prognosis or risk is required.

We believe that our market opportunity is a direct function of the number of persons tested, diagnosed and treated for either type 1 or type 2 diabetes. The IDF indicates that the total world market opportunity for a continuous glucose monitoring device is in the billions of dollars and is projected to grow annually through the year 2035. We estimate the potential market opportunity five years following the approval of our first product at between $1billion and $7 billion annually.

Market Opportunity

We do not believe it is possible to estimate the number of diabetes patients that undergo finger pricks or other types of invasive glucose monitoring. However, we are unaware of any product currently on the market that may allow for non-invasive continuous glucose monitoring. We believe the sugarBEAT device may be readily adopted by the medical community for continuous assessment of a patient.

We believe our non-invasive sugarBEAT device possesses many significant advantages and may represent an ideal device for the detection of discordances in an individual&#8217;s blood sugar levels, and the identification of jeopardized hyper and hypo glycemic excursions. If approved for commercialization, we believe the sugarBEAT device may represent a best in class non-invasive continuous glucose monitoring device to reach those afflicted with diabetes. While we cannot estimate the market share that our sugarBEAT device may capture, we believe that the sugarBEAT device will capture a significant share of the non-invasive continuous glucose monitoring market.

Commercialization Plan

We intend to develop our products through the completion of stage II studies and/or stage III studies, designed to verify the claims that the device may be used as an adjunct to a finger-stick measurement, at which point we will seek to partner with organizations that may facilitate the further development and distribution of our products. We also intend to seek strategic partners early in the research and development cycle for programs that may fall outside of our core competencies.

&#160;

Competition

We expect to compete with several medical device manufacturing companies including Dexcom, Abbott, Echo and Medtronic. Our competitors may: 

&#183; develop and market products that are less expensive or more effective than our future product;

&#183; commercialize competing products before we or our partners can launch any products developed by us;

&#183; operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do;

&#183; initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can;

&#183; have greater success in recruiting skilled technical and scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent;

&#183; more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic relationships; and

&#183; take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can.

We will compete for market share against large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their partners, may develop new products that will compete with ours, and these competitors may, and in certain cases do, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do.

We anticipate that we will have competition from specific companies. Although it is difficult to analyze our major competitors since currently there are no non-invasive diagnostic medical devices to continuously monitor blood glucose levels, we anticipate that specific companies may compete with us in the future. Echo Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ: ECTE) has developed the Symphony CGM System for use in the hospital critical care environment. This device is for continuous glucose blood level monitoring in a critical care environment in hospitals. This device does require the removal of the top layer of skin. As a result we do not believe this device is a direct competitor of our product and there have been no indications that it will receive product approval in Europe or US in the near term.

Competitor Data

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Feature

Abbott FreeStyle Navigator

MiniMed Paradigm&#174; REAL-Time System

MiniMed Guardian&#174; REAL-Time System

DexCom&#8482; SEVEN&#174; PLUS

Availability

Across the EU

Across the EU

United States Only

Across the EU

CE approval

June 6, 2007

CE marked in 2012

Non CE approved as of June 2014

CE marked in 2009

Communicates with an insulin pump

No

Yes

No

No

Accuracy*

98% readings are clinically significant i.e. are accurate

98% readings are clinically significant i.e. are accurate

98% readings are clinically significant i.e. are accurate

98% readings are clinically significant i.e. are accurate

Skin-intrusive

yes &#8211; sensor inserted inside the skin

yes &#8211; sensor inserted inside the skin

yes &#8211; sensor inserted inside the skin

yes &#8211; sensor inserted inside the skin

Start-up

Initialization Time

2 hours

2 hours

2 hours

2 hours

Calibration

Calibrate at 10, 12, 24 and 72 hours

First calibration is 2 hours after insertion. Second calibration within next 6 hours after first, then every 12 hours.

First calibration is 2 hours after insertion. Second calibration within next 6 hours after first, then every 12 hours.

Calibrate every 12 hours, first calibration must have 2 done within 30 minutes of each other.

Displays glucose numbers

Every 1 minute

Every 5 minutes

Every 5 minutes

Every 5 minutes

Compute Software

Freestyle CoPilot

Carelink&#8482; Personal Software

Carelink&#8482; Personal Software

DexCom Data Manager&#174; 3 Software

Warranty

2 year warranty for receiver, 1 year warranty for transmitter

6 months on transmitter, 4 years on insulin pump

9 months on transmitter, 1 year on monitor

1 year warranty for receiver and transmitter

Regulatory Approvals

FDA and CE

FDA and CE

FDA

FDA and CE

* The (Clarke) Error Grid is a method for quantifying the clinical accuracy of the blood glucose reading by taking the patients&#8217; blood glucose reading measured using a standard finger prick test and comparing it with the reading provided by a glucose meter or other device; The closer the reading of the device with the finger-prick blood glucose value, the higher the accuracy of the device. The % accuracy quoted here is the % of the readings in the Clark Error Grid that are in zones A &#38; B (i.e., in the clinically significant zone). 

&#160;

&#160;

Regulatory Requirements 

&#160;

Our device has been electrically safety tested, and all biocompatibility conformance also demonstrated, against the relevant European Medical Device Directives. Batches of the device and patches were manufactured for human clinical studies that took place between November 2014 and December 2015. Conformance notification was received from the Drug Controller General in India (DCGI) and ethics approval was received in multiple clinical centres in India, for testing the device in both Type I and Type II diabetic patients. Thus far over 100 patient days worth of data has been generated, involving at least 30 patients returning on 3 or 4 visits, each visit study duration lasting between 12 and 14 hours, with more than 1500 matched data points (i.e., &#62;1500 finger prick tests conducted using the HemoCue blood glucose meter, to match &#62;1500 CGM device readings). The results thus far indicate that the CGM accuracy in the Clark error Grid Zones A and B exceeds 90%, and no adverse events or skin irritation was recorded during the study. A CE mark was approved for this clinical device. The device has since been upgraded to include wireless communication and also to reduce the device size and further clinical studies are ongoing to confirm the accuracy and absence of skin irritation after which a further CE submission will be made to include new claims.

Prior to launching commercial sales of our product we must complete key material points:

&#183; Completion of the technical dossier, documenting the entire design process including the industrial design, electronic design and software design for the final commercial product, incorporating the final aesthetics and materials for product launch. 

&#183; Completion of human clinical studies in Type I and Type II diabetic patients against a defined clinical protocol, the outcome of which must support the claims for the device; additional ethics committee approvals and regulatory body approvals will be required if the device is to be tested in clinics other than those where ethics approval has already been obtained, or if clinical studies are planned in other countries, respectively. 

&#183; CE approval in Europe and subsequent regulatory approvals in other territories with new claims; and 

&#183; Prepare the patch (the patch is the sensor housing containing the sensor and has skin adhesive to stick the sensor/patch to the skin) and preparation of the device (the watch portion containing the electronics and software) for manufacturing for commercial sales, i.e., in large volumes. The patches (containing the sensors) and the device have been manufactured in small batches sufficient for clinical studies and laboratory testing. The scale up of the processes will be undertaken to mass-produce the sensors and patches and the devices in a scale that allows large volume batches to be produced cost effectively. This is necessary to ensure that the manufacturing costs of our products are minimized in order to effectively meet market demands. 

Intellectual Property

Nemaura has retained Serjeants LLP in Leicester, UK as patent counsel with respect to all matters relating to our technologies. The Company believes that clear and extensive patent coverage for its technologies is central to long-term success and will invest accordingly. This applies to both domestic and international patent coverage.

A Patent and Know How License was entered into between The University of Bath (&#8220;Bath&#8221;) and Nemaura Pharma Limited, a related company (&#8220;Pharma&#8221;) on June 21, 2012 (the &#8220;License Agreement&#8221;). Under the terms of the License Agreement, Bath has granted to Pharma an exclusive license throughout the world to conduct research and make, use, sell, import and otherwise deal in products consisting of the self-calibrating iontophoresis-based technology for the transdermal measurement of certain physiological analytes, such as glucose, lactate and urea, in humans as described in patents owned by Bath and know-how provided by Bath. Pharma shall develop and commercialize the licensed products and meet certain manufacturing and commercialization milestones. If Pharma fails to meet the milestones, Bath has the right, but not the obligation, to give written notice to Pharma of the failure and provide Pharma with an additional four months to remedy such failure, and if it&#8217;s not remedied within that time, Bath has the right to make the license non-exclusive in respect of those analytes for which the milestones have not been achieved. If Bath fails to give such notice following six (6) months of the end of the cure period it shall be deemed to have waived its right to make the Licence non-exclusive. To date we have met two of the milestones with respect to the successful demonstration of a prototype device and regulatory approval (CE certification) of the first analyte in the field of use that were scheduled for completion on December 31, 2012 and May 31, 2014, respectively. As of the date hereof we have not received any written notice from Bath of the failure to meet the milestones or demand to cure such failure. As consideration for the license, Pharma paid Bath an insignificant upfront fee, and shall make milestone payments and pay a royalty on gross receipts from income on the sales of the products. The agreement shall terminate upon expiration of all the patents, unless earlier terminated by Bath, or by Pharma. The last patent terminates on June 21, 2021. We have the right to terminate this agreement upon three months&#8217; written notice and Bath may terminate immediately upon written notice due to the occurrence of certain events, including, without limitation, our failure to make payments under the agreement, a material breach under the agreement, a petition, notice, resolution or order made in connection with winding up our business or for the appointment of an administrator, and other triggering events.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

In connection with the License Agreement, the parties also entered into a consulting agreement on June 21, 2012, whereby Bath will provide Pharma with consultants to provide services to facilitate the technology transfer and the commercial exploitation of the patents, know how or licensed products to measure glucose, lactate and urea in a clinical or home environment. Pharma shall pay Bath a fixed hourly rate for the services provided by the consultant. On July 9, 2014, the license agreement with Bath was assigned by Pharma to Dermal Diagnostics and Dermal Diagnostics assumed all rights and obligations thereunder. At the time of the assignment of the license from Pharma to us, Bath had verbally agreed with us to extend the deadlines for achieving those milestones, but the new dates have not yet been determined and a formal written agreement has not yet been executed. To date the technology underlying the Bath license agreement has not been, as is not required to be, incorporated into the Company&#8217;s technology platform, which platform is sufficient for us to commercialize the sugarBEAT device. Future milestone payments and royalties to Bath are payable only if the Company determines to utilize the Bath technology.

On May 8, 2014, NDM Technologies Limited, a related company, assigned the UK patent application 1208950.4 and International (PCT) patent application PCT/GB2013/051322 entitled &#8220;Cumulative Measurement of an Analyte&#8221; to DDL for a nominal consideration. In addition, on May 8, 2014, Pharma, assigned the family of patents relating to the patents and patent applications entitled &#8220;Patches for Reverse Iontophoresis&#8221; to DDL for a nominal consideration.

These patent and license assignments cover all of our lead technologies and include additional indications outside of the field of diagnostic medical devices for diabetes. We intend to take the lead in the preservation and/or prosecution of these patents and patent applications going forward as required.

EU 977280.6,

CA 276331

US 13/002,012

HK 111094217.7

CH 200980130090-3

JP 2011-51599

IN 218-KOLNP/2011

AU 200965416

BR PI0915238-4

Patches for Reverse Iontophoresis * . This family of patents sets out methods and apparatus for extracting glucose from the skin of the human in a non-invasive manner, without drawing blood and without the use of needles. The glucose is drawn out of the skin by applying a mild current to the skin which causes the glucose to exit via the pores in the skin and accumulate on to a patch that is adhered to the skin. The glucose levels on the patch are then measured using sensors. 

Date first filed: June 30, 2008, Expires June 29, 2028

Patents Granted in EU, China and Hong Kong.

UK 1208950.4

PCT/GB2013/051322

Cumulative Measurement of an Analyte. This patent provides a formula for calculating the amount of glucose extracted over a defined period of time by deducting the difference between two readings to allow rapid sensing without needing to deplete the analyte being measured. The patent has reached PCT stage and International filings were made in September 2014, covering several territories including Japan, Europe, Canada, USA and China.

Date first filed: May 21, 2012, Expires May 20, 2032

Patents not yet granted in any territory.

WO 03/000340

US 7,555,337

CA 2,450,965

US 7,693,573

Method for non-invasively determining the relative level of two substances present in a biological system. This patent uses the ratio of sodium that is present in the blood at near constant levels against other analytes such as glucose that are present in the blood at fluctuating concentrations, to calibrate the measured glucose levels without needing to take routine finger prick blood glucose measurements. 

Date first filed: June 22, 2001, Expires June 21, 2021

All patents granted.

* In reverse Iontophoresis two electrodes, small thin metal discs are positioned on the skin with a small gap of a few centimeters between the two electrodes. A small battery like that used in some watches is then attached to the electrodes, and when connected a small charge/current flows just below the skin that is in the region between the electrodes. As a result of this molecules such as glucose that are present just below the skin get pulled out of the skin with the flow of the charge/current to one of the electrodes. A sensor present at that electrode measures the amount of glucose that has been pulled out of the skin with the flow of the charge/current. This is quantified and correlated with the blood glucose using a mathematical formula.

Our Patent Applications Pending:

&#160; Australian Patent Application 200965416

Brazilian Patent Application P10915328-4

Canadian Patent Application 2766331

Chinese Patent Application 200980130090.3

Indian Patent Application 218-KOLNP/2011

Japanese Patent Application 2011-51599

United Kingdom Patent Application 1208950.4

United Kingdom Patent Application GB1508754.7

United Kingdom Patent Application GB1504015.7

&#160;

Clinical Trials

Our clinical testing is conducted by contract clinical research organizations in various centres around the world to cover a wide demographic &#8211; including the Middle East, Asia, and Europe &#8211; and ismanaged by our in-house medical devices director. Trials are currently ongoing at five clinical centres in India, on a mixture of Type I and Type II diabetic patients. The patients are wearing the sugarBEAT device for periods of 12 to 14 hours, and blood finger prick measurements of glucose are being taken up to 25 times per 14 hour period, and correlated with the sugarBEAT device readings.

We have had a pre-submission meeting with the FDA whereby the regulatory approval route has been defined by the FDA as being PMA. We have a further meeting scheduled in late June 2016 to discuss our Clinical Plan with the FDA, which has been submitted to them, to ensure discuss the proposed clinical strategy. This includes device and patch use in both a clinical setting as well as a home setting.

Research and development

We spent approximately $1,028,224 and $824,503 in 2016 and 2015, respectively on research and development. We anticipate that for the year ending March 2017, research and development expenditures will increase to further develop the device for commercial launch in the UK and Europe.

&#160;

Development and clinical test costs in support of our current product, as well as costs to file patents and revise and update previous filings for our technologies, will continue to be substantial as we assess the next steps to advance the product. 

&#160;

&#160;

Current Development and Commercial Status

The original version of our CGM device consisted of a device designed for clinical use, which was directly connected to a patch containing a sensor. This device did not have any wireless methods of data transport and all data transport was using a USB cable. The clinical device has been further developed and is available in two variants for all future applications:

1. The first of these variants consists of a patch containing a sensor that is applied to the skin. Glucose is extracted from the skin into the patch and the raw data is wirelessly sent to a reader. This reader may be a discrete hand held device specifically produced for the sugarBEAT or it may be a smart phone or smart watch. The reader processes the raw data using algorithms and presents these as glucose readings.

2. The second variant consists of a watch-like device with a screen, and the device directly connects to the patch containing a sensor (using a wire) and provides direct glucose readings on the screen.

We have undertaken a CE approval, which is the process to achieve a mandatory conformity marking for the sugarBEAT device to allow it to be legally sold in the European Union. It is a manufacturers declaration that the product meets the requirements of the applicable European laws. In 2015 we applied to obtain the CE approval for our clinical CGM sugarBEAT system. The application was successful and the CE certification was approved and granted in February 2016.

Since our first CE mark application for sugarBEAT, we have created a new version of the CGM, variants 1 and 2 described above. The two key differences being firstly the new devices are smaller than the first device produced, and secondly the new devices have wireless communication means in the form of Bluetooth. It is our intent to submit a new CE mark application by November 30, 2016 for both variants of the new device. Although at this time we may not seek to commercially market and sell the initial sugarBeat device, we may continue to use it in clinics, or sell it as an introductory product in the event there are delays in securing CE approval of the variants for the new version of the CGM.

Our Business Strategy

We intend to lead in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative and targeted diagnostic medical devices that improve disease monitoring, management and overall patient care. We plan to take the following steps to implement our broad business strategy. Our key commercial strategies are:

&#183;

Develop our own specialty sales and marketing teams to market the sugarBEAT device in the European Union. We intend to develop specialty sales teams with our Joint Venture partner for the EU territory, for the distribution of our product in the European Economic Area, excluding the UK, Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and Republic of Ireland. We have a marketing license agreement for the UK, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and the Republic of Ireland with Dallas Burston Pharma (Jersey) Ltd. This agreement is in addition to the 50/50 joint venture agreement with the same party for product launch in all territories in the EU outside of the UK, Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and the Republic of Ireland.

&#183;

Develop a Clinical and Commercialization Strategy for Product launch in the USA. In October 2015 we held a pre-submission meeting with the FDA and expect to hold a second meeting by mid to late June 2016 with the objective of ensuring that the FDA concurs with our proposed clinical strategy for a Premarket Approval Application, or PMA, submission. We then intend to conduct studies in the USA and submit our PMA within 18 months of the next FDA pre-submission meeting. In parallel we intend to investigate and develop the optimal product launch and commercialization strategy for the USA.

&#183;

Expand the indications for which the sugarBEAT device may be used. We believe that the sugarBEAT device may offer other significant benefits other than those found in the non-acute setting for the monitoring of other diseases. This includes monitoring of lactic acid for performance athletics as well as critical care, and the monitoring of drugs for clinical study programs. Initial proof of concept will be completed in laboratory settings followed by a clinical program.

&#183;

Expand our product pipeline through our proprietary platform technologies, acquisitions and strategic licensing arrangements. We intend to leverage our proprietary platform technologies to grow our portfolio of product candidates for the diagnosis of diabetes and other diseases. In addition we intend to license our product and acquire products and technologies that are consistent with our research and development and business focus and strategies.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

Manufacturing

Manufacturers for our sensors are Parlex (a division of Johnson Electrics), Isle of White, UK ; Polarseal Limited, Surrey, England for our patches; and CIL Limited located in Andover, UK manufactures our electronics.

We expect to enter into the following types of agreements during the course of the year ending March 31, 2017:

&#160;

- Manufacturing agreements for the sensor manufacture 

- Manufacturing agreements for the patch manufacture 

- Manufacturing agreements for the CGM watch device manufacture 

Sales and Marketing

An Exclusive Marketing Rights agreement for the UK, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and the Republic of Ireland was signed on March 31, 2014 with Dallas Burston Pharma, a Jersey (Channel Island) based company who has pharmaceutical product marketing operations in the UK and has demonstrated a very successful model for the marketing of prescription medical products directly to general practitioners. We received a non-refundable upfront payment of $1.67 million in return for providing the company with the exclusive right to sell the sugarBEAT device in the UK, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and the Republic of Ireland, both direct to consumer and through prescriptions by general practitioners. Subsequently, on April 4, 2014, a Letter of Intent was entered into outlining the basic terms of the cost at which the patches and watch will be supplied and minimum order quantities in the first two (2) years. The key terms of the Exclusive Marketing Rights Agreement were concluded in a Commercial Agreement signed in August 2015.

In addition, we entered into a joint venture agreement with the UK licensee Dallas Burston Pharma (Jersey) Limited, in November 2015, whereby we will share the costs and net profits of the sales of the sugarBEAT system in all territories in Europe, with the exception of the territories that are the subject of the separate agreement as described above. The full commercial agreement is expected to be signed towards the end of 2016.

&#160;

Regulatory &#160; matters 

Government authorities in the United Kingdom and Wales and the European Union as well as other foreign countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, promotion, advertising, distribution, sampling, marketing and import and export of medical devices, including patches and other pharmaceutical products. Our Patches for Reverse Iontophoresis in the United Kingdom and Wales will be subject to strict regulation and require regulatory approval prior to commercial distribution. The process of obtaining governmental approvals and complying with ongoing regulatory requirements requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. In addition, statutes, rules, regulations and policies may change and new legislation or regulations may be issued that could delay such approvals. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process, or after approval, we may become subject to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include the authority&#8217;s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawals of approvals, clinical holds, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. Any agency enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. At this time we are not seeking FDA approval and we are not seeking to conduct clinical studies or to market the sugarBEAT device in the United States.

The European Commission on Public Health (the &#8220;ECPH&#8221;) provides the regulation for the development and commercialization of new medical diagnostic devices. Any medical device placed on the European market must comply with the relevant legislation, notably with Directive 93/42/EEC, with the active implantable devices Directive 90/385/EEC or with the in vitro devices Directive 98/79/EC. We must first determine whether the device we intend to manufacture or import falls under any of these directives. All medical devices must fulfil the essential requirements set out in the above mentioned directives. Where available, relevant standards may be used to demonstrate compliance with the essential requirements defined in the devices Directives. 

Manufacturers also need to determine the appropriate conformity assessment route. For devices falling under Directive 93/42/EEC, other than custom-made devices and devices intended for clinical investigation, the conformity assessment route depends on the class of the device, to be determined in accordance with certain rules set forth in the directives. Once the applicable class or list has been determined, manufacturers need to follow the appropriate conformity assessment procedure. Subject to the type of the device, this may require manufacturers to have their quality systems and technical documentation reviewed by a Notified Body before they can place their products on the market. A Notified Body is a third party body that can carry out a conformity assessment recognized by the European Union. The Notified Body will need to assure itself that relevant requirements have been met before issuing relevant certification. Manufacturers can then place the CE marking on their products to demonstrate compliance with the requirements.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

The CE approval is the process of achieving a mandatory conformity marking for the sugarBEAT device to allow it to be legally sold in the European Union. It is a manufacturers&#8217; declaration that the product meets the requirements of the applicable European laws. The process for the sugarBEAT device CE submission and approval will involve the following:

1. The device is classified depending on certain categories described by the European Directive with Class I products being low risk (e.g band aid plasters), through Class III devices being the highest risk. The classes are Class I, IIa, IIb and III. Risk is based upon the potential harm to the patient should a problem arise with a product or its use. The sugarBEAT device is classed as a IIa device in Europe.

2. A &#8216;technical file&#8217; containing all of the information required to demonstrate that the product meets the essential requirements of the European directive will be prepared. This includes information relating to performance and safety of the device such as product specifications, labeling, instructions for use, risk analysis and specific test information/clinical evidence relating to the product that support the claims being made for the product.

3. Clinical evidence included in the technical file will demonstrate that the device is safe and meets defined performance requirements. This clinical evidence can be in the form of literature data where substantial published data exists that utilizes the same technique for glucose extraction and measurement (albeit in a different device format), or data from actual clinical studies performed using the sugarBEAT device. The first CE mark submission was based on clinical evidence generated by Nemaura. The next CE mark submission and additional claims will be based on further clinical data from human clinical studies performed using the new versions of the sugarBEAT device. The clinical data will be generated to show that the sugarBEAT device can trend blood glucose levels in a human subject by taking measurements up to 12 times per hour. The clinical trial data must demonstrate the sugarBEAT device blood glucose trend can be used to supplement normal finger prick measurements.

4. The technical file will be assessed by an independent inspector (the Notified Body), regulated by the competent authority, (Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, MHRA in the United Kingdom). The Notified Body (an organization in the European Union that has been accredited by a member state to determine whether a medical device complies with the European medical device directives), will then notify The European Commission on Public Health (the &#8220;ECPH&#8221;) of the approval and a certificate will be issued to the company by the notified body and we will then be able to apply the CE mark to the device, and legally offer the product for sale in the European Economic Area (EEA).

5. The review of the technical file typically takes a matter of days although the lead time is currently up to 3 months to receive a review date and up to 9 months to receive approval.

6. Generating the information required to complete the technical file takes the most time and this information is collated throughout the product development cycle. Delays arise where the company has not consulted its Notified Body prior to technical file review and elements may require further detail before the Notified Body can confirm that the device meets the essential requirements. This could delay an approval process by several weeks or in more drastic cases by several months depending on the time taken to provide any additional information requested by the Notified Body. Nemaura has been in regular communication with the Notified Body throughout the development of the sugarBEAT device, and continues to do so for the forthcoming CE submissions. 

Other Regulation in the United Kingdom and Wales and the EU

Healthcare Reimbursement

Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the United Kingdom and Wales. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical products. Government programs, private healthcare insurance and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments. This has created an increasing level of price sensitivity among customers for products. Some third-party payers must also approve coverage for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse healthcare providers who use the medical devices or therapies. Even though a new medical product may have been cleared for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the product until reimbursement approval has been obtained from governmental and private third-party payers.

&#160;

&#160;

Environmental Regulation

We are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and outside the United Kingdom and Wales. Like many other medical device companies, our operations involve the use of substances, including hazardous wastes, which are regulated under environmental laws, primarily manufacturing and sterilization processes. We do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flow. These laws and regulations are all subject to change, however, and we cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Foreign Regulation

&#160;

Whether or not we obtain regulatory approval for a product, we must obtain approval from the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for EC approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement also vary greatly from country to country.

In addition, pricing approval is required in most countries where reimbursement is sought. We face the risk that the prices which result from the approval process would be insufficient to generate an acceptable return to us or our collaborators.

Corporate Information

We are located at Advanced Technology Innovation Centre, 5 Oakwood Drive, Loughborough, Leicestershire, United Kingdom. Our phone number is +44 1509 222912. 

Employees

We currently employ 4 full-time employees. We believe our relationships with our employees are good. 

Available Information

You can access, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We maintain a website at http://www.nemauramedical.com . These documents are placed on our website as soon as is reasonably practicable after their filing with the SEC. The information contained in, or that can be accessed through, the website is not part of this annual report. These documents may also be found at the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. 

&#160;

&#160;

