 ITEM 1. BUSINESS BUSINESS 

Overview 

We are a research and development-focused biotechnology company that uses our robust, chemistry-driven approach and drug discovery capabilities to create small molecule drugs primarily for the treatment of viral infections and liver diseases. Our success to date has been built on protease inhibitors we discovered for the treatment of hepatitis C virus, or HCV, which are licensed to AbbVie and included in its HCV treatment regimens. Our new research and development programs are currently focused primarily on the following three disease areas:

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH, a liver disease estimated to affect approximately 6 million individuals in the U.S. alone; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV, the most common cause of bronchiolitis and pneumonia in children under 1 year of age in the U.S., resulting in an estimated 75,000 to 125,000 hospitalizations each year in the U.S.; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; hepatitis B virus, or HBV, the most prevalent chronic hepatitis, which is estimated to affect approximately 240 million individuals worldwide. Our development and licensing collaboration with AbbVie has produced one licensed product and a second product candidate in Phase 3 development for HCV. The licensed product, paritaprevir, a protease inhibitor designed for use against HCV, is a key compound in AbbVie&#146;s direct-acting-antiviral, or DAA, regimen VIEKIRA PAK &#174; and its other 3-DAA and 2-DAA treatment regimens currently on the market for HCV. Our second HCV protease inhibitor, glecaprevir (ABT-493), has completed several Phase 3 registrational studies in combination with pibrentasvir, AbbVie&#146;s second NS5A inhibitor. AbbVie has indicated it plans to submit a New Drug Application, or NDA, for this combination in the U.S. by the end of 2016 and similar applications in the EU and Japan early in 2017. AbbVie anticipates regulatory approvals and commercialization starting in calendar 2017. 

We had $242.2 million in cash and marketable securities at September 30, 2016. In our fiscal 2016, we received $30.0 million in milestone payments for commercialization regulatory approvals of paritaprevir, and earned $57.7 million in royalties on the portion of AbbVie&#146;s net sales of its HCV regimens allocated to paritaprevir. We expect our existing financial resources and cash flows will allow us to continue to invest for the foreseeable future in our wholly owned research and development programs. 

Our Wholly Owned Programs 

Our wholly owned research and development programs are in liver disease (non-virology), namely NASH and primary biliary cholangitis, or PBC, and in virology, namely HBV, HCV and RSV: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; NASH and PBC: We are working on multiple compounds that selectively bind to and activate the farnesoid X receptor, or FXR. We plan to develop these compounds, referred to as FXR agonists, for use in the treatment of NASH, and possibly PBC, both of which are liver diseases with very few therapeutic options. Our lead FXR agonist, EDP-305, represents a new class of FXR agonist designed to take advantage of increased binding interactions with the receptor. We believe this class is significantly different from other FXR agonists in clinical development. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In September 2016, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical study of EDP-305, which includes healthy subjects and subjects with presumptive non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, or NAFLD, who are obese and may also have pre-diabetes or type 2 diabetes. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In November 2016, we published data at the AASLD meeting that demonstrated that EDP-305 is a highly selective FXR agonist and shows more potent activity in a variety of in vitro and in vivo NASH models compared to the most advanced NASH candidate in development, obeticholic acid, or OCA. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; We also intend to explore development of EDP-305 for PBC. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In addition, we are pursuing research in other classes of FXR agonists. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; RSV: Our initial efforts in RSV are concentrated on non-fusion inhibitors which we believe will differentiate our compounds from fusion inhibitors currently in development for RSV because non-fusion inhibitors directly target the virus replication process and have demonstrated high barriers to viral resistance in vitro . To develop successful therapies for RSV, we believe that it may be necessary to utilize more than one compound/mechanism and therefore we are pursuing multiple approaches and compounds that provide in vitro and in vivo evidence of synergistic potential. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; HBV: We also have a program to discover and develop new chemical entities for the treatment of HBV. Our initial focus is on core inhibitors, a mechanism with early clinical validation. We believe that it may be necessary to utilize more than one compound/mechanism for the treatment of HBV and therefore we are pursuing multiple approaches. We continue to make significant progress in discovering, characterizing, and seeking patent protection for new core inhibitors of HBV. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; HCV: We also have a cyclophilin inhibitor, EDP-494, for which we initiated Phase 1a/b clinical development in the first quarter of calendar 2016. This study includes a proof-of-concept study in HCV patients, to demonstrate EDP-494&#146;s potential benefit as a host-targeted antiviral. Further development of EDP-494 for HCV will depend in part on the results of this study and in part on our assessment of the potential market opportunities in HCV and in other possible indications. We intend to advance a candidate compound into clinical development for either RSV or HBV, in calendar 2017. 

Licensed Product/Candidate 

Under our Collaborative Development and License Agreement with AbbVie, we have developed and licensed to AbbVie: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Paritaprevir: Paritaprevir is the protease inhibitor contained in VIEKIRA PAK &#174; and AbbVie&#146;s other HCV treatment regimens currently marketed in the U.S., EU, Japan and other countries around the world. First approved and sold in the U.S. in December 2014 for treatment of genotype 1, or GT-1, HCV, AbbVie&#146;s HCV regimens containing paritaprevir are now also approved for GT-4 HCV and are available in most major markets. AbbVie&#146;s net sales of these regimens provided us $57.7 million in royalty revenue in our fiscal 2016, compared to $34.1 million in fiscal 2015. We have also received a total of $155.0 million in milestone payments upon the initial commercialization regulatory approvals of a paritaprevir-containing regimen in major markets. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Glecaprevir (ABT-493): Our second protease inhibitor, glecaprevir, is being developed by AbbVie with its second NS5A inhibitor, pibrentasvir (ABT-530), as AbbVie&#146;s next treatment regimen for HCV. This combination, which is currently referred to as G/P, is a once daily, all oral, fixed-dose treatment for all major HCV genotypes (GT1-6), which is referred to as being pan-genotypic. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In November 2016, AbbVie announced results from several Phase 3 studies of this investigational combination demonstrating 97.5 percent of chronic HCV infected patients without cirrhosis and new to treatment across all major genotypes (GT1-6) achieved SVR 12 with just 8 weeks of G/P treatment. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; AbbVie also announced results of its EXPEDITION-4 study in chronic HCV patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), in which 98 percent of patients (n=102/104) across all major genotypes (GT-1-6) achieved SVR 12 with 12 weeks of treatment with G/P. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The FDA has granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for G/P for the treatment of GT-1 patients with chronic HCV who failed previous therapy with direct-acting antivirals (DAAs), including previous therapy with an NS5A inhibitor and/or protease inhibitor. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Upon commercialization regulatory approval of G/P in major markets, Enanta would be eligible for up to $80.0 million dollars in milestone payments, as well as annually tiered, double-digit royalties on 50% of the net sales of this 2-DAA product. Our Strategy 

Our primary objective is to become a leader in the field of viral infections and liver diseases in order to provide new treatments for patients with unmet medical needs. Our focus is on antiviral targets for viruses such as RSV, HBV and HCV, as well as non-viral liver diseases, such as NASH and PBC. All of these disease areas involve significant market opportunities and have attracted the research and development efforts of many competitors. Our strategy includes the following key elements: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Develop novel treatment options for NASH and PBC . We have a significant research effort underway to identify potent and efficacious FXR agonists for the treatment of NASH and PBC. We are seeking to develop at least two classes of novel FXR agonists with improved efficacy and safety properties versus OCA and other published FXR agonists currently in clinical development. EDP-305, our lead FXR agonist now in Phase 1 clinical development, is in a non-bile-acid class of compounds that contain steroid and non-steroid components and do not contain the carboxylic acid group that can lead to the formation of taurine and glycine conjugates and is normally present in other classes of FXR agonists and natural bile acids. We also are seeking to identify a lead candidate in a second class of FXR agonists in 2017. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Invest in research and development of product candidates in RSV and HBV . We are continuing to invest significant resources in our RSV and HBV research programs in an effort to identify and advance novel compounds that have the potential to address significant unmet medical needs in these disease areas. We plan to advance at least one of these programs into clinical development in 2017. In addition, we may seek to augment our product candidate pipeline through the acquisition or in-licensing of external assets and/or technologies. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Use our existing resources and future cash flow from our AbbVie collaboration to fund our research and development activities . Our existing financial resources and any future royalty or milestone payment revenues from our AbbVie collaboration will provide us substantial resources to fund our research and development programs for the foreseeable future. These resources will allow us to advance up to several compounds into clinical development and progress the most promising ones at least through proof-of-concept for further development as monotherapy or in combinations with other therapeutic agents when we believe such combinations will provide the most promising opportunities. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Collaborate, where and when appropriate, with pharmaceutical partners to create combination therapies and accelerate the development and commercialization of our proprietary compounds . We are prepared to join forces, where and when appropriate, with collaborators with compounds targeting other mechanisms of action in diseases such as NASH and HBV, where there is the potential for better treatments with combination therapies. Our decisions regarding our proprietary programs will be based on the results of our early phase clinical studies and the potential for combinations with one or more drugs targeting other mechanisms of action in these diseases. &#160;

Our Research and Development Pipeline 

The following table summarizes our licensed products and product development pipeline in antivirals and potential treatments for non-viral liver diseases:

&#160;

&#160;

Our FXR Program in NASH and PBC 

Background and Overview of NASH and PBC 

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, or NAFLD, is the accumulation of excessive fat in the form of triglycerides, a process known as steatosis, in liver cells that is not caused by alcohol. It is normal for the liver to contain some fat. However, if more than 5%-10% of the liver&#146;s weight is fat, then it is called a fatty liver. A subgroup of NAFLD patients have liver cell injury and inflammation (steatohepatitis) in addition to excessive fat. Progression of this condition leads to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH. NASH is widely considered to be the liver expression of metabolic diseases related to type 2 diabetes, insulin resistance, obesity, hyperlipidemia and hypertension. 

According to the World Gastroenterology Organization Global Guidelines 2014, NASH is an increasingly common chronic liver disease with worldwide distribution that is closely associated with diabetes and obesity, which have both reached epidemic proportions. It is estimated that there are at least 1.46 billion obese adults worldwide. Approximately 6 million individuals in the USA are estimated to have progressed to NASH and some 600,000 to NASH-related cirrhosis. NASH and NAFLD are now considered the number one cause of liver disease in Western countries. 

&#160;

Currently, there are no approved treatments for NASH. While patients presenting with NASH are counseled on lifestyle modifications, new effective treatments are urgently needed, particularly in the setting of advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis. Currently, two compounds in advanced Phase 3 trials are underway in NASH, conducted by Intercept Pharmaceuticals and Genfit, respectively. In addition, several Phase 2 and earlier stage studies of other classes of compounds are underway by different companies. 

Primary biliary cholangitis (formerly known as primary biliary cirrhosis), or PBC, is a chronic, or long-term, disease of the liver that slowly destroys the medium-sized bile ducts within the liver. Bile is a digestive liquid that is made in the liver. It travels through the bile ducts to the small intestine, where it helps digest fats and absorb fatty vitamins. In patients with PBC, the bile ducts are destroyed by inflammation. This causes bile to remain in the liver, where gradual injury damages liver cells and causes cirrhosis, or scarring of the liver. As cirrhosis progresses and the amount of scar tissue in the liver increases, the liver loses its ability to function, leading to potential liver failure, liver transplantation or hepatocellular carcinoma. While PBC is a relatively rare disease (in the U.S., the incidence has been estimated as 4.5 cases for women and 0.7 cases per 100,000 for men), it remains as one of the major causes of liver failure and/or the need for liver transplant. 

Agonists of the farnesoid X receptor, referred to as FXR agonists, have shown promising activity in many preclinical models of liver disease. One FXR agonist, obeticholic acid, or OCA (brand name Ocaliva TM ), which was approved by the FDA in May 2016 for the treatment of PBC, has already demonstrated favorable clinical results in NASH. We believe that new FXR agonists may provide substantial therapeutic benefit in NASH and PBC and may overcome some of the potential shortcomings of OCA, including limited effects on resolution of NASH, elevation of low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, and itching, also called pruritis. 

Scientific Background 

The farnesoid X receptor, or FXR, is a nuclear hormone receptor that functions to modulate gene expression in response to various metabolic stimuli. FXRs are expressed at high levels in the liver and intestine. Bile acids have been identified as important physiological ligands for FXRs, able to bind and activate the receptor. The downstream gene modulation resulting from bile acid engagement of FXRs not only contribute to the regulation of bile acid synthesis and metabolism, but is also involved in a number of other metabolic processes, in particular lipid metabolism. More recently, it has been discovered that bile acids, via FXR, are able to promote insulin sensitivity and decrease lipid synthesis in the liver. In addition, studies have shown that bile acid-dependent FXR activation is able to provide beneficial effects on fibrosis in the liver as well. For these reasons, FXR is considered to be a viable target for NASH. Indeed, recent Phase 2b trials with OCA, a synthetic analog of natural bile acids known to activate FXR, demonstrated efficacy in NASH patients. In PBC, improved outcomes would be expected due to the reduction of bile acid synthesis by activation of FXR. OCA has demonstrated efficacy in a Phase 3 trial in PBC, which was the basis for its approval in the U.S. in May 2016 for use in PBC patients. 

EDP-305 and Our Approach to the Treatment of NASH and PBC 

Even through there has been clinical validation demonstrated by the FXR agonist, OCA, we believe that there is opportunity for the development of a treatment that shows improvements in potency and efficacy and reductions in potential safety liabilities for the treatment of NASH and PBC. Using our strong chemistry capabilities, we have undertaken the discovery and development of new FXR agonists that we believe may provide substantial improvements over the FXR agonists currently in clinical development. 

We initiated Phase 1 clinical trials of our lead FXR agonist candidate, EDP-305, in September 2016. Our double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 1 study is designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of single ascending doses (SAD) and multiple ascending doses (MAD) of EDP-305 in healthy adults, and in adults with presumptive non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, known as NAFLD. By presumptive NAFLD, we mean adults who are obese, with or without pre-diabetes or type 2 diabetes, whom we are including in order to obtain initial 

&#160;

safety data and additional data regarding the relationship between EDP-305 plasma concentration levels and certain pharmacological effects in the context of fatty liver disease. This relationship will be explored by using bio-markers that are relevant to the disease and to the activity of EDP-305, such as evaluation of lipids, glucose, insulin resistance and specific markers of FXR activity. The study will enroll approximately 90 subjects and is designed to evaluate up to 5 dose cohorts, with EDP-305 administered orally, once daily. 

Our HCV Product and Product Candidates 

Background and Overview of HCV Market 

HCV is a virus that is a common cause of viral hepatitis, an inflammation of the liver. HCV is typically contracted by contact with the blood or other body fluids of another individual infected with HCV. HCV is a leading cause of chronic liver disease, including cirrhosis, liver failure and cancer, and the leading cause of death from liver disease in the United States. HCV disease progression occurs over a period of 20 to 30 years, with the majority of HCV-infected individuals generally exhibiting no major symptoms in the early stages of the disease. Therefore, until a major symptom is diagnosed, many individuals are unaware they are infected and live undiagnosed without seeking treatment. For that reason, combined with the new availability of effective treatments for HCV, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, issued new guidelines in 2013 recommending screening for all Americans born between the years 1945 and 1965 so that HCV-infected individuals will be aware of their condition and can consider treatment options. 

An estimated 130-170 million people worldwide are chronically infected with HCV and have an increased risk of eventually developing liver cirrhosis or liver cancer. More than 350,000 people die every year from HCV-related liver diseases. The CDC estimated in 2016 that 2.7-3.9 million people in the United States are chronically infected with HCV, with an estimated 30,500 new infections in 2014, the most recent year for which the CDC has published data. We believe that the chronically infected population remains largely untreated, even with the introduction of several new regimens beginning in 2013. The reported worldwide sales of the first of the currently available therapies for HCV (sofosbuvir and simeprevir) in 2014 totaled approximately $15.0 billion. With the introduction of Gilead&#146;s Harvoni &#174; and AbbVie&#146;s VIEKIRA PAK &#174; in late 2014, the reported worldwide sales of the five leading HCV therapies in 2015 totaled approximately $23 billion. However, after the introduction of Merck&#146;s 2-DAA regimen (brand name ZEPATIER&#153;) and Gilead&#146;s pan-genotypic 2-DAA regimen (brand name Epclusa &#153; ), reported worldwide sales of the seven leading HCV therapies in the first nine months of 2016 totaled approximately $15 billion. 

HCV is a small, single-stranded RNA virus. The specific genetic makeup, or genotype, of the virus can vary and at least six genotypes have been characterized in HCV-infected patients, with over 50 sub-types identified. Genotypes are designated with numbers (genotypes 1-6) and subtypes with letters ( e.g., genotype 1a). HCV genotypes 1, 2, 3 and 4 are found worldwide, but their prevalence varies among geographic regions. Genotype 1, including its subtypes 1a and 1b, is the most common genotype globally, accounting for approximately 74% of all HCV infections. It is estimated that patients with genotype 2 or 3 represent approximately 12% of the worldwide chronically infected HCV population, with approximately 6% comprised of genotypes 4 through 6 and the remaining 8% of patients in other undesignated categories. The specific genotype and subtype of HCV in a patient appears to play a significant role in the degree of efficacy of standard of care therapy. Genotype 1a is the most common genotype in North America, and genotype 1b is the most common in Europe and Japan. 

The first DAAs approved to treat HCV were protease inhibitors, telaprevir (Incivek &#174; , Vertex Pharmaceuticals) and boceprevir (Victrelis &#174; , Merck), which showed cure rates of approximately 70% in GT-1-infected patients, when co-administered with an interferon-based regimen. These were approved in 2011, and combination therapy incorporating a protease inhibitor emerged as a new standard of care for a segment of HCV patients. In November 2013, the FDA approved Janssen Therapeutics&#146; protease inhibitor, simeprevir (Olysio &#174; ), in 

&#160;

combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin, for the treatment of genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C in adult patients with compensated liver disease. In December 2013, the FDA approved Gilead&#146;s sofosbuvir (Sovaldi &#174; ), a nucleotide analogue inhibitor of the HCV NS5B polymerase enzyme, as a once-a-day treatment given in combination with ribavirin for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C in adult patients with GT-2 or GT-3 infection. Sofosbuvir was also approved in combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin for the treatment of GT-1 (the predominant genotype in the major world markets) and genotype 4 infection. However, medical practice quickly evolved to use a combination of sofosbuvir and simeprevir for these genotypes, which the FDA then approved in November 2014 for genotype 1 patients. Meanwhile, in October 2014, the FDA approved Gilead&#146;s Harvoni &#174; , an interferon-free combination therapy containing sofosbuvir and an NS5A inhibitor, as a once-a-day treatment for genotype 1 infection. AbbVie&#146;s 3-DAA regimen (VIEKIRA PAK &#174; ) was then approved by the FDA in December 2014. In January 2016, Merck received FDA approval for its combination of a protease inhibitor and an NS5A inhibitor (brand name Zepatier TM ) for the treatment of patients with genotypes 1 or 4 HCV infection, and in June 2016, Gilead received FDA approval of Epclusa &#174; for its combination of sofosbuvir and a new NS5A, velpatasvir, the first all-oral, pan-genotypic (any of genotypes 1-6) treatment of adults with chronic HCV infection. Other all-oral treatment regimens are under development at AbbVie, Merck, Gilead and Johnson &#38; Johnson (Janssen) and may obtain regulatory approvals for the treatment of HCV, beginning in the next one to three years, for use in various combinations for specific subpopulations and, in some cases, as pan-genotypic treatments. 

The previously approved treatments for HCV have provided significant benefit to HCV patients, as will others still in development. To date these treatments have cure rates approaching 100% in several subpopulations. Medical practice defines a &#147;cure&#148; as the point at which there is no quantifiable virus in a patient&#146;s blood for a sustained period of time after cessation of therapy, which is often referred to as a sustained virologic response, or SVR. 

Scientific Background 

Most of the currently approved HCV therapies and others under development targeting HCV focus directly on the viral life cycle and proteins that are critical to HCV replication. Replication of the HCV genome occurs on intracellular membranes and requires the participation of multiple viral proteins, some of which have enzymatic activities. Agents, often referred to as inhibitors, that target viral proteins directly are generally referred to as direct acting antivirals, or DAAs. Current DAA therapies typically include some combination of one or more inhibitors of the NS3 protease, the NS5A protein, and the NS5B polymerase. In addition to targets in HCV itself, there are human host proteins that are critical to viral replication. Inhibitors that interfere with host targets resulting in antiviral activity are referred to as host-targeted antivirals, or HTAs. One of the most promising HTA approaches to HCV treatment focuses on the human host protein known as cyclophilin A, or cyclophilin. 

&#160;

Key Proteins in the HCV Replication Complex 

&#160;

&#160;

NS3 Protease . As HCV replicates, it generates long strands of protein that must be processed into many individual active functional proteins that are referred to as non-structural proteins with the designated abbreviation NS, including NS3 and NS5A. The NS3 protease is responsible for most of this protein processing of the newly translated HCV protein, and plays an essential role in the viral life cycle. Inhibition of the protease prevents these new critical proteins from forming and therefore prevents replication and survival of the virus. 

NS5A . The NS5A protein has key roles in both the RNA replication of HCV and modulation of the physiology of its host cell in the body. Research has shown that targeting NS5A gives rise to profound antiviral activity, and as a result, this protein has emerged as an additional important DAA target for anti-HCV drugs. 

NS5B Polymerase . HCV is a single-stranded RNA virus, and NS5B is an HCV RNA polymerase responsible for synthesis of new HCV RNA, allowing the HCV genome to be copied and the virus to survive and replicate. Two separate classes of DAA inhibitors of NS5B polymerase are used as treatments for HCV. Nucleoside/nucleotide inhibitors of NS5B directly inhibit the active site of that enzyme and prevent further elongation of the RNA, and thus are equally active against all HCV genotypes. A second class, known as non-nucleoside inhibitors, affects replication of the RNA by altering the shape of the enzyme at remote sites on the enzyme surface, with the result being that any given non-nucleoside inhibitor is usually only active against certain HCV genotypes. 

Cyclophilin . Viral function of HCV requires an interaction of the viral protein NS5A with the human host protein known as cyclophilin. Inhibitors that interfere with this NS5A-cyclophilin interaction would essentially provide a treatment that protects the human host cells from infection by the virus. Clinical proof-of-concept of a cyclophilin inhibitor was established with alisporivir, a non-immunosuppressive cyclosporine A derivative that has demonstrated effectiveness against many HCV genotypes and as a high barrier to HCV resistance, with no cross-resistance with several DAAs. 

Our Evolving Approach to the Development of Treatments for HCV 

We have successfully identified clinical development candidates for inhibitors of three of the fundamental, validated targets within the HCV field, including inhibitors of the NS3 protease and the NS5A protein, as well inhibitors of the human host protein cyclophilin. We have already combined our first protease inhibitor with AbbVie&#146;s marketed HCV therapies and our second protease inhibitor with AbbVie&#146;s next combination therapy for HCV, currently in Phase 3 clinical development. In addition, we initiated clinical studies of EDP-494, our lead cyclophilin inhibitor, into clinical trials in the first quarter of calendar 2016, including a proof-of-concept study in HCV patients, to demonstrate its potential benefit as a host-targeted antiviral, or HTA. 

&#160;

Paritaprevir, the Protease Inhibitor in AbbVie&#146;s marketed therapies for HCV Infection 

Our protease inhibitor, paritaprevir, was discovered through our collaboration with AbbVie. Co-administration of paritaprevir with ritonavir, which we refer to together as paritaprevir/r, combines paritaprevir with a commonly used boosting agent that increases the blood concentrations of many protease inhibitors and has enabled once-daily dosing of paritaprevir. AbbVie developed paritaprevir/r in a 3-DAA combination with its non-nucleoside polymerase and NS5A inhibitors, with or without ribavirin, for treatment of genotype 1 HCV patients, which was approved in the U.S. in December 2014 and in the EU in January 2015. This 3-DAA combination is sold as VIEKIRA PAK in the U.S. and as VIEKIRAX &#174; +EXVIERA &#174; in the EU for non-cirrhotic patients and those with early stage, or compensated, cirrhosis. In genotype 1a and 1b HCV patients AbbVie&#146;s clinical trials showed SVR rates of 90-100% depending on the patient and group. AbbVie also markets a 2-DAA combination with the same NS5A inhibitor for genotype 4 HCV patients in the U.S. and EU under the name VIEKIRAX, which is also approved for genotype 1 patients in Japan. 

Glecaprevir (ABT-493), the Protease Inhibitor in AbbVie&#146;s Next Combination for HCV Infection 

AbbVie is also developing our second protease inhibitor, glecaprevir (ABT-493), discovered within the Enanta-AbbVie collaboration. AbbVie has co-formulated glecaprevir with AbbVie&#146;s second NS5A inhibitor, pibrentasvir (ABT-530), and is developing them as its next combination, currently referred to as G/P, for HCV treatment. G/P would be a pan-genotypic, once daily, all oral, fixed-dose combination treatment for HCV. 

In November 2016, AbbVie announced results of several of its registrational Phase 3 clinical trials for the investigational G/P combination, demonstrating high cure rates across all the major HCV genotypes in treatment na&#239;ve patients with only 8 weeks of treatment, and in patients co-infected with chronic kidney disease with 12 weeks of treatment. 

&#160;

Study Name 

&#160; Patient Population 

&#160; Treatment 

Duration 

&#160; Treatment 

Regimen 

&#160; SVR 12 Rate 

ENDURANCE-1

&#160; GT1 without cirrhosis, new to treatment or

not cured with previous IFN-based

treatments (pegIFN +/- RBV or SOF/RBV

+/- pegIFN), and patients co-infected with HIV-1

&#160; 8 week &#160; G/P &#160; 99%

(n=348/351)

ENDURANCE-3

&#160; GT3 without cirrhosis,

new to treatment

&#160; 8 week &#160; G/P &#160; 95%

(n=149/157)

SURVEYOR-2

(Part 4)

&#160; GT2, 4, 5, or 6 without cirrhosis, new to treatment or not cured with previous IFN-based treatments (pegIFN, SOF/RBV or pegIFN/SOF) &#160; 8 week &#160; G/P &#160; 97%

(n=196/203)

EXPEDITION-IV

&#160; GT1-6 chronic HCV infection and chronic kidney disease (CKD), including those on dialysis, not cured with previous treatment with sofosbuvir (SOF) plus ribavirin (RBV)

or with interferon (IFN) plus RBV, with or without SOF

&#160; 12 weeks &#160; G/P &#160; 98%

(n=102/104)

EDP-494, Cyclophilin (Cyp) Inhibitor for HCV Infection 

In anticipation of resistance arising to DAA HCV therapy that targets viral proteins, we have been developing an alternative HTA approach that targets the human host protein, cyclophilin, which is essential for replication of HCV. We have demonstrated in replicon assays that our lead cyclophilin-targeting inhibitor, EDP-494, is a 

&#160;

potent inhibitor of HCV replication in wild-type virus and in virus with resistance associated variants (RAVs) and is more potent than the clinical stage cyclophilin inhibitor alisporivir. We are currently testing EDP-494 in a proof-of-concept study in HCV patients to demonstrate its potential benefit as a host-targeted antiviral. Further development of EDP-494 for HCV will depend in part on the results of this study and in part on our assessment of the potential market opportunities in HCV and in other possible indications. 

EDP-239, an NS5A Inhibitor for HCV Infection 

We have also discovered EDP-239, an NS5A inhibitor. This compound has demonstrated potent activity against major genotypes in the replicon assay, which is a common in vitro test for determining potency of an active compound in reducing HCV replication. EDP-239 successfully completed Phase 1 studies in 2015, including a proof-of-concept study. Its further development will depend upon opportunities for us to out-license EDP-239 for use as a potential additional component in a combination therapy. 

Our RSV Program 

Background Overview of RSV 

Respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV, is a virus that infects the lungs and represents a serious unmet medical need in infants and children, as well as immune-compromised individuals and the elderly. RSV is the most common cause of bronchiolitis (inflammation of the small airways in the lung) and pneumonia in children under 1 year of age in the United States. Each year, 75,000 to 125,000 children in this age group are hospitalized due to RSV infection. In one large US-based study, RSV infection in children was associated with 20% of hospitalizations, 18% of emergency department visits, and 15% of pediatric office visits for acute respiratory infections in the November-April timeframe. Though a prophylactic monoclonal antibody-based treatment is available for infants considered at high risk for RSV infection, this study found that most young children affected by RSV infection were previously healthy, and thus would not normally be considered for prophylaxis. There is currently no effective treatment available for treating RSV infection. 

Our approach to the treatment of RSV 

RSV is a single-stranded, negative-sense RNA virus. The viral genome encodes for 11 proteins, several of which may be suitable targets for the discovery of new treatments for RSV. While a number of companies are developing potential approaches geared towards the F protein (or fusion protein, responsible for mediating viral entry into host cells), we are focused on non-fusion mechanisms that target the replication process of the virus. It is possible that non-fusion inhibitors may also be effective at later stages of infection. Through our internal chemistry efforts, we have identified multiple series of non-fusion inhibitors that possess potent antiviral activity, including versus clinical isolates, and present a high barrier of resistance. We will continue to profile our most advanced leads in preclinical studies, with the goal of selecting a candidate compound in 2017. 

Our HBV Program 

Background and Overview of HBV 

Hepatitis B virus, or HBV, can cause potentially life-threatening liver infection. The virus is transmitted through contact with the blood or other bodily fluids of an infected person. It is estimated that 240 million people worldwide are chronically infected, and 15-25% of patients with chronic HBV infection develop chronic liver disease, including cirrhosis, liver cancer, or liver decompensation. It is also estimated that more than 780,000 people die every year due to complications of HBV. Estimates for the total number of persons chronically infected with HBV in the U.S. vary but generally range between 0.5 million and 2.0 million. Combining U.S., Japan, and major EU populations, estimates of HBV prevalence have been as high as 4.9 million. 

Current approaches to treatment include interferon therapy and/or inhibitors of HBV reverse transcriptase, the enzyme responsible for viral DNA synthesis, which is necessary for HBV replication. Treatment with interferon 

&#160;

offers modest cure rates, and is accompanied by serious side effects. Reverse transcriptase inhibitors can be very effective at suppressing the virus but often require lifelong therapy and rarely result in full eradication of the virus from the liver. New treatments that can provide functional cures to chronically-infected patients are urgently needed. 

Our approach to the treatment of HBV 

HBV is a partially double-stranded DNA virus, with a complex life cycle. There are multiple mechanisms associated with HBV replication that could potentially be targeted with new drugs, including mechanisms of entry, capsid assembly, cccDNA formation, transcription and secretion, as well as reverse transcriptase. In addition, host factor and immunological mechanisms could play a role as well. We are initially focusing on new core inhibitors that we expect to have an impact on capsid assembly and possibly interfere with other viral processes. This approach has some early clinical validation, with the core inhibitor NVR 3-778 from Novira demonstrating clinical reduction of viral DNA in chronic HBV patients. We are making significant progress in discovering, characterizing, and securing patent protection for new core inhibitors. 

In calendar 2017, our goal is to identify a candidate compound from either our HBV program or our RSV program, or both.

Drug Discovery and Chemical Development 

We have internally developed all of the initial compounds in our research and development programs. Our scientists have expertise in the areas of medicinal chemistry, molecular virology and pharmacology, with highly developed sets of skills in compound generation, target selection, screening and pharmacology, preclinical development and lead optimization. We are utilizing these skills and capabilities in our discovery and development of antiviral and other product candidates. 

We focus on virology and liver disease indications representing large and growing market opportunities with significant unmet medical needs. Our selection of a particular therapeutic target within those disease indications takes into consideration the experience and expertise of our scientific team. The final selection is based on the possibility of being able to generate robust medicinal chemistry structure-activity relationships to assist lead optimization and secure relevant intellectual property rights. Once we have identified lead compounds, they are tested using in vitro and in vivo pharmacology studies and in vivo research models of antiviral or antibacterial efficacy. 

Bicyclolide Antibiotics 

Through our internal chemistry efforts, we created a new family of antibiotics called Bicyclolides to overcome resistance associated with existing macrolide antibiotics. The main focus of our antibiotic work had been on new mechanisms targeting resistant, Gram-positive pathogens, including bacteria resistant to currently marketed macrolides. In September 2011, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, or NIAID, contracted for us to undertake the initial clinical development of our lead product candidate, which NIAID wanted to investigate as a medical biodefense countermeasure against several pathogens. NIAID funded our preclinical and early clinical development of this candidate. Based primarily on the competitive landscape for antibiotics for Gram-positive bacterial infections, in December 2014 we decided not to continue commercial development of our antibiotic program. Given that we were no longer pursuing a commercial indication for our lead antibiotic candidate, we and NIAID amended our contract so that it was completed in August 2015 upon our delivery of the study report for the Phase 1 clinical study. We are not currently conducting any research in the field of antibiotics. 

&#160;

Collaboration and License Agreements 

AbbVie 

We entered into a Collaborative Development and License Agreement with Abbott Laboratories in November 2006 to develop and commercialize HCV NS3 and NS3/4A protease inhibitors. The agreement, which was amended in January and December 2009, was assigned to AbbVie Inc. on January 1, 2013 in connection with Abbott&#146;s transfer of its research-based pharmaceuticals business to AbbVie. Under the agreement, we have granted AbbVie an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license, including a right to grant sublicenses, to specified intellectual property, including several issued U.S. patents, relating to protease inhibitors. We also granted AbbVie access to our drug discovery capabilities in the HCV NS3 and NS3/4A protease inhibitor field. AbbVie granted us a co-exclusive (together with AbbVie), royalty-free, fully paid license, without the right to grant sublicenses, to certain of AbbVie&#146;s intellectual property, AbbVie&#146;s interest in joint intellectual property and improvements discovered by AbbVie, for the purpose of allowing us to conduct certain development and commercialization activities in the United States relating to protease inhibitors. AbbVie is responsible for and funds all costs associated with the development, manufacturing and commercialization of paritaprevir, ABT-493 and any other compounds under this agreement. We are eligible to receive milestone payments and royalties with respect to these compounds. So long as a product candidate is being developed or commercialized under the agreement, we undertake not to conduct any activity, or grant licenses to a third party, relating to protease inhibitors. 

A joint steering committee was established under the agreement with review and oversight responsibilities for all research, development and commercialization activities. The joint steering committee is comprised of three of our senior personnel and three senior personnel from AbbVie; however, AbbVie has final authority to make all decisions regarding development and commercialization activities. 

The research program and the evaluation period, which was performed by both parties, ended in June 2011. The first commercialized compound is paritaprevir, and glecaprevir (ABT-493) is the second protease inhibitor compound under development. The first clinical milestone for paritaprevir was achieved in 2010. Through September 30, 2016, we have received a total of approximately $394.0 million from AbbVie as part of our collaboration, consisting of license payments, proceeds from a sale of preferred stock, research funding payments, milestone payments and royalties. We are eligible to receive additional milestone payments totaling up to $80.0 million upon achievement of commercialization regulatory approval in the U.S. and other selected world markets for any additional protease inhibitor commercialized by AbbVie. 

We are eligible to receive annually tiered royalties on each product developed under the agreement, ranging from the low double digits up to twenty percent, or up to the high teens on a blended basis, based on the annual net sales of the product. However, if a product is determined to be a combination product, as was the case for paritaprevir and would be the case for glecaprevir, the net sales of the combination product will be adjusted on a country-by-country and product-by-product basis to reflect a good faith determination of the relative value of each pharmaceutically active ingredient, based on the estimated fair market value. This means that AbbVie&#146;s worldwide annual net sales of a combination product will first be allocated to determine the royalty-bearing portion, and then multiplied by the annually tiered royalty rates to determine Enanta&#146;s actual royalty for a given period. In October 2014, we entered into an amendment to our agreement with AbbVie to finalize the net sales allocations for regimens containing paritaprevir, as well as for any regimen containing glecaprevir. Under the terms of this agreement, 30% of net sales of a 3-DAA regimen containing paritaprevir and 45% of net sales of a 2-DAA regimen containing paritaprevir are allocated to paritaprevir. In the case of the G/P combination containing glecaprevir, 50% of AbbVie&#146;s net sales would be allocated to this 2-DAA regimen. 

Royalties owed to us under the agreement can be reduced by AbbVie in certain circumstances, including (i) if AbbVie exercises its right to license or otherwise acquire rights to intellectual property controlled by a third party where a product could not be legally developed or commercialized in a country without the third-party intellectual property right, (ii) where a product developed under the collaboration agreement is sold in a country 

&#160;

and not covered by a valid patent claim in such country, or (iii) where sales of a generic product are equal to at least a specified percentage of AbbVie&#146;s market share of a product in a country. 

AbbVie&#146;s obligation to pay royalties on a product developed under the agreement expires on a country-by-country basis upon the later of (i) the date of expiration of the last of the licensed patents with a valid claim covering the product in the applicable country, and (ii) ten years after the first commercial sale of the product in the applicable country. 

Our intellectual property existing as of the effective date of the agreement remains our property. Any intellectual property jointly developed is jointly owned. We will have unilateral right to enforce Enanta patent rights on any covered product following the first commercial sale of such product, as will AbbVie. In the event of infringement related to any Enanta patents, we will have the first right and option to initiate legal proceedings or take other actions. In the event of infringement related to any AbbVie patents, AbbVie will have the first right and option to initiate legal proceedings or take other actions. In the event of infringement of a joint patent right, we will discuss with AbbVie whether to initiate legal proceedings or take other actions. AbbVie will have the obligation to defend at its sole expense any actions brought against either party alleging infringement of third-party rights by reason of the activities conducted under the agreement and we will have the right to obtain separate counsel at our own expense. Additionally, AbbVie, at its sole expense, will be responsible for all trademark prosecution. 

Subject to the exceptions described above, a party&#146;s rights and obligations under the agreement continue until: (i) such time as AbbVie is no longer developing a product candidate or (ii) if, as of the time AbbVie is no longer developing any product candidates, AbbVie is commercializing any other protease inhibitor product, such time as all royalty terms for all covered products and all co-development terms for all co-developed products have ended. Accordingly, the final expiration date of the agreement is currently indeterminable. 

Either party may terminate the agreement for cause in the event of a material breach, subject to prior notice and the opportunity to cure, or in the event of the other party&#146;s bankruptcy. Additionally, AbbVie may terminate the agreement for any reason upon specified prior notice. 

If we terminate the agreement for cause or AbbVie terminates without cause, any licenses and other rights granted to AbbVie will terminate and AbbVie will be deemed to have granted us (i) a non-exclusive, perpetual, fully paid, worldwide, royalty-free license, with the right to sublicense, under AbbVie&#146;s intellectual property used in any product candidate and (ii) an exclusive (even as to AbbVie), perpetual, fully paid, worldwide, royalty-free license, with the right to sublicense, under AbbVie&#146;s interest in joint intellectual property rights to develop product candidates resulting from covered compounds and to commercialize any products derived from such compounds. Upon our request, AbbVie will also transfer to us all right, title and interest in any related product trademarks, regulatory filings and clinical trials. 

If AbbVie terminates the agreement for our uncured breach, the milestone and royalty payments payable by AbbVie may be reduced, the licenses granted to AbbVie will remain in place, we will be deemed to have granted AbbVie an exclusive license under our interest in joint intellectual property, AbbVie will continue to have the right to commercialize any covered products, and all rights and licenses granted to us by AbbVie will terminate. 

NIAID Contract 

In September 2011, we were awarded a contract from NIAID to fund preclinical and early clinical development of our lead candidate in a new class of bridged bicyclic antibiotics known as Bicyclolides. Under the terms of the NIAID contract, which was completed in August 2015, NIAID has paid us research and development funding totaling approximately $20.6 million through January 31, 2016. Under the contract, all intellectual property rights held by us and any inventions, know-how or other intellectual property rights derived as a result of this contract will be our property, subject to certain rights of the United States federal government. See &#147;Risk Factors&#151;We could be unsuccessful in obtaining or maintaining adequate patent protection for one or more of our product candidates.&#148; 

&#160;

Competition 

We are engaged in segments of the pharmaceutical industry that are highly competitive and rapidly changing. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are commercializing or pursuing the development of products that target HCV, NASH, HBV, RSV and other viral and liver diseases that we may target in the future. 

Many of our competitors have substantially greater commercial infrastructures and greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have, as well as drug candidates in late-stage clinical development. Our competitors may succeed in developing competing products and obtaining regulatory approval before us or any collaborator of ours does with our product candidates, or they may gain acceptance for the same markets that we are targeting. If we are not &#147;first to market&#148; with one of our product candidates in one or more disease indications, our competitive position could be compromised because it may be more difficult for us to obtain marketing approval for that product candidate and market acceptance of that product candidate as a second competitor. In addition, any new product that competes with an approved product typically must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability or safety, or some combination of these factors, in order to overcome price competition and be commercially successful. 

We expect our licensed product and product candidates for HCV to face intense and increasing competition as new products continue to enter the HCV market. Our HCV protease inhibitors licensed to AbbVie currently face competition in various world markets and subpopulations of HCV from Gilead&#146;s Sovaldi &#174; (sofosbuvir), Harvoni &#174; (a fixed-dose combination of sofosbuvir and ledipasvir) and Epclusa &#174; (a fixed dose combination of sofosbuvir and velpatasvir), Bristol-Myers Squibb&#146;s Daclinza &#153; (daclatasvir) and daclatasvir in combination with asunaprevir, and Merck&#146;s Zepatier TM (a fixed-dose combination of grazoprevir and elbasvir). Other all-oral treatment regimens are under development at Merck, Gilead and Johnson &#38; Johnson and may obtain regulatory approvals for the treatment of HCV beginning in the next one to three years. These other potential new treatment regimens may render AbbVie&#146;s approved treatment regimens or its next combination regimen currently in clinical development, each of which contains one of our HCV protease inhibitors, noncompetitive. In addition, AbbVie&#146;s regimens may not be able to compete successfully with other products and regimens still under active development that involve multiple classes of inhibitors of HCV, including protease inhibitors, polymerase inhibitors (nucleoside and non-nucleoside), NS5A inhibitors, and other mechanism. These potential regimens are under development by companies such as, Co-Crystal Pharma, Microbio Co., Regulus, Roche, Taigen, and Trek. 

Competitive products in the form of other treatment methods or a vaccine for HCV may render our product candidates licensed to AbbVie, as well as any other product candidates we may develop ourselves, obsolete or noncompetitive. Even if successfully developed and subsequently approved by the FDA, our product candidates will face competition based on their safety and effectiveness, the timing and scope of the regulatory approvals, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, and other factors. If the product candidates developed under our collaboration agreement with AbbVie face competition from generic products, the collaboration agreement provides that the royalty rate applicable to such product candidates is reduced significantly by a specified percentage on a product-by-product, country-by-country basis. If we and our collaborator are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition, operations and stock price will suffer. 

We also expect our other product candidates to face intense and increasing competition as new products continue to enter the NASH and antiviral markets and advanced technologies become available. Though there is currently no approved treatment for NASH, we expect significant competition from other companies in the development of new treatments for NASH and related conditions. We are aware of several companies with NASH programs that are significantly more advanced than ours, including companies with compounds in Phase 3 clinical trials, namely Intercept and Genfit. In May 2016, the FDA approved Intercept&#146;s FXR agonist (brand name Ocaliva&#153;) for the treatment of primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). In addition, a number of companies are in Phase 2 clinical 

&#160;

trials for NASH or related conditions. These companies include Alberio, Arisaph, Astra-Zeneca, BMS, Cempra, Conatus, Galectin, Galmed, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline, Immuron, Medicinova, Novartis, NGM, Novo Nordisk, Octeta, Shire, and Tobira/Allergan. A significant number of other companies are conducting earlier stage clinical trials of compounds that may be appropriate for treatment of NASH and other cholestatic diseases, including Boehringer Ingelheim, Can-Fite Biopharma, Cymabay, Durect, Genkyotex, Ionis, Islet and Viking, and there are additional companies conducting preclinical studies in these disease areas.

For RSV, there are no safe and effective approved therapies. Several companies are seeking new antiviral treatments for RSV in adult and pediatric settings. Aviragen (formerly Biota), Johnson &#38; Johnson and Gilead each have compounds in Phase 2 development, as does Ablynx with a potential therapeutic antibody. Earlier stage programs have also been reported by Ark Biosciences, Medivir, Pulmocide, and ReViral. 

While there are effective antiviral medications prescribed for HBV, they generally have low true cure rates. Many companies are seeking to develop new HBV drugs that alone or in combination with other mechanisms could lead to a functional cure of HBV. Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals, Gilead, Roche, Arbutus, Maxwell, Janssen, Replicor, and Spring Bank have Phase 2 programs in progress, and a number of companies have Phase 1 or earlier stage HBV programs, including Alnylam, Arbutus, Assembly, Enyo, Johnson &#38; Johnson, Ionis, and Benitec. 

If we are not able to develop new products that can compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition, operations and stock price will suffer. 

Many of our competitors have substantially greater commercial infrastructures and financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. We will not be able to compete successfully unless we are able to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; design and develop products that are superior to other products in the market; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; attract qualified scientific, medical, sales and marketing and commercial personnel; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our processes and product candidates; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; obtain required regulatory approvals; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; collaborate with others in the development and commercialization of new products. Established competitors may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. In addition, any new product that competes with an approved product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety in order to overcome price competition and to be commercially successful. If we and our collaborators are not able to compete effectively against current and future competitors for our product candidates, our business will not grow and our financial condition will be adversely affected. 

Intellectual Property 

As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection for our product candidates in the United States and certain major foreign jurisdictions and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements to our compounds. We also rely on trade secrets, internal know-how, technological innovations and agreements with third parties to develop, maintain and protect our competitive position. Our ability to be competitive will depend on the success of this strategy. 

Each of our major programs, including HCV, NASH, HBV and RSV, typically has several issued patents and pending patent claims in the program area containing claims to compounds, methods of use and processes for synthesis. However, only a few of the issued patents and/or pending patent applications cover the lead product candidate in the program. 

&#160;

HCV NS3 Protease Inhibitor Program. The patent portfolio directed to the HCV protease inhibitor program with AbbVie include U.S. patents and foreign patents, as well as non-provisional applications. The issued U.S. composition-of-matter patent covering paritaprevir is expected to expire in 2031. If G/P is approved, the issued United States composition-of-matter patent covering glecaprevir would expire later, after taking into account any extensions that may be obtained through patent term extension or adjustment, or term reduction due to filing of terminal disclaimers. AbbVie is a joint owner of a number of these patent applications. AbbVie also has rights to some or all of these patents and patent applications pursuant to its collaboration agreement with us.

Other HCV Patents . Our patent portfolio directed to HCV NS5A inhibitors and cyclophilin inhibitors includes issued U.S. patents and foreign patents, as well as non-provisional applications. The issued U.S. patents and the applications, if granted, would expire between 2030 and 2035 before taking into account any extensions that may be obtained through patent term extension or adjustment, or term reduction due to filing of terminal disclaimers. 

Antibacterial Program . Our issued U.S. patents and foreign patents covering our portfolio of antibacterials will expire between 2020 and 2032 before taking into account any extension that may be obtained through patent term extension or adjustment, or term reduction due to filing of terminal disclaimers. 

NASH, HBV and RSV Programs. Our patent portfolio directed to FXR agonists for NASH, PBC and fibrosis, core inhibitors for HBV and non-fusion inhibitors for RSV includes pending U.S. patent applications as well as numerous foreign patent applications. 

We may obtain patents for certain compounds many years before we obtain marketing approval for products containing such compounds. Because patents have a limited life, which usually begins to run well before the first commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions in the United States and in a number of European countries, compensating in part for delays in obtaining marketing approval, but we cannot be certain we will obtain such extensions. 

It is also very important that we do not infringe patents or other proprietary rights of others. If we do infringe such patents or other proprietary rights, we could be prevented from developing or selling products or from using the processes covered by those patents, could be required to pay substantial damages, or could be required to obtain a license from the third party to allow us to use their technology, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we were not able to obtain a required license or develop alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products, and our business could be adversely affected. 

In addition, we jointly own patent applications, together with AbbVie, that claim paritaprevir or glecaprevir as a chemical entity. However, there is no guarantee that such applications will issue. We also own one issued patent that claims EDP-239 as a chemical entity. Further, the existence of issued patents does not guarantee our right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Third parties may have already or could obtain rights to patents that could be used to prevent or attempt to prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. If these other parties are successful in obtaining valid and enforceable patents, and establishing our infringement of those patents, we could be prevented from commercializing our product candidates unless we were able to obtain a license under such patents, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 

Much of our scientific capabilities depend upon the knowledge, experience and skills of key scientific and technical personnel. To protect our rights to our proprietary know-how and technology, we endeavor to require all employees, as well as our consultants and advisors, when feasible, to enter into confidentiality agreements that require disclosure and assignment to us of ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions made by these employees, consultants and advisors in the course of their service to us. 

&#160;

We may be unable to obtain, maintain and protect the intellectual property rights necessary to conduct our business, and we may be subject to claims that we infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, which could materially harm our business. For more information, see &#147;Risk Factors&#151;Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Rights.&#148; 

Government Regulation 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, marketing and export and import of products such as those we develop. Any pharmaceutical candidate that we develop must be approved by the FDA before it may be legally marketed in the United States and by the appropriate foreign regulatory agency before it may be legally marketed in foreign countries. 

United States Drug Development Process 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implementing regulations. Drugs are also subject to other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable United States requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. FDA sanctions could include refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. 

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies according to GLPs or other applicable regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application, or an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials according to the FDA&#146;s current Good Clinical Practices, or GCPs, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Submission to the FDA of a New Drug Application, or an NDA, for a new drug product; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities where the drug is to be produced to assess compliance with the FDA&#146;s current Good Manufacturing Practice standards, or cGMP, to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Potential FDA audit of the nonclinical and clinical trial sites that generated the data in support of the NDA; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA. The lengthy process of seeking required approvals, which can often take anywhere from six months from the time the NDA is filed if there is a priority review for a breakthrough therapy to twelve months for a standard review, and the continuing need for compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. There can be no certainty that approvals will be granted. 

&#160;

Before testing any compounds with potential therapeutic value in humans, the product candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the product candidate. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with GLP and other federal regulations and requirements. The sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, to the FDA as part of the IND. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA places the clinical trial on a clinical hold within that 30-day time period. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. The FDA may also impose clinical holds on a drug at any time before or during clinical trials due to safety concerns or non-compliance. Accordingly, we cannot assure that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to begin, or that, once begun, issues will not arise that result in suspension or termination of such trial. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the product candidate to healthy volunteers or patients having the disease being studied under the supervision of qualified investigators, generally physicians not employed by or under the trial sponsor&#146;s control. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria, and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA&#146;s GCP requirements. Further, each clinical trial must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, at or servicing each institution at which the clinical trial will be conducted. An IRB is charged with protecting the welfare and rights of trial participants and considers such items as whether the risks to individuals participating in the clinical trials are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the informed consent form that must be provided to each clinical trial subject or his or her legal representative and must monitor the clinical trial until it is completed. 

Human clinical trials prior to approval are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1 . The drug is initially introduced into healthy humans and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases, especially when the product may be too inherently toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted only in patients having the specific disease. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2 . The drug is evaluated in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance, optimal dosage and dosing schedule for patients having the specific disease. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 3 . Clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. These clinical trials, which usually involve more patients than earlier trials, are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit ratio of the product and provide an adequate basis for product labeling. Generally, at least two adequate and well-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials are required by the FDA for approval of an NDA. Post-approval studies, or Phase 4 clinical trials, may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These studies are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication and may be required by the FDA as part of the approval process. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and written IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA by the investigators for serious and unexpected adverse events or any finding from tests in laboratory animals that suggests a significant risk for human patients. Phase 1, 

&#160;

Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA, or the sponsor or its data safety monitoring board, may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. 

Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the product candidate and, among other things, must include methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final drug. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

U.S. Review and Approval Processes 

The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the chemistry of the drug, proposed labeling and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product. The submission of an NDA is subject to the payment of substantial user fees by the applicant; a waiver of such fees may be obtained under certain limited circumstances. 

In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, an NDA or supplement to an NDA must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of pediatric data or full or partial waivers. 

The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing and may request additional information rather than accepting an NDA for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA. Under the goals and policies agreed to by the FDA under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, the FDA has twelve months in which to complete its initial review of a standard NDA and respond to the applicant, and six months for a priority NDA. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates for standard and priority NDAs. 

After the NDA submission is accepted for filing, the FDA reviews the NDA to determine, among other things, whether the proposed product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with cGMP to assure and preserve the product&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity. In addition to its own review, the FDA may refer applications for novel drug products or drug products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. During the approval process, the FDA also will determine whether a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, is necessary to assure the safe use of the drug. If the FDA concludes that a REMS is needed, the sponsor of the NDA must submit a proposed REMS; the FDA will not approve the NDA without a REMS, if required. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is to be manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites 

&#160;

to assure compliance with GCP. If the FDA determines that the application, manufacturing process or manufacturing facilities are not acceptable it will outline the deficiencies in the submission and often will request additional testing or information. 

The NDA review and approval process is lengthy and difficult, and the FDA may refuse to approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical data or other data and information. Even if such data and information is submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data obtained from clinical trials are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA will issue a &#147;complete response&#148; letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA. The complete response letter usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the NDA identified by the FDA. The deficiencies identified may be minor, for example, requiring labeling changes, or major, for example, requiring additional clinical trials. Additionally, the complete response letter may include recommended actions that the applicant might take to place the application in a condition for approval. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application. 

If a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling. In addition, the FDA may require Phase 4 testing, which involves clinical trials designed to further assess a product&#146;s safety and effectiveness and may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety of approved products that have been commercialized. 

Expedited Development and Review Programs 

The FDA has four programs intended to expedite the development and review of new drugs addressing unmet medical needs or treating serious or life-threatening conditions: fast track, breakthrough therapy, priority review, and accelerated approval. 

The FDA &#147;fast track&#148; program is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new products to treat serious or life-threatening conditions and address unmet medical needs. Fast track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. Under the fast track program, the sponsor will have more frequent interactions with the FDA during drug development, and may also submit sections of the NDA on a rolling basis to the FDA for review before submitting the complete application. Fast track does not guarantee that a product will be reviewed more quickly or receive FDA approval. 

The FDA &#147;breakthrough therapy&#148; program is intended to expedite the development and review of drugs for serious or life-threatening conditions. Preliminary clinical evidence must show that the drug may have substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. Although the drug does not have to address an unmet medical need, designation of breakthrough therapy status carries all the &#147;fast track&#148; program features. Additionally, the breakthrough therapy program entitles the sponsor to earlier and more frequent interaction with the FDA review team regarding development of nonclinical and clinical data, and allows the FDA to offer product development and regulatory advice necessary to shorten the time for product approval. The breakthrough therapy status does not guarantee a quicker development or review of the product, and does not ensure FDA approval. 

The FDA also has a &#147;priority review&#148; program for products offering significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease. The goal of the priority review program is to shorten the review period to six months from the ten months required for standard review. Any drug with breakthrough therapy, accelerated approval designation, or fast track can be granted priority review if it meets the necessary criteria. 

The FDA &#147;accelerated approval&#148; program is intended to expedite the development and review of products with the potential to treat serious or life-threatening illnesses and provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing 

&#160;

treatments. The program allows approval of a product on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical studies establishing that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit, or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than survival or irreversible morbidity. As a condition of approval, the FDA generally requires that a sponsor of the product perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies to establish safety and efficacy for the approved indication. Failure to conduct such studies or failure of the studies to establish required safety and efficacy may result in revocation of approval. The FDA also requires, as a condition for accelerated approval, pre-approval of promotional materials, which could adversely impact the timing of the commercial launch or subsequent marketing of the product. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Any drug products for which we receive FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA. Certain requirements include, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences with the product, providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information on an annual basis or more frequently for specific events, product sampling and distribution requirements, complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements and complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements. These promotion and advertising requirements include, among others, standards for direct-to-consumer advertising, prohibitions against promoting drugs for uses or in patient populations that are not described in the drug&#146;s approved labeling (known as &#147;off-label use&#148;), rules for conducting industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. Failure to comply with FDA requirements can have negative consequences, including the immediate discontinuation of noncomplying materials, adverse publicity, enforcement letters from the FDA, mandated corrective advertising or communications with doctors, and civil or criminal penalties. Although physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for off-label uses, manufacturers may not market or promote such off-label uses. 

We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our product candidates. Manufacturers of our product candidates are required to comply with applicable FDA manufacturing requirements contained in the FDA&#146;s cGMP regulations. These regulations require, among other things, quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of comprehensive records and documentation. Drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are also required to register their establishments and list any products they make with the FDA and to comply with related requirements in certain states. These entities are further subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. Discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in serious and extensive restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA. These restrictions may include suspension of a product until the FDA is assured that quality standards can be met, continuing oversight of manufacturing by the FDA under a &#147;consent decree,&#148; which frequently includes the imposition of costs and continuing inspections over a period of many years, as well as possible withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, changes to the manufacturing process generally require prior FDA approval before being implemented. Other types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications and additional labeling claims, are also subject to further FDA review and approval. 

The FDA also may require post-marketing testing, known as Phase 4 testing, as well as risk minimization action plans and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product or place conditions on an approval that could otherwise restrict the distribution or use of the product. 

U.S. Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity 

Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 

Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of the FDA approval of the use of our product candidates, some of our United States patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price 

&#160;

Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during federal regulatory review preceding the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product&#146;s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug is eligible for the extension and the application for the extension must be submitted within 60 days of approval, prior to the expiration of the patent. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration. In the future, we may apply for restoration of patent term for one of our currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond its current expiration date, depending on the expected length of the clinical trials and other factors involved in the filing of the relevant NDA. However, there is no guarantee that any such application will be approved. 

Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (&#147;FDCA&#148;) 

Market exclusivity provisions under the FDCA, which are independent of patent status and any patent related extensions, can also delay the submission or the approval of certain applications of other companies seeking to reference another company&#146;s NDA. If the new drug is a new chemical entity subject to an NDA, the FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to obtain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or functional group of a molecule responsible for the action of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a so-called Section 505(b)(2) NDA, submitted by another company for another version of such drug where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, such an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement to one of the patents listed with the FDA by the innovator NDA holder. The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, or supplement to an existing NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example new indications, dosages or strengths of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the original active agent. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA. However, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the preclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. 

Other U.S. Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements 

In the United States, our activities are potentially subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (formerly the Health Care Financing Administration), other divisions of the United States Department of Health and Human Services ( e.g. , the Office of Inspector General), the United States Department of Justice and individual United States Attorney offices within the Department of Justice, state attorney generals and state and local governments. For example, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the anti-fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act, the privacy and security provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, and similar state laws, each as amended. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, each as amended. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. Under the Veterans Health Care Act, or VHCA, drug companies are required to offer certain pharmaceutical products at a reduced price to a number of federal agencies including the United States 

&#160;

Department of Veterans Affairs and United States Department of Defense, the Public Health Service and certain private Public Health Service&#151;designated entities in order to participate in other federal funding programs including Medicare and Medicaid. Recent legislative changes purport to require that discounted prices be offered for certain United States Department of Defense purchases for its TRICARE program via a rebate system. Participation under the VHCA requires submission of pricing data and calculation of discounts and rebates pursuant to complex statutory formulas, as well as the entry into government procurement contracts governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulations. 

In order to distribute products commercially, we must comply with state laws that require the registration of manufacturers and wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products in a state, including, in certain states, manufacturers and distributors who ship products into the state even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. Some states also impose requirements on manufacturers and distributors to establish the pedigree of product in the chain of distribution, including some states that require manufacturers and others to adopt new technology capable of tracking and tracing product as it moves through the distribution chain. Several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities, and/or register their sales representatives, as well as to prohibit pharmacies and other healthcare entities from providing certain physician prescribing data to pharmaceutical companies for use in sales and marketing, and to prohibit certain other sales and marketing practices. All of our activities are potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. 

Europe / Rest of World Government Regulation 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of regulations in other jurisdictions governing, among other things, clinical trials and any commercial sales and distribution of our products. 

Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain the requisite approvals from regulatory authorities in foreign countries prior to the commencement of clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. Certain countries outside of the United States have a similar process that requires the submission of a clinical trial application much like the IND prior to the commencement of human clinical trials. In the European Union, for example, a clinical trial application, or CTA, must be submitted to each country&#146;s national health authority and an independent ethics committee, much like the FDA and IRB, respectively. Once the CTA is approved in accordance with a country&#146;s requirements, clinical trials may proceed. 

The requirements and process governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, the clinical trials are conducted in accordance with International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) / WHO Good Clinical Practice standards and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. 

To obtain regulatory approval of an investigational drug under European Union regulatory systems, we must submit a marketing authorization application to the European Medicines Agency, or the EMA. The application used to file an NDA in the United States is similar to that required in the European Union, with the exception of, among other things, country-specific document requirements. 

For other countries outside of the European Union, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, again, the clinical trials are conducted in accordance with GCPs and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. 

If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. 

&#160;

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval. In the United States and markets in other countries, sales of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors include government health administrative authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a drug product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the drug product. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved drug products for a particular indication. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. We may need to conduct expensive pharmaco-economic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to the costs required to obtain the FDA approvals. Our product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. A payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 

In 2003, the United States government enacted legislation providing a partial prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients, which became effective at the beginning of 2006. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for any products for which we receive marketing approval. However, to obtain payments under this program, we would be required to sell products to Medicare recipients through prescription drug plans operating pursuant to this legislation. These plans will likely negotiate discounted prices for our products. Federal, state and local governments in the United States continue to consider legislation to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including the cost of prescription drugs. Future legislation could limit payments for pharmaceuticals such as the product candidates that we are developing. 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, collectively known as the Affordable Care Act, substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacted the pharmaceutical industry. 

The comprehensive overhaul has extended coverage to approximately 20 million previously uninsured Americans. Since its adoption, the Affordable Care Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse, which have affected existing government healthcare programs and have resulted in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. Additionally, the Affordable Care Act, as limited by the United States Supreme Court&#146;s decision in June 2012: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; increases the minimum level of Medicaid rebates payable by manufacturers of brand-name drugs from 15.1% to 23.1%; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; requires collection of rebates for drugs paid by Medicaid managed care organizations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; requires manufacturers to participate in a coverage gap discount program, under which they must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer&#146;s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D, beginning January 2011; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; imposes a non-deductible annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell &#147;branded prescription drugs&#148; to specified federal government programs. There have been proposed in Congress a number of legislative initiatives regarding healthcare, including possible repeal of the Affordable Care Act. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the 

&#160;

Affordable Care Act, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. The full impact that the Affordable Care Act and other new laws will have on our business remains uncertain. Nor is it clear whether other legislative changes will be adopted, if any, or how such changes would affect the demand for our licensed products or our product candidates once commercialized. 

Different pricing and reimbursement schemes exist in other countries. In the European Community, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part of the cost of those products to consumers. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular product candidate to currently available therapies. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert a commercial pressure on pricing within a country. 

The marketability of any drug candidates for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payers fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and we expect will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

Manufacturing 

We do not have our own manufacturing capabilities, except with respect to limited amounts of active pharmaceutical ingredients needed for preclinical development. In the past we have relied on third-party manufacturers for supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients, and we expect that in the future we will rely on such manufacturers for supply of ingredients that will be used in clinical trials of our product candidates that we are developing ourselves. Manufacturing for each of our two lead product candidates, namely paritaprevir and ABT-493 are being conducted by AbbVie. We do not expect to establish our own manufacturing facilities and we will continue to rely on third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of any product candidates that we commercialize ourselves. We believe that all of the materials required for the manufacture of those product candidates could be obtained from more than one source. 

Sales and Marketing 

We currently do not have any commercialization or sales and marketing capabilities, and currently have no fixed plans to invest in or build such capabilities internally. We have partnered our lead product candidate with AbbVie. We may also partner or collaborate with, or license commercial rights to, other larger pharmaceutical or biopharmaceutical companies to support the development of our cyclophilin inhibitor product candidates, or other product candidates for large market indications, through late-stage clinical development and, if successful, commercialization. However, we still retain all commercial rights to our independent programs and we will continue to evaluate our alternatives for commercializing them once they are more advanced in their clinical development. 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016, we had 76 full-time employees, 43 of whom hold Ph.D. or M.D. degrees. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement or represented by a trade or labor union. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

&#160;

