 ITEM 1: BUSINESS 

Unless we have indicated otherwise, or the context otherwise requires, references in this report to "Associated Capital Group, Inc.," "AC Group," "the Company," "AC," "we," "us" and "our" or similar terms are to Associated Capital Group, Inc., its predecessors and its subsidiaries.

Our principal executive offices are located at One Corporate Center, Rye, New York 10580. We post or provide a link on our website, www.associated-capital-group.com , to the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission" or "SEC"): our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings on our website are available free of charge.

The Spin-off and Related Transactions

We are a newly formed Delaware corporation organized to be the parent operating company for the Spin-off of GAMCO Investors, Inc.'s ("GAMCO's") alternative investment management business, institutional research services operations and certain cash and other assets.

On November 30, 2015, GAMCO distributed all the outstanding shares of each class of common stock of AC Group on a pro rata one-for-one basis to the holders of each class of GAMCO's common stock. Prior to the distribution, GAMCO contributed the 93.9% interest it held in Gabelli Securities, Inc. ("GSI") and certain cash and other assets to AC Group. GSI is an investment adviser registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended.

GSI and its wholly owned subsidiary, Gabelli &#38; Partners, LLC ("Gabelli &#38; Partners"), collectively serve as general partners, co-general partners or investment managers to investment funds including limited partnerships and offshore companies (collectively, "Investment Partnerships"), and separate accounts. We primarily manage assets in equity event-driven value strategies, across a range of risk and event arbitrage portfolios. The business earns fees from its advisory assets, and income (loss) from trading and investment portfolio activities. The advisory fees include management and incentive fees. Management fees are largely based on a percentage of the portfolios' levels of assets under management. Incentive fees are based on the percentage of profits derived from the investment performance delivered to clients' invested assets.

We operate our institutional research services operations through G.research, LLC ("G.research"), a wholly owned subsidiary of GSI. G.research is a broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Through G.research, we provide institutional research services as well as act as an underwriter. G.research is regulated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"). G.research's revenues are derived primarily from institutional research services.

In addition, the following transactions were also undertaken in connection with the Spin-off:

GAMCO issued a promissory note (the "GAMCO Note") to AC Group in the original principal amount of $250.0 million used to partially capitalize the Company in connection with the Spin-off. The GAMCO Note bears interest at 4.0% per annum and has a maturity date of November 30, 2020 with respect to the original principal amount of the GAMCO Note. Interest on the GAMCO Note will accrue from the most recent date for which interest has been paid, or if no interest has been paid, from the effective date of the GAMCO Note; provided, however, that at the election of GAMCO, payment of interest on the GAMCO Note may, in lieu of being paid in cash, be paid, in whole or in part, in kind on the then-outstanding principal amount (a "PIK Amount"). GAMCO will repay the original principal amount of the GAMCO Note to AC Group, in cash, in five equal annual installments of $50 million on each interest payment date up to and including the maturity date and will repay all PIK Amounts added to the outstanding principal amount of the GAMCO Note, in cash, on the fifth anniversary of the date on which each such PIK Amount was added to the outstanding principal amount of the GAMCO Note. In no event may any interest be paid in kind subsequent to November 30, 2019. GAMCO may prepay the GAMCO Note prior to maturity without penalty.

In addition, AC Group, through its majority-owned GSI subsidiary, owns 4,393,055 shares of GAMCO Class A common stock. The sale was made from GAMCO to GSI in advance of the Spin-off. GSI paid the purchase price by issuing a note to GAMCO in the principal amount of $150 million (the "GSI Note"). In connection with the Spin-off, AC Group received the GSI Note from GAMCO and GSI became a majority-owned subsidiary of AC Group. The GSI Note is thus now an intercompany note within the AC Group.

Alternative Investment Management

We primarily manage assets in equity event-driven value strategies, across a range of risk and event arbitrage portfolios. The business earns fees from its advisory assets, and income (loss) from trading and investment portfolio activities. The advisory fees include management and incentive fees. Management fees are largely based on a percentage of the portfolios' levels of assets under management ("AUM"). Incentive fees are based on the percentage of profits derived from the investment performance. As of December 31, 2015, we managed a total of $1.08 billion in assets.

In our event-driven value funds we seek investments trading at prices that differ from those determined using our proprietary "Private Market Value (PMV) with a Catalyst" methodology where we have identified a near-term catalyst to narrow the market difference to PMV. Catalysts can include a spin-off, stock buyback, asset sale, management change, regulatory change or accounting change.

Event merger arbitrage is a subset of event-driven value investing where the catalyst, for example, an acquisition of the company, has been announced. In event merger arbitrage, the goal is to capture the difference between the market value of a security and what the acquirer is paying in the acquisition. Returns in merger arbitrage are primarily driven by the successful completion of the announced transactions in the portfolio. Other factors that can affect returns include short-term interest rates and the availability of investable deals. While merger arbitrage returns have historically been non-market correlated and deal-specific, event-driven value returns are more correlated to broader equity markets.

We generally manage assets on a discretionary basis and invest in a variety of U.S. and foreign securities utilizing a bottom up value investment style. Our managed funds primarily employ absolute return strategies such that we strive to generate positive returns regardless of market cycles or performance.

We introduced our first alternative fund, a merger arbitrage partnership, Gabelli Arbitrage (renamed Gabelli Associates), in February 1985. We then launched the Gabelli Rosenthal partnership in July 1985 to focus on leveraged buyout opportunities. An offshore version of the event merger arbitrage strategy was added in 1989. Building on our strengths in global event-driven value investing, several new Investment Partnerships have been added to balance investors' geographic, strategy and sector needs. Today, we offer Investment Partnerships in multiple categories, including event merger arbitrage, event-driven value and others across a broad range of absolute return products. Within our event merger arbitrage strategy, as of December 31, 2015, we managed approximately $869 million of assets for investors who seek positive returns not correlated to fluctuations of the general market. These funds seek to drive returns by investing mostly in announced merger and acquisition transactions that are primarily dependent on deal closure and less on the overall market environment. In event-driven value, as of December 31, 2015, we managed approximately $145 million of assets focused on the U.S. and non-U.S. Markets. We also manage $66 million of assets in a variety of other series of Investment Partnerships designed to offer investors a mechanism to diversify their portfolios by global economic and sectoral opportunities. These include sector, high yield, capital structure and venture capital or merchant banking portfolios. Since our inception, we have been closely identified with, and have enhanced, the "value" style of investing consistent with our fundamental objective of providing an absolute return for our clients. Our investment objective is to earn a superior risk-adjusted return over the long-term through our proprietary fundamental research. We serve a wide variety of investors including private wealth management accounts, corporations, corporate pension and profit-sharing plans, foundations and endowments, as well as serving as sub-advisor to certain third-party investment funds.

Assets Under Management 

The following table sets forth AC's total AUM for the dates shown.

Assets Under Management (a)

&#160; (in millions)

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Year Ended December 31,

&#160; &#160; 2015

&#160; 2014

&#160; 2013

&#160; 2012

&#160; 2011

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Event-Driven Arb

&#160;$ &#160;

&#160; &#160;$ &#160;

&#160; &#160;$ &#160;

&#160; &#160;$ &#160;

&#160; &#160;$ &#160;

&#160; Event-Driven Value (b)

&#160; &#160; 145

&#160; &#160; &#160; 167

&#160; &#160; &#160; 140

&#160; &#160; &#160; 124

&#160; &#160; &#160; 132

&#160; Other (c)

&#160; &#160; 66

&#160; &#160; &#160; 77

&#160; &#160; &#160; 76

&#160; &#160; &#160; 75

&#160; &#160; &#160; 65

&#160; Total AUM

&#160;$ &#160;

1,080

&#160; &#160;$ &#160;

1,040

&#160; &#160;$ &#160;

&#160; &#160;$ &#160;

&#160; &#160;$ &#160;

&#160; &#160;

(a) Asset levels include managed accounts, partnerships and offshore companies. 

(b) Excluding event merger arbitrage. 

(c) Includes investment vehicles focused on private equity, merchant banking, non-investment-grade credit and capital structure arbitrage. 

Institutional Research Services

Through G.research, we provide institutional research services and act as an underwriter. G.research is regulated by FINRA. G.research's revenues are derived primarily from institutional research services, underwriting fees and selling concessions. As noted below, a significant portion of our institutional research services and underwriting revenues are from GAMCO and its affiliates. While the Spin-off is not expected to have any impact on our provision of these services to GAMCO and its affiliates, we can provide no assurance that GAMCO and its affiliates will continue use our institutional research and underwriting services to the same extent after the Spin-off. G.research provides institutional investors with investment ideas in numerous industries and special situations. Our research analysts are industry-focused, following sectors based on our core competencies. They research companies of all market capitalizations on a global basis, with a particular emphasis on small-cap and mid-cap companies. The primary function of the research team is to gather data, array the data, and then project and interpret data from which investment decisions can be made. Analysts publish their insights in the form of research reports and daily notes. In addition, G.research hosts selected conferences each year which bring together industry leaders and institutional investors. The objective of institutional research services is to provide superior investment ideas to investment decision makers.

Analysts are generally assigned to research platforms, coordinated by a senior analyst, in order to ensure a consistent process, enhance idea cross-fertilization and knowledge-sharing. Our research platforms include Digital, which includes cable, telecommunications, broadcasting, publishing, advertising, entertainment and technology; utilities and renewable energy; Consumer, Health and Wellness, Autos, Aerospace and Capital Goods; Natural Resources; and Financial Services.

G.research generates institutional research services revenues via hard dollar payments or through securities transactions executed on an agency basis on behalf of clients. Clients include institutional investors, such as hedge funds and asset managers, as well as affiliated mutual funds and client accounts. Institutional research services revenues totaled $8.4 million and $9.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. G.research earned $4.9 million and $4.7 million, or approximately 59% and 54%, of its commission revenue from transactions executed on behalf of funds advised by Gabelli Funds, LLC, and clients advised by GAMCO Asset Management Inc. for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, Gabelli Funds, LLC and GAMCO Asset Management Inc. paid $0.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively, to G.research pursuant to research services agreements. Gabelli Funds, LLC and GAMCO Asset Management Inc. are both wholly owned subsidiaries of GAMCO. G.research continues to pursue expansion of third party and affiliated activities.

GSI Minority Ownership

Certain employees of the Company or its affiliates own 1.9% of GSI, and the remaining 4.2% of GSI is owned by investors unrelated to the Company. Stockholders of GSI who are employees of the Company or its affiliates must sell their GSI shares to GSI at the book value per share of the previous fiscal year end when they leave the firm. The book value per share of GSI was $88.64 and $102.18 at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Proprietary Trading

We received a substantial portfolio of cash and investments held by GAMCO prior to the Spin-off. We expect to use this proprietary investment portfolio to provide seed capital in introducing new products, expand our geographic presence, develop new markets and pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances and lift-outs, as well as for shareholder compensation in the form of share repurchases and dividends. Our proprietary portfolios are largely invested in products we manage or that are managed by GAMCO. 

Business Strategy

Our business strategy targets global growth of the business through continued leveraging of our proven asset management strengths including the long-term performance record of our alternative investment funds, diverse product offerings and experienced investment, research and client relationship professionals. In order to achieve performance and growth in AUM and profitability, we are pursuing a strategy which includes the following key elements:

Continuing an Active Fundamental Investment Approach

We have been managing hedge fund assets since 1985, when we launched our first merger arbitrage fund which still exists today, with an unparalleled thirty year track record. Our results through a multitude of market cycles clearly demonstrates our core competence in event driven investing. Our legacy of Gabelli "Private Market Value (PMV) with a Catalyst&#8482;" investing remains the principal management philosophy guiding our business operations. This method is based on investing principles articulated by Graham &#38; Dodd, and has been further augmented by our founder Mario J. Gabelli. This approach, however, will not necessarily be utilized in connection with all products.

Growing our Investment Partnerships Advisory Business

We intend to grow our Investment Partnerships advisory business by gaining share in existing products and introducing new products within our core competencies, such as event and merger arbitrage. In addition, we intend to grow internationally.

Capitalizing on Acquisitions, Alliances and Lift-outs

We intend to leverage our research and investment capabilities to selectively and opportunistically pursue acquisitions, alliances and lift-outs that will broaden our product offerings and add new sources of distribution.

Pursuing Partnerships and Joint Ventures

We plan to pursue partnerships and joint ventures with partners that we believe have a strong fit with AC with respect to product quality and that might provide Asian/European distribution capabilities that would complement our U.S. equity product expertise. We expect to pursue investments in operating businesses based on our principal management philosophy, targeting opportunities with non-market correlated returns.

Growing our Institutional Research Services Business 

We intend to grow our Institutional Research Services business by increasing the breadth of our client base and by increasing our touch points and interactions with existing clientele in an effort to increase trading activity and payment flow.

&#160;

Continuing Our Sponsorship of Industry Conferences

G.research, our institutional research services business, sponsors industry conferences and management events throughout the year. At these conferences and events, senior management from leading companies share their thoughts on the industry, competition, regulation and the challenges and opportunities in their businesses with portfolio managers and securities analysts. These meetings are an important component of the research services provided to institutional clients. In 2015, G.research hosted 7 such meetings:

&#9679;

39th Annual Automotive Aftermarket Symposium

&#9679;

25th Annual Pump, Valve &#38; Water Systems Conference

&#9679;

21st Annual Aircraft Supplier Conference

&#9679;

7th Annual Movie &#38; Entertainment Conference

&#9679;

6th Annual Specialty Chemicals Conference

&#9679;

3 rd Television Broadcast Symposium

&#9679;

Inaugural Waste &#38; Environmental Services Conference

We also have a tradition of sponsoring institutional investor symposiums that bring together prominent portfolio managers, members of academia and other leading business professionals to present, discuss and debate current issues and topics in the investment industry. These symposiums have included:

&#160;

2015:

"Capital Allocation &#8211; The Tug of War"

2013:

"Value Investing 20 Years Later: A Celebration of the Roger Murray Lecture Series"

2006:

"Closed-End Funds: Premiums vs. Discounts, Dividends and Distributions"

2003:

"Dividends, Taxable versus Non-Taxable Issues"

2001:

1998:

"Virtues of Value Investing"

"The Role of Hedge Funds as a Way of Generating Absolute Returns"

1997:

"Active vs. Passive Stock Selection"

&#160;

Attracting and Retaining Experienced Professionals

We offer significant variable compensation that provides opportunities to our staff. We expect to increase the scope of our investment management capabilities by adding portfolio managers and other investment personnel in order to expand our product offerings. Our ability to attract and retain highly experienced investment and other professionals with a long-term commitment to us and our clients has been, and will continue to be, a significant factor in our long-term growth.

Competition

The alternative asset management industry is intensively competitive and is expected to remain so. We face competition in all aspects of our business and in each of our investment strategies from other managers in the United States and globally. We compete with other alternative investment management firms, insurance companies, banks, brokerage firms and other financial institutions that offer products that have similar features and investment objectives. Many of these investment management firms are subsidiaries of large diversified financial companies and may have access to greater resources, including liquidity sources, not available to us. Many others are much larger in terms of AUM and revenues and, accordingly, have much larger sales organizations and marketing budgets. Historically, we have competed primarily on the basis of the long-term investment performance of many of our investment products. However, we have recently taken steps to increase our distribution channels, brand name awareness and marketing efforts.

The market for providing investment management services to institutional and private wealth management clients is also highly competitive. Selection of investment advisors by U.S. institutional investors is often subject to a screening process and to favorable recommendations by investment industry consultants. Many of these investors require their investment advisors to have a successful and sustained performance record, often five years or longer, with focus also on one-year and three-year performance records. We have significantly increased our AUM on behalf of U.S. institutional investors since our entry into the institutional asset management business. At the current time, we believe that our investment performance record would be attractive to potential new institutional and private wealth management clients. However, no assurance can be given that our efforts to obtain new business will be successful.

Intellectual Property

Service marks and brand name recognition are important to our business. We have rights to the service marks under which our products are offered. We have rights to use the "Gabelli" name, and the "GAMCO" name, pursuant to a Service Mark and Name License Agreement, a non-exclusive, royalty-free perpetual license agreement we have entered into with GAMCO (the "Service Mark and Name License Agreement"). GAMCO has licensed to us its rights to the "Gabelli" name and the "GAMCO" name for use with respect to our funds, collective investment vehicles, investment partnerships and other investment products pursuant to the Service Mark and Name License Agreement. The Service Mark and Name License Agreement has a perpetual term, subject to termination only in the event we are not in compliance with the quality control provisions in the Service Mark and Name License Agreement. Pursuant to an assignment agreement signed in 1999, Mario J. Gabelli had assigned to GAMCO all of his rights, title and interests in and to the "Gabelli" name for use in connection with investment management services and institutional research services. In addition, the funds managed by Mario J. Gabelli outside GAMCO and AC have entered into a license agreement with GAMCO permitting them to continue limited use of the "Gabelli" name under specified circumstances.

Regulation

Virtually all aspects of our businesses are subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investment advisory clients and investors, the markets and customers of broker-dealers. Under such laws and regulations, agencies that regulate investment advisors and broker-dealers have broad powers, including the power to limit, restrict or prohibit such an advisor or broker-dealer from carrying on its business in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. In such an event, the possible sanctions that may be imposed include civil and criminal liability, the suspension of individual employees, injunctions, limitations on engaging in certain lines of business for specified periods of time, revocation of the investment advisor and other registrations, censures and fines.

Global Regulatory Reform

We are subject to numerous regulatory reform initiatives in each country in which we do business. Any such initiative, or any new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could materially and adversely impact the scope or profitability of AC's business activities, lead to business disruptions, require AC to change certain business practices and expose AC to additional costs (including compliance and legal costs), as well as reputational harm. AC's profitability also could be materially and adversely affected by modification of the rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities in general, including changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "DFA") was signed into law in the United States. The DFA is expansive in scope and requires the adoption of extensive regulations and numerous regulatory decisions, many of which have been adopted. As the impact of these rules will become evident over time, it is not yet possible to predict the ultimate effects that the DFA, or subsequent implementing regulations and decisions, will have upon AC's business, financial condition and results of operations.

Securities and Exchange Commission Review of Asset Managers. Our business may also be impacted by the SEC regulatory initiatives. For example, on December 11, 2014 the Chair of the SEC announced that she is recommending that the SEC enhance its oversight of asset managers by (i) expanding and updating data requirements with which asset managers must comply, (ii) improving fund level controls, including those related to liquidity levels and the nature of specific instruments and (iii) ensuring that asset management firms have appropriate transition plans in place to deal with market stress events or situations where an investment adviser is no longer able to serve its clients. Although these recommendations have not yet resulted in any proposed rules, any additional SEC oversight or the introduction of any new reporting, disclosure or control requirements could expose us to additional compliance costs and may require us to change how we operate our business.

Taxation. Our global business may be impacted by the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act ("FATCA"), which was enacted in 2010 and introduced expansive new investor onboarding, withholding and reporting rules aimed at ensuring U.S. persons with financial assets outside of the United States pay appropriate taxes. In many instances, however, the precise nature of what needs to be implemented will be governed by bilateral Intergovernmental Agreements ("IGAs") between the United States and the countries in which we do business or have accounts. While many of these IGAs have been put into place, others have yet to be concluded. The FATCA rules will impact both U.S. and non-U.S. Funds and subject us to extensive additional administrative burdens. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development has also recently launched the business erosion and profit shifting ("BEPS") proposal that aims to rationalize tax treatment across jurisdictions. If the BEPS proposal becomes the subject of legislative action in the format proposed, it could have unintended taxation consequences for collective investment vehicles and our tax position, which could adversely affect our financial condition.

In addition, certain individual EU Member States, such as France and Italy, have enacted national financial transaction taxes ("FTTs"). There has also been renewed momentum by several other Member States to introduce FTTs, which would impose taxation on a broad range of financial instrument and derivatives transactions. In general, any tax on securities and derivatives transactions would impact investors and would likely have a negative impact on the liquidity of the securities and derivatives markets, could diminish the attractiveness of certain types of products that we manage in those countries and could cause clients to shift assets away from such products. An FTT could significantly increase the operational costs of our entering into, on behalf of our clients, securities and derivatives transactions that would be subjected to an FTT, which could adversely impact our financial results and clients' performance results.

Our business could also be impacted to the extent there are other changes to tax laws. For example, the administration recently announced its proposed U.S. federal budget, which called for new industry fees for financial firms. To the extent such fees are adopted and found to apply to us; such fees could adversely affect our financial results.

Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive. Our European business is impacted by the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive ("AIFMD"), which became effective on July 21, 2011. The AIFMD regulates managers of, and service providers to, a broad range of alternative investment funds ("AIFs") domiciled within and (depending on the precise circumstances) outside the EU. The AIFMD also regulates the marketing of all AIFs inside the European Economic Area ("EEA"). The AIFMD is being implemented in stages, which run through 2018. Compliance with the AIFMD's requirements restrict alternative investment fund marketing and impose additional compliance and disclosure obligations regarding remuneration, capital requirements, leverage, valuation, stakes in EU companies, depositaries, the domicile of custodians and liquidity management on AC. These new compliance and disclosure obligations and the associated risk management and reporting requirements will subject us to additional expenses.

Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities. &#160; The EU has also adopted directives on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ("UCITS") as regards depositary functions, remuneration policies and sanctions. The latest initiative in this area, UCITS V, which became effective in September 2014, seeks to align the depositary regime, remuneration rules and sanctioning powers of regulators under the UCITS Directive with the requirements of the AIFMD. UCITS V is required to be adopted in the national law of each EU member state during the second quarter of 2016. Similarly, in August 2014 ESMA revised the guidelines it initially published in 2012 on exchange-traded funds and other UCITS funds. The guidelines introduced new collateral management requirements for UCITS funds concerning collateral received in the context of derivatives using Efficient Portfolio Management ("EPM") techniques (including securities lending) and over-the-counter derivative transactions. These rules, which are now in effect, required us to make a series of changes to its collateral management arrangements applicable to the EPM of its UCITS fund ranges. Compliance with the UCITS directives will cause us to incur additional expenses associated with new risk management and reporting requirements.

Existing U.S. Regulation Overview

AC and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries are currently subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the federal level, by the SEC, the Department of Labor, FINRA and other government agencies and regulatory bodies. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries are also subject to various anti-terrorist financing, privacy, anti-money laundering regulations and economic sanctions laws and regulations established by various agencies.

The Investment Advisers Act of 1940

GSI is registered with the SEC under the Advisers Act and is regulated by and subject to examination by the SEC. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisors including fiduciary duties, disclosure obligations and record keeping, operational and marketing requirements. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act, ranging from censure to termination of an investment advisor's registration. The failure of GSI to comply with the requirements of the SEC could have a material adverse effect on us.

We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from investment advisory services through our various investment management agreements. Under the Advisers Act, our investment management agreements may not be assigned without the client's consent.

Broker-Dealer and Trading and Investment Regulation

G.research is registered as broker-dealer with the SEC and is subject to regulation by FINRA and various states. In its capacity as a broker-dealer, G.research is required to maintain certain minimum net capital amounts. These requirements also provide that equity capital may not be withdrawn, advances to affiliates may not be made or cash dividends paid if certain minimum net capital requirements are not met. G.research's net capital, as defined, met or exceeded all minimum requirements as of December 31, 2015. As a registered broker-dealer, G.research is also subject to periodic examination by FINRA, the SEC and the state regulatory authorities.

Our trading and investment activities for client accounts are regulated under the Exchange Act, as well as the rules of various U.S. and non-U.S. securities exchanges and self-regulatory organizations, including laws governing trading on inside information, market manipulation and a broad number of technical requirements (e.g., short sale limits, volume limitations and reporting obligations) and market regulation policies in the United States and globally. Violation of any of these laws and regulations could result in restrictions on our activities and damage our reputation.

Potential Legislation Relating to Private Pools of Capital

We manage a variety of private pools of capital, including hedge funds. Congress, regulators, tax authorities and others continue to explore, on their own and in response to demands from the investment community and the public, increased regulation related to private pools of capital, including changes with respect to investor eligibility, certain limitations on trading activities, record-keeping and reporting, the scope of anti- fraud protections, safekeeping of client assets and a variety of other matters. AC may be materially and adversely affected by new legislation, rule-making or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing rules and regulations imposed by various regulators.

Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (" ERISA") 

Subsidiaries of AC are subject to ERISA and to regulations promulgated thereunder, insofar as they are "fiduciaries" under ERISA with respect to certain of their clients ERISA and applicable provisions of the Code, impose certain duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA and prohibit certain transactions involving ERISA plan clients. Our failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us.

The Patriot Act

The USA Patriot Act of 2001 contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including standards for verifying client identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the United States contain some similar provisions. Our failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us.

Laws and Other Issues Relating to Taking Significant Equity Stakes in Companies

Investments by AC and on behalf of our advisory clients and Investment Partnerships often represent a significant equity ownership position in an issuer's class of stock. As of December 31, 2015, we had five percent or more beneficial ownership with respect to 116 equity securities (this is partially due to the fact that we may be deemed to be a member of "group" with GAMCO and therefore may be deemed to beneficially own the securities owned by that group). This activity raises frequent regulatory, legal and disclosure issues regarding our aggregate beneficial ownership level with respect to portfolio securities, including issues relating to issuers' stockholder rights plans or "poison pills," and various federal and state regulatory limitations, including state gaming laws and regulations, federal communications laws and regulations and federal and state public utility laws and regulations, as well as federal proxy rules governing stockholder communications and federal laws and regulations regarding the reporting of beneficial ownership positions. Our failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us.

Existing International Regulation Overview

Our international operations are subject to the laws and regulations of a number of international jurisdictions, as well as oversight by numerous regulatory agencies and bodies in those jurisdictions. In some instances, they are also affected by U.S. laws and regulations that have extra-territorial application.

Below is a summary of certain international regulatory standards to which AC is subject. It is not meant to be comprehensive as there are parallel legal and regulatory arrangements in force in many jurisdictions where AC's subsidiaries conduct business.

Of note among the various other international regulations to which AC is subject, are the extensive and increasingly stringent regulatory reporting requirements that necessitate the monitoring and reporting of issuer exposure levels (thresholds) across the holdings of managed funds and accounts and those of AC.

European Regulation

The Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") currently regulates AC in the United Kingdom. It also regulates those U.K. subsidiaries' branches established in other European countries and the U.K. branches of certain of AC's U.S. subsidiaries. Authorization by the FCA is required to conduct certain financial services related business in the United Kingdom under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The FCA's rules adopted under that Act govern the majority of a firm's capital resources requirements, senior management arrangements, and conduct of business, interaction with clients and systems and controls. The FCA supervises AC through a combination of proactive engagement, event-driven and reactive supervision and thematic based reviews in order to monitor our compliance with regulatory requirements. Breaches of the FCA's rules may result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against our U.K.-regulated subsidiaries and/or its employees.

In addition, our U.K.-regulated subsidiaries and other European subsidiaries and branches must comply with the pan-European regulatory regime established by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive ("MiFID"), which became effective on November 1, 2007 and regulates the provision of investment services and activities throughout the wider EEA. MiFID, the scope of which is being enhanced through MiFID 2 which is described more particularly under "&#8212;Global Regulatory Reform" above, sets out detailed requirements governing the organization and conduct of business of investment firms and regulated markets. It also includes pre- and post-trade transparency requirements for equity markets and extensive transaction reporting requirements. In addition, relevant entities must comply with revised obligations on capital resources for banks and certain investment firms (the Capital Requirements Directive), which became effective in January 2014. These include requirements not only on capital, but address matters of governance and remuneration as well. The obligations introduced through these directives will have a direct effect on some of our European operations.

Our EU-regulated subsidiaries are additionally subject to an EU regulation on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories, which was adopted in August 2012 and which requires (i) the central clearing of standardized OTC derivatives, (ii) the application of risk-mitigation techniques to non-centrally cleared OTC derivatives and (iii) the reporting of all derivative contracts from February 2014.

Regulatory Matters

The investment management industry is likely to continue facing a high level of regulatory scrutiny and become subject to additional rules designed to increase disclosure, tighten controls and reduce potential conflicts of interest. In addition, the Commission has substantially increased its use of focused inquiries which request information from investment advisors and a number of fund complexes regarding particular practices or provisions of the securities laws. We participate in some of these inquiries in the normal course of our business. Changes in laws, regulations and administrative practices by regulatory authorities, and the associated compliance costs, have increased our cost structure and could in the future have a material adverse impact. Although we have installed procedures and utilize the services of experienced administrators, accountants and lawyers to assist us in adhering to regulatory guidelines and satisfying these requirements, and maintain insurance to protect ourselves in the case of client losses, there can be no assurance that the precautions and procedures that we have instituted and installed, or the insurance that we maintain to protect ourselves in case of client losses, will protect us from all potential liabilities.

Employees

On February 29, 2016, we had a full-time staff of 72 teammates, of whom 45 served in the portfolio management, research and trading areas, 19 served in the marketing and shareholder servicing areas and 8 served in the administrative area. We also avail ourselves of services provided by GAMCO employees in accordance with the Transitional Services Agreement that were entered into with GAMCO as part of the Spin-off.

Status as an Emerging Growth Company and a Smaller Reporting Company

We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act, and we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not "emerging growth companies." These exemptions include not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.

We may take advantage of some or all of the reduced regulatory and reporting requirements that will be available to us as long as we qualify as an emerging growth company, except that we have irrevocably elected not to take advantage of the extension of time to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards available under Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act.

We will, in general, remain as an emerging growth company for up to five full fiscal years following the Spin-off. We would cease to be an emerging growth company and, therefore, become ineligible to rely on the above exemptions, if we:

&#9679;

have more than $1 billion in annual revenue in a fiscal year;

&#9679;

issue more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period; or

&#9679;

become a "large accelerated filer" as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2, which would occur after: (i) we have filed at least one annual report pursuant to the Exchange Act; (ii) we have been an SEC-reporting company for at least 12 months; and (iii) the market value of AC common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter.

In addition, we qualify as a "smaller reporting company" under the Exchange Act. As a smaller reporting company, we enjoy many of the same exemptions as emerging growth companies, in addition to scaled disclosures. We will likely cease to be a smaller reporting company beginning in the year after our public float at the end of the second quarter of our fiscal year (June 30) exceeds $75 million. We expect this to occur on June 30, 2016, and as such we would be required to transition out of the scaled disclosure system for "smaller reporting companies" by the time we filed our quarterly report on Form 10-Q covering the first fiscal quarter of the fiscal year 2017, which would be due in May 2017. However, we would still be able to avail ourselves of the "emerging growth company" exemptions.

