 Item 1. Business 

Our Company 

Fortress Transportation and Infrastructure Investors LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the &#8220;Company&#8221;), was formed on February 19, 2014. Except as otherwise specified, &#8220;FTAI&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221;, &#8220;our&#8221;, and &#8220;the Company&#8221; refer to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Fortress Worldwide Transportation and Infrastructure General Partnership (&#8220;Holdco&#8221;). Our business has been, and will continue to be, conducted through Holdco for the purpose of acquiring, managing and disposing of transportation and transportation-related infrastructure and equipment assets. Fortress Worldwide Transportation and Infrastructure Master GP LLC (the &#8220;Master GP&#8221;), owns 0.05% of Holdco and is the general partner of Holdco, which was formed on May 9, 2011 and commenced operations on June 23, 2011. 

Pursuant to a management agreement, we are externally managed and advised by FIG LLC (the &#8220;Manager&#8221;), an affiliate of Fortress Investment Group LLC (&#8220;Fortress&#8221;). Fortress is a leading global investment management firm with $70.5 billion &#32;of assets under management as of December 31, 2015 , and has a dedicated team of professionals who collectively have acquired over $17 billion in transportation-related assets since 2002. 

We own and acquire high quality infrastructure and equipment that is essential for the transportation of goods and people globally. We currently invest across four market sectors: aviation, energy, intermodal transport and rail. We target assets that, on a combined basis, generate strong and stable cash flows with the potential for earnings growth and asset appreciation. Our existing mix of assets provides significant cash flows as well as organic growth potential through identified projects. In addition, we believe that there are a large number of acquisition opportunities in our target sectors and that our Manager&#8217;s expertise and business and financing relationships, together with our access to capital, will allow us to take advantage of these opportunities. As of December 31, 2015 , we had total consolidated assets of $1.6 billion &#32;and total equity of $ 1.3 billion . 

Our operations consist of two primary strategic business units - Infrastructure and Equipment Leasing. Our Infrastructure Business acquires long-life assets or operating businesses that provide mission-critical services or functions to transportation networks and typically have high barriers to entry, strong margins, stable cash flows and upside from earnings growth and asset appreciation driven by increased use and inflation. Our Equipment Leasing Business acquires assets that are designed to carry cargo or people or provide functionality to transportation infrastructure. Transportation equipment is typically long-lived, moveable and leased by us to companies that provide transportation services on either operating leases or finance leases. Our leases generally provide for long-term contractual cash flow with high cash-on-cash yields and may include structural protections to mitigate credit risk. We believe that our existing asset base provides stable cash flow generation with over half of our revenue contracted and the remainder coming from markets with stable or growing demand outlook. 

The charts below illustrate our existing assets, and our equity deployed in acquiring these assets separated by reporting segment as of December 31, 2015 : 

Note: 

&#8226; 

Excludes $384 million of assets and $380 million of equity reflected in our corporate operating segment. 

&#8226; 

Jefferson Terminal and Railroad are included in our Infrastructure Business; Aviation Leasing, Offshore Energy and Shipping Containers are included in our Equipment Leasing Business. 

Our Strategy 

We invest across a number of major sectors within the transportation industry, including aviation, energy, intermodal transport and rail, and we may pursue acquisitions in other areas as and when they arise in the future. In general, we seek to own a diverse mix of high quality infrastructure and equipment within our target sectors that generate predictable cash flows, in markets that we believe provide the potential for strong long-term growth and attractive returns on deployed capital. We believe that by investing in a diverse mix of assets across sectors, we can select from among the best risk-adjusted investment opportunities, while avoiding overconcentration in any one segment, further adding to the stability of our business. 

We take a proactive investment approach by identifying key secular trends as they emerge within our target sectors and then pursuing what we believe are the most compelling opportunities within those sectors. We look for unique investments, including assets that are distressed or undervalued, or where we believe that we can add value through active management. We consider investments across the size spectrum, including smaller opportunities often overlooked by other investors, particularly where we believe we may be able to grow the investment over time. We believe one of our strengths is our ability to create attractive follow-on investment opportunities and deploy incremental capital within our existing portfolio. 

Within each sector, we consider investments in operating infrastructure as well as in equipment that we lease to operators. Within the rail sector, for example, we target rail lines and rail terminals (which we classify as infrastructure), as well as railcars (which on a stand-alone basis we classify as leasing equipment). We believe that as owners of both infrastructure and equipment assets, we have access to more opportunities and can be a more attractive counterparty to the users of our assets. Our Manager has significant prior experience in all of our target sectors, as well as a network of industry relationships, that we believe positions us well to make successful acquisitions and to actively manage and improve operations and cash flow of our existing and newly-acquired assets. These relationships include senior executives at lessors and operators, end users of transportation and infrastructure assets, as well as banks, lenders and other asset owners. 

Asset Acquisition Process 

Our strategy is to acquire assets that are essential to the transportation of goods and people globally. We acquire assets that are used by major operators of transportation and infrastructure networks. We seek to acquire assets and businesses that we believe operate in sectors with long-term macroeconomic growth opportunities and that have significant cash flow and upside potential 

from earnings growth and asset appreciation. 

We approach markets and opportunities by first developing an asset acquisition strategy with our Manager and then pursuing optimal opportunities within that strategy. In addition to relying on our own experience, we source new opportunities through our Manager&#8217;s network of industry relationships in order to find, structure and execute attractive acquisitions. These relationships include senior executives at industry leading operators, end users of the assets as well as banks, lenders and other asset owners. We believe that sourcing assets both globally and through multiple channels will enable us to find the most attractive opportunities. We are selective in the assets we pursue and efficient in the manner in which we pursue them. 

Once attractive opportunities are identified, our Manager performs detailed due diligence on each of our potential acquisitions. Due diligence on each of our assets always includes a comprehensive review of the asset itself as well as the industry and market dynamics, competitive positioning, and financial and operational performance. Where appropriate, our Manager conducts physical inspections, a review of the credit quality of each of our counterparties, the regulatory environment, and a review of all material documentation. In some cases, third-party specialists are hired to physically inspect and/or value the target assets. 

We and our Manager also spend a significant amount of time on structuring our acquisitions to minimize risks while also optimizing expected returns. We employ what we believe to be reasonable amounts of leverage in connection with our acquisitions. In determining the amount of leverage for each acquisition, we consider a number of characteristics, including, but not limited to, the existing cash flow, the length of the lease or contract term, and the specific counterparty. While leverage on any individual asset may vary, we target overall leverage for our assets on a consolidated basis of no greater than 50% of total capital. 

Management Agreement 

In May 2015, in connection with the IPO, the Company entered into a new management agreement with the Manager, (the &#8220;Management Agreement&#8221;), an affiliate of Fortress, pursuant to which the Manager is paid annual fees in exchange for advising the Company on various aspects of its business, formulating its investment strategies, arranging for the acquisition and disposition of assets, arranging for financing, monitoring performance, and managing its day-to-day operations, inclusive of all costs incidental thereto. 

Under the Management Agreement, the Manager is entitled to a management fee, incentive allocations (comprised of income incentive allocation and capital gains incentive allocation, defined below) and reimbursement of certain expenses. The management fee is determined by taking the average value of total equity (excluding non-controlling interests) determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP at the end of the two most recently completed months multiplied by an annual rate of 1.50%, and is payable monthly in arrears in cash. 

The income incentive allocation is calculated and distributable quarterly in arrears based on the pre-incentive allocation net income for the immediately preceding calendar quarter (the &#8220;Income Incentive Allocation&#8221;). For this purpose, pre-incentive allocation net income means, with respect to a calendar quarter, net income attributable to shareholders during such quarter calculated in accordance with GAAP excluding the Company&#8217;s pro rata share of (1) realized or unrealized gains and losses, and (2) certain non-cash or one-time items, and (3) any other adjustments as may be approved by the Company&#8217;s independent directors. Pre-incentive allocation net income does not include any Income Incentive Allocation or Capital Gains Incentive Allocation (described below) paid to the Master GP during the relevant quarter. 

A subsidiary of the Company allocates and distributes to the Master GP an Income Incentive Allocation with respect to its pre-incentive allocation net income in each calendar quarter as follows: (1) no Income Incentive Allocation in any calendar quarter in which pre-incentive allocation net income, expressed as a rate of return on the average value of the Company&#8217;s net equity capital (excluding non-controlling interests) at the end of the two most recently completed calendar quarters, does not exceed 2.0% for such quarter (8.0% annualized); (2) 100% of pre-incentive allocation net income with respect to that portion of such pre-incentive allocation net income, if any, that is equal to or exceeds 2.00% but does not exceed 2.2223% for such quarter; and (3) 10.0% of the amount of pre-incentive allocation net income, if any, that exceeds 2.2223% for such quarter. 

"Capital Gains Incentive Allocation" is calculated and distributable in arrears as of the end of each calendar year and is equal to 10% of the Company&#8217;s pro rata share of cumulative realized gains from the date of the Company's initial public offering through the end of the applicable calendar year, net of the Company&#8217;s pro rata share of cumulative realized or unrealized losses, the cumulative non-cash portion of equity-based compensation expenses and all realized gains upon which prior performance-based Capital Gains Incentive Allocation payments were made to the Master GP. 

The Company pays all of its operating expenses, except those specifically required to be borne by the Manager under the Management Agreement. The Company will pay or reimburse the Manager and its affiliates for performing certain legal, accounting, due diligence tasks and other services that outside professionals or outside consultants otherwise would perform, provided that such costs and reimbursements are no greater than those which would be paid to outside professionals or consultants. The Manager is responsible for all of its other costs incident to the performance of its duties under the Management Agreement, including compensation of the Manager&#8217;s employees, rent for facilities and other &#8220;overhead&#8221; expenses; the Company will not reimburse the Manager for these expenses. 

If the Company terminates the Management Agreement, it will generally be required to pay the Manager a termination fee, as defined by the Management Agreement. Upon the successful completion of an offering of the Company&#8217;s common shares or other equity securities (including securities issued as consideration in an acquisition), the Company will grant the Manager options to purchase common shares, as defined by the Management Agreement. 

Please refer to Note 14 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details regarding our Management Agreement. 

Our Portfolio 

We own and acquire high quality infrastructure and equipment that is essential for the transportation of goods and people globally. We currently invest across four market sectors: aviation, energy, intermodal transport and rail. We target assets that, on a combined basis, generate strong and stable cash flows with the potential for earnings growth and asset appreciation. 

Infrastructure 

Jefferson Terminal 

In August 2014, we and certain other Fortress affiliates purchased substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Jefferson Terminal, a Texas-based group of companies developing crude oil and refined products logistics assets. As of December 31, 2015, our equity interest in Jefferson is approximately 60%, and other affiliates of Fortress own an additional approximately 20%. 

Jefferson is currently developing a large multi-modal crude oil and refined products handling terminal at the Port of Beaumont, Texas (the &#8220;Port&#8221;) and also owns several other key assets involved in the transportation and processing of crude oil and related products. The majority of Jefferson&#8217;s revenue is expected to be derived from operations at Jefferson Terminal. Jefferson Terminal has a unique combination of direct rail service from three Class I railroads, barge docks and deep water ship loading capacity, capabilities to handle multiple types of crude oil including free-flowing crude as well as bitumen, and a prime location close to Port Arthur and Lake Charles, which are home to refineries with over 2.2 million barrels per day of capacity. 

The terminal&#8217;s prime location and excellent transportation connectivity make it ideally suited to provide logistics solutions to local refineries, including blending, storage and delivery of crude oil, ethanol, propane and refined products. Heavy and extra heavy crude from western Canada (extra heavy crude is predominantly known as &#8216;bitumen&#8217;) is in especially high demand in the Gulf Coast because refineries in the area are configured to handle heavier blends of crude (previously sourced almost exclusively from Mexico and Venezuela) than those in other parts of the U.S. Canadian bitumen offers Gulf Coast refineries an excellent feedstock, which is most cheaply and easily transported by rail rather than pipeline because of its high viscosity. Jefferson is one of only a few terminals in the Gulf that has the heated system capabilities to handle this type of heavy crude. 

Jefferson Terminal is located on approximately 250 acres of land at the Port. Today, Jefferson leases 196 acres from the Port under three separate leases. The three leases have 50 year terms that terminate in June 2062 (20 acres), August 2063 (31 acres), and January 2065 (145 acres). As part of the leases, Jefferson has been granted the concession to operate as the sole handler of liquid hydrocarbons at the Port. Jefferson does not own any land at Jefferson Terminal, but does own the equipment and leasehold improvements carried out as part of the Jefferson Terminal build-out. The Port has invested over $40 million in infrastructure which is being leased by Jefferson Terminal, and plans to invest another $5 million over the next six to 12 months. 

Jefferson has finished construction and begun operations on both the light oil unloading track (the &#8220;Light System&#8221;), which has the capacity to handle up to two unit trains (240 cars) per day of light, free-flowing crude, and the heavy oil unloading track (the &#8220;Heavy System&#8221;), which has the capacity to unload up to one unit train (120 cars) per day of heavy crude or bitumen requiring heating. In addition, Jefferson Terminal has two truck unloading bays, capable of handling approximately 50 trucks, each carrying 170 barrels, per day. In aggregate, including rail and truck handling, Jefferson Terminal has a total unloading capacity of 230,000 barrels per day, and storage tanks with capacity to hold approximately 700,000 barrels. Today, crude oil is brought into the Terminal by rail or truck and then either held in storage, or loaded directly onto a barge for transportation to one of the local refineries or larger storage hubs. We also have the ability to unload or load directly from or to an ocean-going ship (up to Aframax size), which would allow our customers to export crude oil or refined product. We are currently developing direct pipeline connections to local refineries, which will provide them with a lower cost of transportation to and from the Terminal. 

In addition to Jefferson Terminal, Jefferson owns several other energy and transportation-related assets, including 300 tank railcars; a gas processing and condensate stabilization plant; pipeline rights-of-way; and an additional private marine terminal that can be developed to load refined petroleum products onto barges. These assets represent additional opportunities to generate stable, recurring cash flow and can be developed in the future to take advantage of the growing demand for crude oil transportation and processing assets. Over the next twelve months, we expect to invest equity capital to fund working capital needs and future construction as new take-or-pay contracts, which may require additional infrastructure, are executed. 

CMQR 

In the second quarter of 2014, we acquired via a bankruptcy proceeding certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the Montreal, Maine &#38; Atlantic Railroad ("MM&#38;A"). Subsequent to the purchase, MM&#38;A was renamed the Central Maine &#38; Quebec Railroad ("CMQR"). 

CMQR is a 480-mile Class II railroad that runs from Montreal to the east coast of Maine, primarily transporting pulp and paper, construction products and chemicals. The CMQR offers the most direct route from ports in Montreal and on the east coast of the United States to manufacturers and other customers in Maine and Quebec. We believe that CMQR represents an investment in critical infrastructure with a captive customer base at an attractive valuation and significant growth potential. Following the acquisition close in June 2014, we put in place a new management team composed of a number of former RailAmerica, Inc. executives, including John Giles, the former CEO of RailAmerica, Inc. 

Leasing Equipment 

Aviation 

We own and manage 60 aviation assets, including 18 commercial passenger aircraft and 42 commercial jet engines. 

As of December 31, 2015 , 17 of our commercial aircraft, and 23 of our jet engines were leased to operators or other third parties. Aviation assets currently off lease are either undergoing repair and/or maintenance, or are currently held in short term storage awaiting a future lease. On an equity-weighted basis, our aviation equipment was approximately 86% utilized as of December 31, 2015 . Our aircraft assets currently have a weighted average remaining lease term of 33 months, and our engine assets currently on-lease have an average remaining lease term of 13 months. In each case, we work closely with our existing customers to extend current leases, thus avoiding downtime and remarketing costs. The chart below describes the assets in our Aviation Leasing segment: 

Aviation Assets 

&#160; 

Widebody 

Narrowbody 

Total 

Aircraft 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Assets at January 1, 2015 

&#160; 

11 

Purchases 

&#160; 

4 

Sales 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#8212; 

&#8212; 

Assets at December 31, 2015 

&#160; 

15 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Jet Engines 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Assets at January 1, 2015 

&#160; 

15 

Purchases 

&#160; 

17 

Sales 

&#160; 

(1 

) 

(8 

) 

(9 

) 

Assets at December 31, 2015 

&#160; 

24 

Offshore Energy 

We own one Anchor Handling Towing Supply ("AHTS") vessel, one construction support vessel, and one Remote Operated Vehicle ("ROV") support vessel. In addition, we have contracted with a Norwegian shipyard to build a new IMR vessel. We seek to lease our assets in our Offshore Energy segment on medium to long-term charters. Depending upon the charter, the charterer may assume the operating expense and utilization risk. The AHTS vessel is a 2010-built DP-1, 5,150 bhp vessel used in the offshore oil and gas industry. The AHTS vessel was built by Guangzhou Panyu Lingshan Shipyard Ltd. in China and is designed to provide support services to offshore platforms, rigs and larger construction vessels. The AHTS vessel has accommodation for 30 personnel and is equipped with an advanced firefighting system and rescue boat to provide standby / emergency rescue services and a winch with total bollard pull of 68.5 tons. The AHTS vessel is subject to a 10-year direct finance lease with a local Mexican operator. We own 100% of the AHTS vessel and our finance lease will expire in November 2023. The AHTS vessel is currently unlevered. 

The construction support vessel is a 2014-built subsea construction support vessel for the SURF (subsea, umbilicals, risers, and flowlines), IMR, and Pipelay markets. The construction support vessel was built at Davie Shipyard in Quebec, Canada and is designed to provide a range of services including flexible and small-diameter rigid pipelay, cable lay, saturation diving, ROV support, well intervention, top hole drilling and subsea installation. Our construction support vessel has advanced dynamic positioning (DP-3) systems, a 250-ton subsea crane, a moon pool, 2,000 square meters of open deck space and 100-person accommodation. The construction support vessel finished its most recent charter during November 2015 and we expect to enter into a new charter for the vessel during Q1 2016. The construction support vessel is 50% levered as of December 31, 2015 . 

Our ROV support vessel is a 2011-built DP-2, 6,000 bhp ROV support vessel that is used in the offshore oil and gas industry. The ROV support vessel was built by Jaya Holdings at their yard in Batam, Indonesia and is designed to provide construction support services including ROV support, dive support, accommodation and subsea and platform lifts. The ROV support vessel has accommodation for 120 personnel, a moon pool, a 50-ton crane, and can carry up to three ROVs. As of December 31, 2015, the ROV support vessel was subject to a bareboat charter with a local Malaysian operator, who in turn leased the vessel to major oil companies in that region. On February 16, 2016, we terminated this lease arrangement and are currently actively pursuing a new lessee. We own 85% of the vessel. The ROV support vessel is currently unlevered. 

Our IMR vessel is under construction at the Kleven Shipyard in Norway and is scheduled to be delivered during Q1 2016. The vessel is a DP-2 construction support and IMR vessel with a 150-ton crane, a moon pool, 1,100 square meters of deck space and accommodation for 90 personnel. The vessel will have reduced fuel consumption and lower emissions, and is designed for a broad range of construction support activities including ROV support, subsea installations, well intervention, top-hole drilling and supply and transport duties. We own 50% of the IMR vessel and our planned lessee is a co-owner of the remaining 50%. Upon delivery, we expect the the vessel will enter a bareboat charter. We expect to arrange debt financing for this vessel prior to delivery. 

The chart below describes the assets in our Offshore Energy segment as of December 31, 2015: 

Offshore Energy Assets 

Asset Type 

Year Built 

Description 

Lease Expiration 

Economic Interest (%) 

AHTS Vessel 

Anchor handling tug supply vessel with accommodation for 30 personnel and a total bollard pull of 68.5 tons 

November 2023 

100% 

Construction Support Vessel 

Construction support vessel with 250-ton crane, 2,000 square meter deck space, a moon pool, and accommodation for 100 personnel 

Off-hire 

100% 

ROV Support Vessel 

Construction support vessel with accommodation for 120 personnel, a moon pool, and a 50-ton crane 

April 2019 (1) 

85% 

IMR Vessel 

EstimatedQ1 2016 

IMR vessel with 150-ton crane, 1,100 square meter deck space, a moon pool, accommodation for 90 personnel 

Estimated March 2024 

50% 

(1) On February 16, 2016, the Company terminated its lease arrangement related to its ROV support vessel and is currently actively pursuing a new lessee. 

Intermodal Transport 

We own, either directly or through a joint venture, interests in approximately 138,000 maritime shipping containers and related equipment through three separate portfolios. The majority of these shipping containers are currently leased to operators or other third parties, and as of December 31, 2015 &#32;are 66.5% levered. 

We own a 51% interest in a portfolio of approximately 96,000 shipping containers of various types, including both dry and refrigerated units. Of these, approximately 59,000 are subject to direct finance leases with five separate shipping lines, and the majority of those finance leases contain bargain purchase options at lease expiration. The remaining 37,000 containers in this portfolio are subject to operating leases with a large Asian shipping line with an average remaining lease term of approximately 0.3 years. Across the portfolio of 96,000 containers, the remaining average lease term is approximately one year. 

Our second portfolio is comprised of approximately 39,000 shipping containers that are subject to a direct finance lease with a major Asian shipping line. The containers in this portfolio consist of 20&#8217; Dry, 40&#8217; Dry and 40&#8217; High Cube dry containers (&#8220;HC Dry&#8221;). The containers are subject to a direct finance lease that expires in December 2017, at which point the lessee has an obligation to purchase the containers at a fixed price. On March 9, 2016, the Company consummated the sale of this portfolio. 

Our third portfolio is comprised of approximately 3,000 shipping containers and related equipment that are subject to direct finance leases with a major US-based shipping line. It consists of a mix of intermodal equipment, including 45&#8217; and 53&#8217; Dry Containers, generator sets, and 53&#8217; Chassis. The equipment is subject to direct finance leases that expire in ~0.5-2.5 years, at which point the lessee has an obligation to purchase the containers at a fixed price. 

The chart below describes the assets in our Shipping Containers segment as of December 31, 2015 : 

Shipping Containers Assets 

Number 

Type 

Average Age 

Lease Type 

Customer Mix 

Economic Interest (%) 

Portfolio #1 96,000 

20&#8217; Dry 20&#8217; Reefer 40&#8217; Dry 40&#8217; HC Dry 40&#8217; HC Reefer 45&#8217; Dry 

~8 Years 

Direct Finance Lease/Operating Lease 

6 Customers 

51% 

Portfolio #2 39,000 (1) 

20&#8217; Dry 40&#8217; Dry 40&#8217; HC Dry 

~11 years 

Direct Finance Lease 

1 Customer 

100% 

Portfolio #3 

3,000 

45&#8217; Dry 

53&#8217; Dry 

53&#8217; Chassis 

~7.5 years 

Direct Finance Lease 

1 Customer 

100% 

(1) On March 9, 2016, the Company consummated the sale of Portfolio #2. 

Asset Management 

Our Manager actively manages and monitors our portfolios of assets on an ongoing basis, and in some cases engages third parties to assist with the management of those assets. Invoices from each of our customers are typically issued and collected on a monthly basis. Our Manager frequently reviews the status of all of our assets, and in the case that any are returning from lease or undergoing repair, outlines our options, which may include the re-lease or sale of that asset. In the case of operating infrastructure, our Manager plays a central role in developing and executing operational, finance and business development strategies. On a periodic basis, our Manager discusses the status of our acquired assets with our board of directors. 

In some situations, we may acquire assets through a joint venture entity or own a minority position in an investment entity. In such circumstances, we will seek to protect our interests through appropriate levels of board representation, minority protections and other structural enhancements. 

We and our Manager maintain relationships with operators worldwide and, through these relationships, hold direct conversations as to leasing needs and opportunities. Where helpful, we reach out to third parties who assist in leasing our assets. As an example, we often partner with MRO facilities in the aviation sector to lease these engines and support airlines&#8217; fleet management needs. 

While we expect to hold our assets for extended periods of time, we and our Manager continually review our assets to assess whether we should sell or otherwise monetize them. Aspects that will factor into this process include relevant market conditions, the asset&#8217;s age, lease profile, relative concentration or remaining expected useful life. 

Credit Process 

We and our Manager monitor the credit quality of our various lessees on an ongoing basis. This monitoring includes interacting with our customers regularly to monitor collections, review period financial statements and discuss their operating performance. Most of our lease agreements are written with conditions that require reporting on the part of our lessees, and we actively reach out to our lessees to maintain contact and monitor their liquidity positions. Furthermore, many of our leases and contractual arrangements include credit enhancement elements that provide us with additional collateral or credit support to strengthen our credit position. 

We are subject to concentrations of credit risk with respect to amounts due from customers on our direct finance leases and operating leases. We attempt to limit credit risk by performing ongoing credit evaluations. See &#8220;-Customers.&#8221; 

Customers 

Our customers consist of global operators of transportation and infrastructure networks, including airlines, offshore energy service providers and major shipping lines. We maintain ongoing relationships and discussions with our customers and seek to have consistent dialogue. In addition to helping us monitor the needs and quality of our customers, we believe these relationships help source additional opportunities and gain insight into attractive opportunities in the transportation and infrastructure sector. Given our limited operating history, a substantial portion of our revenue has historically been derived from a small number of customers. For the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014, we earned approximately 21.0% &#32;and 39.0% , respectively, of our revenue from our largest customers. We derive a significant percentage of our revenue within specific sectors from a limited number of customers. However, we do not think that we are dependent upon any particular customer, or that the loss of one or more of them would have a material adverse effect on our business or the relevant segment, because of our ability to release assets at similar terms following the loss of any such customer. See &#8220;Risk Factors-Contractual defaults may adversely affect our business, 

prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by decreasing revenues and increasing storage, positioning, collection, recovery and lost equipment expenses.&#8221; 

Competition 

The business of acquiring, managing and marketing transportation and transportation-related infrastructure assets is highly competitive. Market competition for acquisition opportunities includes traditional transportation and infrastructure companies, commercial and investment banks, as well as a growing number of non-traditional participants, such as hedge funds, private equity funds, and other private investors. 

Additionally, the markets for our products and services are competitive, and we face competition from a number of sources. These competitors include engine and aircraft parts manufacturers, aircraft and aircraft engine lessors, airline and aircraft services and repair companies, aircraft spare parts distributors, offshore services providers, maritime equipment lessors, shipping container lessors, container shipping lines, and other transportation and infrastructure equipment lessors. 

We compete with other market participants on the basis of industry knowledge, availability of capital, and deal structuring experience and flexibility, among other things. We believe our Manager&#8217;s experience in the transportation and the transportation-related infrastructure industry and our access to capital, in addition to our focus on diverse asset classes and customers provides a competitive advantage versus competitors that maintain a single sector focus. 

Environmental Regulations 

We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants to air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and noise and emission levels. Under some environmental laws in the United States and certain other countries, strict liability may be imposed on the owners or operators of assets, which could render us liable for environmental and natural resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and third-party claims for property or natural resource damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations in connection with our or our lessee&#8217;s or charterer&#8217;s current or historical operations. While we typically maintain liability insurance coverage and typically require our lessees to provide us with indemnity against certain losses, the insurance coverage is subject to large deductibles, limits on maximum coverage and significant exclusions and may not be sufficient or available to protect against any or all liabilities and such indemnities may not cover or be sufficient to protect us against losses arising from environmental damage. In addition, changes to environmental standards or regulations in the industries in which we operate could limit the economic life of the assets we acquire or reduce their value, and also require us to make significant additional investments in order to maintain compliance. 

Employees 

Our Manager provides a management team and other professionals who are responsible for implementing our business strategy and performing certain services for us, subject to oversight by our board of directors, and as a result, we have no employees other than 34 individuals employed by Jefferson and 124 individuals employed by CMQR, of which 47 CMQR employees are covered under a collective bargaining agreement that has currently expired and is under negotiation. From time to time, certain of our officers may enter into written agreements with us that memorialize the provision of certain services; these agreements do not provide for the payment of any cash compensation to such officers from us. The employees of our Manager are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement. In addition, our Manager expects to utilize third party contractors to perform services and functions related to the operation and leasing of our assets such as aircraft, jet engines and shipping containers. These functions may include billing, collections, recovery and asset monitoring. 

Insurance 

Our leases generally require that our customers carry physical damage and liability insurance providing primary insurance coverage for loss and damage to our assets as well as for related cargo and third parties while the assets are on lease. In addition, in certain cases, we maintain contingent liability coverage for any claims or losses on our assets while they are on hire or otherwise in the possession of a third-party. Finally, we procure insurance for our assets when they are not on hire or are otherwise under our control. 

Conflicts of Interest 

Although we have established certain policies and procedures designed to mitigate conflicts of interest, there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will be effective in doing so. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest could give rise to investor dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. 

One or more of our officers and directors have responsibilities and commitments to entities other than us. In addition, we do not have a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, securityholders or affiliates from engaging in business activities of the types conducted by us for their own account. However, our code of business conduct and ethics prohibits, subject to the 

terms of our organizational documents, the directors, officers and employees of our Manager from engaging in any transaction that involves an actual conflict of interest with us. In other words, this means that our Manager and its members, managers, officers and employees may pursue acquisition opportunities in transportation and transportation-related infrastructure assets, and that we may acquire or dispose of transportation or transportation-related infrastructure assets in which such persons have a personal interest, subject to pre-approval by the independent members of our board of directors in certain circumstances. In the event of a violation of this code of business of conduct and ethics that does not constitute bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of our Manager&#8217;s duties, neither or Manager nor its members, managers, officers or employees will be liable to us. See &#8220;Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Manager-There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with our Manager.&#8221; 

Our key agreements, including our Management Agreement, the Partnership Agreement, and our operating agreement were negotiated among related parties, and their respective terms, including fees and other amounts payable, may not be as favorable to us as terms negotiated on an arm&#8217;s-length basis with unaffiliated parties. Our independent directors may not vigorously enforce the provisions of our Management Agreement against our Manager. For example, our independent directors may refrain from terminating our Manager because doing so could result in the loss of key personnel. 

We may compete with entities affiliated with our Manager or Fortress for certain target assets. From time to time, affiliates of Fortress may focus on investments in assets with a similar profile as our target assets that we may seek to acquire. These affiliates may have meaningful purchasing capacity, which may change over time depending upon a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, available equity capital and debt financing, market conditions and cash on hand. Fortress has multiple existing and planned funds focused on investing in one or more of the sectors in which we acquire assets, each with significant current or expected capital commitments. We may co-invest with these funds in certain target assets. Fortress funds generally have a fee structure similar to ours, but the fees actually paid will vary depending on the size, terms and performance of each fund. Fortress had approximately $70.5 billion &#32;of assets under management as of December 31, 2015 . 

Our Manager may determine, in its discretion, to make a particular acquisition through an investment vehicle other than us. Investment allocation decisions will reflect a variety of factors, such as a particular vehicle&#8217;s availability of capital (including financing), investment objectives and concentration limits, legal, regulatory, tax and other similar considerations, the source of the opportunity and other factors that the Manager, in its discretion, deems appropriate. Our Manager does not have an obligation to offer us the opportunity to participate in any particular investment, even if it meets our asset acquisition objectives. In addition, employees of Fortress or certain of its affiliates-including personnel providing services to or on behalf of our Manager-may perform services for Fortress affiliates that may acquire or seek to acquire transportation and infrastructure-related assets. 

Geographic Information 

Please refer to Note 15 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a report, by geographic area for each segment, of revenues from our external customers, for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, as well as a report, by geographic area for each segment, of our total property, plant and equipment and equipment held for lease as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. 

Where Readers Can Find Additional Information 

Fortress Transportation and Infrastructure Investors LLC is a Delaware limited liability company. Our principal executive offices are located at 1345 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10105. Fortress Transportation and Infrastructure Investors LLC files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Exchange Act, with the SEC. Readers may read and copy any document that Fortress files at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, U.S.A. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from the SEC&#8217;s internet site at http://www.sec.gov. Copies of these reports, proxy statements and other information can also be inspected at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005, U.S.A. 

Our Internet site is http://www.ftandi.com. We will make available free of charge through our internet site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also posted on our website in the &#8216;&#8216;Investor Center - Corporate Governance&#8217;&#8217; section are charters for the company&#8217;s Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Nominating Committee, as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics for our officers, and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our directors, officers and employees. Information on, or accessible through, our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this report. 

