 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Business Development 

Dala Petroleum Corp. was incorporated as &#147;Light Tech, Inc.&#148; under the laws of the State of Nevada on May 24, 1984. A subsidiary in the name &#147;Westcott Products Corporation&#148; was organized by us under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 24, 1986, for the purpose of changing our name and domicile to the State of Delaware. On June 27, 1986, we merged with the Delaware subsidiary, with the survivor being Westcott Products Corporation, a Delaware corporation. All of our prior operations were conducted through Lee Building Products and T. A. Kilgore &#38; Company, (&#147;Kilgore&#148;), which owned and operated a home center in League City, Texas, about 30 miles southeast of downtown Houston, Texas. During 1990, we ceased all operations, and the secured lenders took possession of all of its assets.

On March 11, 2000, our Board of Directors began the process of re-entering the development stage with the appointment of new officers and directors, and began the process of seeking the acquisition of new business opportunities. These efforts resulted in the completion of the acquisition of Dala Petroleum Corp., a Nevada Corporation (&#147;Dala&#148;), a transaction that is more specifically described below.

On June 2, 2014, Westcott Products Corp., a Delaware corporation (&#147;Westcott&#148;), its newly formed and wholly-owned subsidiary, Dala Acquisition Corp., a Nevada corporation (&#147;Merger Subsidiary&#148;), and Dala Petroleum Corp., a Nevada corporation (&#147;Dala&#148;), executed and delivered an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the &#147;Merger Agreement&#148;) and all required or necessary documentation to complete the merger (collectively, the &#147;Transaction Documents&#148;), whereby Merger Subsidiary merged with and into Dala, and Dala was the surviving company under the merger and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Westcott on the closing of the merger (the &#147;Merger&#148;). Effective June 2, 2014, the respective Boards of Directors of Westcott and Dala, along with Westcott, as the sole stockholder of Merger Subsidiary, and Dala&#146;s sole stockholder Chisholm Partners II, LLC, a Louisiana limited liability company (&#147;Chisholm II&#148;) owning 100% of the outstanding voting securities of Dala approved the Merger by written consent, and the Articles of Merger were filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada on such date, which was the effective date of the Merger. Accordingly, Westcott issued 10,000,000 shares of its common stock in exchange for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Dala, to Dala Petroleum&#146;s sole shareholder. Following the receipt of the 10,000,000 shares, Chisholm II&#146;s managing director approved the transfer of all of the shares to its members (or its members&#146; designees) on a pro rata basis. The transfer of shares to the members of Chisholm II occurred on June 8, 2014.

Several conditions precedent as set forth in the Merger Agreement were completed prior to the Merger. One critical condition precedent set forth in the Merger Agreement is that Westcott would raise no less than $2,000,000 (the minimum Offering) from persons who are &#147;accredited investors&#148; in consideration of the issuance (or the conversion) of a minimum of 2,000 shares up to a maximum of 2,500 shares of its Series A 6% Convertible Preferred Stock at the offering price of $1,000 per Unit. Upon the closing of the Offering, the Company sold 2,025 Units in the Offering, raising $2,025,000. Each Unit sold consists of one share of Series A 6% Convertible Preferred Stock that is convertible at any time at the option of the Holder into common stock at the conversion price of $0.70 per common share based on the total dollar amount invested (subject to adjustment as set forth in the Company&#146;s Series A 6% Convertible Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation that was filed on May 30, 2014) and 1,429 warrants to purchase common shares of the Company at an exercise price of $1.35 within three years of the &#147;Effective Date&#148; as defined in the Stock Purchase Agreement for the Offering. The Effective Date is defined as the earliest date of the following to occur: (a) the initial registration statement required by the Offering Documents has been declared effective by the Commission, (b) all of the underlying shares have been sold pursuant to Rule 144 or may be sold pursuant to Rule 144 without the requirement for the Company to be in compliance with the current public information required under Rule 144 and without volume or manner-of-sale restrictions or (c) following the one year anniversary of the Closing Date provided that a holder of underlying shares is not an Affiliate of the Company, all of the underlying shares may be sold pursuant to an exemption from registration under Section 4(1) of the Securities Act without volume or manner-of-sale restrictions and Company counsel has delivered to such holders a standing written unqualified opinion that re-sales may then be made by such holders of the underlying shares pursuant to such exemption which opinion shall be in form and substance reasonably acceptable to such holders.

On August 29, 2014, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation with the State of Delaware changing the name of the Company to &#147;Dala Petroleum Corp.,&#148; as approved by a majority of the common shareholders and 67% of the preferred shareholders.

Dala has the rights to engage in oil exploration and development on approximately 300 leases in north central Kansas, with total acreage of approximately 80,000 acres (the &#147;Property&#148;). Since the Merger through May 2015, Dala was operating as an early-stage oil exploration company focused on the Property, which has oil potential at depths of less than 6,000 feet.

Dala was assigned the rights to explore the Property from Chisholm Partners II, LLC (&#147;Chisholm II&#148;), an exploration and production company focused on the acquisition of Kansas oil leasehold interests and exploration and development and Dala&#146;s sole shareholder prior to the Merger into the Company. The Company has a Master Service Agreement with Chisholm II that allows it to utilize Chisholm II&#146;s existing technical exploration team to further explore and develop the property but the Company has elected to suspend payments to Chisholm Partners II, LLC given the decline in the market price for oil and to temporarily suspend of the Company&#146;s exploration activities until further decision by the Board of Directors.

Dala has temporarily suspended its exploration program due to the decline in the price of oil and difficult market conditions. Until Summer 2015, when the Company&#146;s operations were suspended, Dala&#146;s operations were focused on shallow oil opportunities. Dala has a ready-to-drill inventory of seismically defined (2-D and 3-D) prospects in and around existing production in central, southern and northwest Kansas. In addition, Dala has leases to approximately 80,000 net acres along a productive trend of fields in central Kansas, which will be explored via conventional seismic evaluation and vertical drilling. These exploration activities can be reactivated if the price of oil increases and recovers to acceptable levels. Most of the prospects are supported by modern seismic data and are a combination of field extensions, step out locations and offsets to existing production. 

During the year ended September 30, 2015 the Company drilled five wells. The wells drilled had no commercial quantities of oil and were plugged and abandoned.

Dala has established a substantial land position over a shallow, conventional oil play in north central Kansas. The "Play" or exploration concept is located across a four county area and is geographically defined by the boundaries of the productive North American Rift System. The land position is concentrated over a lightly explored portion of the Rift, bordered immediately on the south by productive rift-related oil fields, and to the north by significant new discoveries in southeast Nebraska, where productive rates have recently been reported. This Play concept was developed by a team of highly experienced international geologists, geophysicists and land experts, who applied regional geologic theory, proprietary geophysical databases and high resolution seismic.

In addition to the Play, Dala has the option to participate in a drilling program with working interests ranging between 12.5%-25% in order to provide operating cash flows while further validating the thesis of the 80,000 acres. The Company is not considering participation in the drilling any of these prospects at this time due to the Company&#146;s financial situation and the current market price of oil.

Our principal offices are located at 175 South Main Street, Suite 1410, Salt Lake City, Utah. Our telephone number is (801) 303-5721. Our fiscal year-end is September 30.

Except as otherwise indicated, as used throughout the remainder of this annual report, references to &#147;Company,&#148; &#147;Westcott,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; or &#147;our&#148; refer to &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us&#148; and &#147;our&#148; refer to Dala Petroleum Corp., formerly known as Westcott Products Corporation, a Delaware corporation, from and after June 2, 2014, and Dala Petroleum Corp., a Nevada corporation, prior to June 2, 2014 since its inception on January 17, 2014.

Business Strategy 

Our business strategy is to create value for our shareholders by establishing and growing reserves, production and cash flow on a cost-efficient basis. Due to the significant decline in the market price of oil the Company has temporarily suspended all exploration activities. Upon reactivation, key elements of our business strategy will include:

&#183;

Development and exploration of our existing oil and gas leases in the North American Rift System. If we begin the development of our current acreage position in the Property, we will be required to register as a licensed Oil and Gas Operator within the state of Kansas;

&#183;

To selectively participate, on a non-operated basis, in seismically-driven prospects that correspond geologically with our existing footprint within the state of Kansas;

&#183;

Prudent management of our current limited cash resources;

&#183;

To complement our organic growth strategy, we will seek to aggregate any future production in order to accelerate the Company&#146;s production and reserve profile;

&#183;

Retaining qualified personnel to carry out the Company&#146;s growth strategy; and

&#183;

Evaluating potential merger or financing options.

Industry Operating Environment 

The oil and natural gas industry is affected by many factors that we generally cannot control. Government regulations, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy, climate change and the environment, can have a significant impact on operations and profitability. Significant factors that will impact oil prices in the current fiscal year and future periods include: political and social developments in the Middle East; demand in Asian and European markets; and the extent to which members of OPEC and other oil exporting nations manage oil supply through export quotas or lack thereof. Additionally, natural gas prices continue to be under pressure due to concerns over excess supply of natural gas due to the high productivity of emerging shale developments in the United States and continued lower product demand caused by a weakened economy. Natural gas prices are generally determined by North American supply and demand and are also affected by imports of liquefied natural gas. Weather also has a significant impact on demand for natural gas since it is a primary heating source.

Development 

Upon an acceptable recovery in the market price of oil, we will primarily engage in oil and natural gas exploration and production on the Property using a technical exploration team to further explore and develop the Property.

Dala has access to a full team of experienced (major oil company-trained) technical and land personnel to support its operations, which is provided under the suspended Chisholm II Master Service Agreement. The Chisholm II Master Service Agreement has been amended to suspend payments to Chisholm II during the suspension of exploration activities. Dala has an inventory of drill-ready oil prospects. Most of the prospects are supported by modern seismic data and are a combination of field extensions, step out locations and offsets to existing production. During the year ended September 30, 2015 the Company drilled five wells. The wells drilled had no commercial quantities of oil and were plugged and abandoned.

Dala established a substantial land position over a shallow, conventional oil play in north central Kansas. The "Play" or exploration concept is located across a four county area and is geographically defined by the boundaries of the productive North American Rift System. The land position is concentrated over a lightly explored portion of the Rift, bordered immediately on the south by productive rift-related oil fields, and to the north by significant new discoveries in southeast Nebraska, where productive rates have recently been reported. This Play concept was developed by a team of highly experienced international geologists, geophysicists and land experts, who applied regional geologic theory, proprietary geophysical databases and high resolution seismic.

In addition to the Play, Dala has the option to participate in a drilling program with working interests ranging between 12.5%-25% in order to provide operating cash flows while further validating the thesis of the 80,000 acres. The Company is not considering participation in the drilling any of these prospects at this time. 

Competition 

The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we will be competing with numerous other oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Most of these companies have substantially greater resources than we have. Not only do they explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also many carry on midstream and refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. The operations of other companies will be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties. They will also have substantially more resources to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our limited financial or human resources permit.

Our larger or integrated competitors will have the resources to be better able to absorb the burden of existing, and any changes to federal, state, and local laws and regulations more easily than we can, which will adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to discover reserves and acquire additional properties in the future will be dependent upon our ability and resources to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. In addition, we will be at a disadvantage in producing oil and natural gas properties and bidding for exploratory prospects, because we have substantially fewer financial and human resources than other companies in our industry. Should a larger and better-financed company decide to directly compete with us, and be successful in its efforts, our business model and any business operations could be adversely affected.

Marketing and Customers 

The market for oil and natural gas that may be produced from our properties depends on factors beyond our control, including the extent of domestic production and imports of oil and natural gas, the proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities, demand for oil and natural gas, the marketing of competitive fuels and the effects of state and federal regulation. The oil and natural gas industry also competes with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel requirements of industrial, commercial and individual consumers.

The price of crude oil has fallen significantly since mid-year 2014, reflecting robust non-OPEC supply growth led by expanding unconventional production in the United States, weakening growth in emerging markets, and the decision by OPEC to maintain its current production ceiling. The downturn in the price of crude oil has impacted, and, depending upon its duration, will continue to significantly impact the company's operations and ability to raise funds or attract potential partners. The company anticipates that crude oil prices will increase in the future, as continued growth in demand and a slowing in supply growth should bring global markets into balance; however, the timing of any such increases is unknown.

Our oil production, if any, is expected to be sold at prices tied to the spot oil markets. Our natural gas production, if any, is expected to be sold under short-term contracts and priced based on first of the month index prices or on daily spot market prices. We will rely on any operating partners to market and sell our production, where we contract with such operators in drilling prospects. We currently have a suspended Management Services Agreement with Chisholm II and an Option Participation Agreement with Chisholm II.

Principal Agreements Affecting Our Ordinary Business 

We do not own any physical real estate, but, instead, our acreage is comprised of leasehold interests subject to the terms and provisions of lease agreements that provide us the right to explore and develop the Property in specific geographic areas. All lease arrangements that comprise our current acreage positions are established using industry-standard terms that have been established and used in the oil and natural gas industry for many years, and our leases are with the State of Kansas. All of our current leases were assigned to us by Chisholm II, our majority shareholder that obtained the original leasehold interest prior to the assignment.

On June 3, 2014, we entered into a Master Services Agreement with Chisholm. Pursuant to the Master Service Agreement, Chisholm agreed to act as an independent contractor for the Company and provide services and personnel to develop, drill, operate, and maintain oil and gas wells and properties used to produce oil and gas within the State of Kansas for a period of twelve (12) months. This Agreement was currently suspended as of May 1, 2015 but could be reactivated if the market for oil recovers.

We have also entered into an Option Participation Agreement with Chisholm. Pursuant to the Option Participation Agreement, Chisholm granted Dala the option, at Dala&#146;s own election, to participate for up to twenty-five percent (25%) of Chisholm&#146;s share of each drilling operation in search for oil or gas in the State of Kansas undertaken by Chisholm. The Company does not currently have any plans to participate in this Agreement due to its financial condition but may elect to participate in the future.

In general, our current lease agreements have a term of five years from the effective date with an option to extend for an additional three years. The effective dates of the leases vary lease to lease. The oldest effective date is October 3, 2011, and the most recent effective date is March 13, 2013. There are over 300 lease agreements that have been assigned to Dala by Chisholm II. Royalty rates will be negotiated on a case-by-case basis consistent with industry standard pricing. Once a well is drilled and production established, the leased acreage in the applicable spacing unit is customarily considered developed acreage and is held by production. Other locations within the drilling unit created for a well may also be drilled at any time with no time limit as long as the lease is held by production. We do not believe lease expiration issues will materially affect our current leasehold acreage position.

Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to various rules, regulations and limitations impacting the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry as a whole.

Regulation of Oil and Natural Gas Production 

Oil and natural gas exploration, production and related operations, when developed, are subject to extensive rules and regulations promulgated by federal, state, tribal and local authorities and agencies. For example, Kansas requires permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations and imposes other requirements relating to the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. Kansas may also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells, and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. Failure to comply with any such rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry will most likely increase our cost of doing business and may affect our profitability. Although we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, because such rules and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such laws. Significant expenditures may be required to comply with governmental laws and regulations and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Environmental Matters 

Our operations and properties are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment, and relating to safety and health. The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation generally is toward stricter standards, and this trend will likely continue. These laws and regulations may:

&#183;

require the acquisition of a permit or other authorization before construction or drilling commences and for certain other activities;

&#183;

limit or prohibit construction, drilling and other activities on certain lands lying within wilderness and other protected areas; and

&#183;

impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from such operations.

The permits required for our operations may be subject to revocation, modification and renewal by issuing authorities. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce their regulations, and violations are subject to fines or injunctions, or both. In the opinion of management, we anticipate that we will be in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations, and we have no material commitments for capital expenditures to comply with existing environmental requirements. Nevertheless, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or in interpretations thereof could have a significant impact on us, as well as the oil and natural gas industry in general.

The Comprehensive Environmental, Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (&#147;CERCLA&#148;) and comparable state statutes impose strict, joint and several liability on owners and operators of sites and on persons who have disposed of or have arranged for the disposal of &#147;hazardous substances&#148; found at such sites. It is not uncommon for the neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (&#147;RCRA&#148;) and comparable state statutes govern the disposal of &#147;solid waste&#148; and &#147;hazardous waste&#148; and authorize the imposition of substantial fines and penalties for noncompliance. Although CERCLA currently excludes petroleum from its definition of &#147;hazardous substance,&#148; state laws affecting our operations may impose clean-up liability relating to petroleum and petroleum related products. In addition, although RCRA classifies certain oil field wastes as &#147;non-hazardous,&#148; such exploration and production wastes could be reclassified as hazardous wastes thereby making such wastes subject to more stringent handling and disposal requirements.

The Endangered Species Act (&#147;ESA&#148;) seeks to ensure that activities do not jeopardize endangered or threatened animal, fish and plant species, nor destroy or modify the critical habitat of such species. Under ESA, exploration and production operations, as well as actions by federal agencies, may not significantly impair or jeopardize the species or its habitat. ESA provides for criminal penalties for willful violations of ESA. Other statutes that provide protection to animal and plant species and that may apply to our operations include, but are not necessarily limited to, the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, the Fishery Conservation and Management Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and the National Historic Preservation Act. Although we believe that our operations will be in substantial compliance with such statutes, any change in 

these statutes or any reclassification of a species as endangered could subject us (directly or indirectly through any operating partners) to significant expenses to modify our operations or could force discontinuation of certain operations altogether.

On April 17, 2012, EPA finalized rules proposed on July 28, 2011, which establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. Specifically, the EPA&#146;s rule package includes New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds (&#147;VOCs&#148;) and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities. The rules establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from compressors, dehydrators, storage tanks and other production equipment. In addition, the rules revise leak detection requirements for natural gas processing plants. These rules may require a number of modifications to our planned operations and those of any of our potential third-party operating partners, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions from compressors. Although we cannot predict the cost to comply with these new requirements at this point, compliance with these new rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business.

These new regulations and proposals and any other new regulations requiring the installation of more sophisticated pollution control equipment could have a material adverse impact on our business model and business, results of operations and financial condition.

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, or the Clean Water Act (the &#147;CWA&#148;), imposes restrictions and controls on the discharge of produced waters and other pollutants into navigable waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants into state and federal waters and to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. The CWA and certain state regulations prohibit the discharge of produced water, sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings, sediment and certain other substances related to the oil and gas industry into certain coastal and offshore waters without an individual or general National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System discharge permit. In addition, the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of storm water runoff from certain types of facilities. Some states also maintain groundwater protection programs that require permits for discharges or operations that may impact groundwater conditions. Costs may be associated with the treatment of wastewater and/or developing and implementing storm water pollution prevention plans. The CWA and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of oil and other pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges, for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release.

The underground injection of oil and natural gas wastes are regulated by the Underground Injection Control program authorized by the Safe Drinking Water Act. The primary objective of injection well operating requirements is to ensure the mechanical integrity of the injection apparatus and to prevent migration of fluids from the injection zone into underground sources of drinking water. All of leased acreage in which we have interest may be required to be developed from unconventional sources that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate gas production. Legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of &#147;underground injection&#148; and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, were proposed in recent sessions of Congress. The U.S. Congress continues to consider legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to subject hydraulic fracturing operations to regulation under the Act&#146;s Underground Injection Control Program to require disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process.

Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways. The federal government is currently undertaking several studies of hydraulic fracturing&#146;s potential impact. Several states, including Kansas, where our current leased properties are located, have also proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. We cannot predict whether any other legislation will ever be enacted and if so, what its provisions would be. If additional levels of regulation and permits were required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level, it could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that would materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.

The National Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA, establishes a national environmental policy and goals for the protection, maintenance and enhancement of the environment and provides a process for implementing these goals within federal agencies. A major federal agency action having the potential to significantly impact the environment requires review under NEPA. Many of our planned activities and those of any of our potential third-party operating partners are covered under categorical exclusions which results in a shorter NEPA review process. The Council on Environmental Quality has announced an intention to reinvigorate NEPA reviews and on March 12, 2012, issued final guidance that may result in longer review processes that could lead to delays and increased costs that could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.

Climate Change 

Significant studies and research have been devoted to climate change and global warming, and climate change has developed into a major political issue in the United States and globally. Certain research suggests that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to climate change and pose a threat to the environment. Recent scientific research and political debate has focused in part on carbon dioxide and methane incidental to oil and natural gas exploration and production.

In the United States, legislative and regulatory initiatives are underway to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would control GHG emissions through a &#147;cap and trade&#148; program and several states have already implemented programs to reduce GHG emissions. The U.S. Supreme Court determined that GHG emissions fall within the federal Clean Air Act, or the CAA, definition of an &#147;air pollutant,&#148; and in response the EPA promulgated an endangerment finding paving the way for regulation of GHG emissions under the CAA. In 2010, the EPA issued a final rule, known as the &#147;Tailoring Rule,&#148; that makes certain large stationary sources and modification projects subject to permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act.

In addition, in September 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHGs from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions in 2010. On November 30, 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding its existing GHG emissions reporting to include onshore and offshore oil and natural gas systems beginning in 2012. We and any of our potential third party operating partners are required to report their greenhouse gas emissions under these rules. Because regulation of GHG emissions is relatively new, further regulatory, legislative and judicial developments are likely to occur. Such developments may affect how these GHG initiatives will impact us. Moreover, while the U.S. Supreme Court held in its June 2011 decision American Electric Power Co. v. Connecticut that, with respect to claims concerning GHG emissions, the federal common law of nuisance was displaced by the federal Clean Air Act, the Court left open the question of whether tort claims against sources of GHG emissions alleging property damage may proceed under state common law. There thus remains some litigation risk for such claims. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the regulation of and other risks associated with GHG emissions, we cannot predict the financial impact of related developments on us.

Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for our products by making our products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy. To the extent that our products are competing with higher greenhouse gas emitting energy sources, our products would become more desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. To the extent that our products are competing with lower greenhouse gas emitting energy sources such as solar and wind, our products would become less desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations.

The majority of scientific studies on climate change suggest that stronger storms may occur in the future in the areas where we operate, although the scientific studies are not unanimous. Although operators may take steps to mitigate physical risks from storms, no assurance can be given that future storms will not have a material adverse effect on our business.

Existing and Probable Government Regulation to Our Current and Intended Business 

Smaller Reporting Company 

We are subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;), and we are subject to the disclosure requirements of Regulation S-K of the SEC, as a &#147;smaller reporting company.&#148; That designation will relieve us of some of the informational requirements of Regulation S-K.

Sarbanes/Oxley Act 

We are also subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes/Oxley Act created a strong and independent accounting oversight board to oversee the conduct of auditors of public companies and strengthens auditor independence. It also requires steps to enhance the direct responsibility of senior members of management for financial reporting and for the quality of financial disclosures made by public companies; establishes clear statutory rules to limit, and to expose to public view, possible conflicts of interest affecting securities analysts; creates guidelines for audit committee members&#146; appointment, compensation and oversight of the work of public companies&#146; auditors; management assessment of our internal controls; auditor attestation to management&#146;s conclusions about internal controls; prohibits certain insider trading during pension fund blackout periods; requires companies and auditors to evaluate internal controls and procedures; and establishes a federal crime of securities fraud, among other provisions. Compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes/Oxley Act could substantially increase our legal and accounting costs.

Exchange Act Reporting Requirements 

Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act requires all companies with securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC regarding proxy solicitations, as outlined in Regulation 14A. Matters submitted to our stockholders at a special or annual meeting thereof or pursuant to a written consent will require us to provide our stockholders with the information outlined in Schedules 14A or 14C of Regulation 14; preliminary copies of this information must be submitted to the SEC at least 10 days prior to the date that definitive copies of this information are forwarded to our stockholders.

We are required to file annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q with the Securities Exchange Commission on a regular basis, and are required to timely disclose certain material events (e.g., changes in corporate control; acquisitions or dispositions of a significant amount of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; and bankruptcy) in a Current Report on Form 8-K.

Number of Total Employees and Number of Full-Time Employees 

We have no full-time employees. We also currently engage independent contractors in the areas of accounting, legal and auditing services, corporate finance, as well as marketing and business development. The remuneration paid to our officers and directors is more completely described elsewhere in this Annual report in the &#147;Executive Compensation&#148; section.

Subsidiaries 

We have one wholly-owned subsidiary; Dala Petroleum Corp., a Nevada corporation, is our sole operating subsidiary.

Competitive Business Conditions and Smaller Reporting Company&#146;s Competitive Position in the Industry and Methods of Competition 

The oil and natural gas industry is very competitive and the Company competes with numerous other oil and gas exploration and production companies. Numerous independent oil and gas companies, oil and gas syndicates and major oil and gas companies actively seek out and bid for oil and gas properties as well as for the services of third party providers, such as drilling companies, upon which we rely. A substantial number of our competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial and personnel resources than we do, and have demonstrated the ability to operate through industry cycles.

Some of our competitors not only explore for, produce and market petroleum and natural gas, but also carry out refining operations and market the resultant products on a worldwide basis which may provide them with additional sources of capital. Larger and better capitalized competitors may be in a position to outbid us for particular prospect rights. These competitors may also be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling. Larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position.

Patents, Trademarks, Intellectual Property 

None; not applicable.

Research and Development Costs During the Last Two Fiscal Years 

We are not engaged in any research or development and have not devoted any efforts to research and development since inception of the Company earlier this fiscal year.

Government Regulations 

The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental, occupational safety and health laws and regulations within the U.S. The Company strives to ensure full compliance with all regulatory requirements and is unaware of any material instances of noncompliance. In the U.S., the Company must comply with laws and regulations which include, among others:

&#183;

the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act;

&#183;

the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act;

&#183;

the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; and

&#183;

the Toxic Substances Control Act.

Laws and regulations strictly govern the manufacture, storage, handling, transportation, use and sale of chemical products. The Company evaluates the environmental impact of its actions and attempts to quantify the cost of remediating contaminated property in order to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements and identify and avoid potential liability.

The Company may become involved in environmental litigation and claims, including remediation of properties owned or operated. No environmental litigation or claims are currently being litigated. The Company does not expect that costs related to known remediation requirements will have an adverse effect on the Company&#146;s consolidated financial position or results of operations.

Additional Information 

You may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may also find all of the reports or registration statements that we have previously filed electronically with the SEC at its Internet site at www.sec.gov . Please call the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 for further information on this or other Public Reference Rooms. Our SEC reports and registration statements are also available from commercial document retrieval services, such as CCH Washington Service Bureau, whose telephone number is 1-800-955-5219.

