 Item 1. Business 

&#160; 

The Company 

We are an independent, growth-oriented exploration and production company, headquartered in Austin, Texas, with additional technical and specialized resources located in Midland, Texas. 

We were organized under the laws of the State of Nevada on January 7, 1982. We are authorized to issue 47,500,000 shares of common stock par value $0.001 per share. On January 12, 2012 we implemented a 50:1 reverse stock split of our common stock. All information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflects the effect of the reverse stock split. 

&#160; 

Prior to May 3, 2006 we operated under the name Victory Capital Holdings Corporation among other corporate names. 

&#160; 

The terms "Victory", "Company", "we", our", and "us" refer to Victory Energy Corporation and our consolidated subsidiaries unless the context suggests otherwise. 

Our Relationship with Aurora Energy Partners 

We are the managing partner of Aurora Energy Partners, a Texas general partnership that we refer to as Aurora, and we hold a 50% partnership interest in Aurora. Aurora is our consolidated subsidiary for financial statement purposes. The Second Amended Partnership Agreement of Aurora, which we refer to as the Aurora Partnership Agreement, gives us control over Aurora. Article XI of the Aurora Partnership Agreement cannot be modified without the approval of all (100%) of the partners of Aurora; therefore, we cannot be removed as a managing member of Aurora regardless of the percentage partnership interest held by the other partners of Aurora. Accordingly, consolidation is appropriate for all reporting periods. We currently conduct all of our oil and natural gas operations through, and hold all of our oil and natural gas assets through, Aurora. Aurora is the record title holder to substantially all of the oil and natural gas properties, wells and reserves referred to in this annual report. Through our partnership interest in Aurora, we are the beneficial owner of 50% of the oil and gas properties, wells and reserves held of record by Aurora. 

&#160; 

Operational Overview and Strategy 

&#160; 

We are independent growth-oriented oil and gas exploration and production company based in Austin, Texas, with additional resources located in Midland, Texas. The company has historically been focused on the acquisition and development of unconventional resource play opportunities in the Permian Basin, the Eagle Ford shale of South Texas and other strategically important areas that offer predictable economic outcomes and long-lived reserve characteristics, however we will also pursue opportunistic acquisition in other areas of the country. The current company asset portfolio includes both vertical and horizontal wells in prominent formations such as the Eagle Ford, Austin Chalk, Woodbine, Spraberry, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry, Mississippian, Cline, Fusselman and Ellenberger. We are focused on creating shareholder value by rapidly growing conventional oil and liquids-rich natural gas reserves and cash-flow via continued low-risk vertical well development on existing properties, as well as through the acquisition of new economically strong producing properties. This focus on returns is achieved by targeting predictable conventional and resources plays that provide favorable operating environments and lifting costs. 

We have carefully assembled a management team with more than 130 years of direct and relevant oil and gas experience, who also hold extensive industry relationships to help grow the company. We also utilize a team of third-party professionals on an as-needed basis. This team includes geologists for prospect evaluation and assessment and reservoir engineering resources for the analysis of current and new properties. Reserve reporting is performed by a third-party engineer located in Midland, Texas. Each independent operator utilized by the company also has their own array of experts tailored for the specific formations and well completion techniques of each property the Company holds an interest in. We strategically utilize both internal capabilities and strategic industry relationships to acquire non-operated, high-grade working interest positions in predictable, low-to-moderate risk oil and gas prospects. To help grow the company and lower field level operating expenses, we also plan to build-out an internal operating team in the near-future. 

Our common stock is quoted under the ticker symbol VYEY on the OTCQB, operated by OTC Markets Group. 

We are one of two partners in Aurora which was established in January 2008. The second partner in Aurora is the Navitus Energy Group, which we refer to as Navitus. Navitus is also a Texas general partnership. Navitus and our company work together to 

increase proved reserves and the valuation of Aurora. We plan to eventually consolidate 100% of the ownership of Aurora under Victory and thereafter move to a national securities exchange such as the NYSE or NASDAQ. 

Navitus Partners, LLC, a partner in the Navitus general partnership, is currently seeking to raise up to $15 million of capital for contribution through Navitus to the Aurora partnership . The net proceeds of this offeringwill generally be used to fund Aurora's operations, as well as for the potential acquisition and development of targeted oil and gas opportunities . The investors in this offering will receive a 10% preferred return through their indirect interest in the Navitus partnership for five yearsand one warrant to purchase one share of Victory common stock for every dollar invested and additional benefits. Under the terms of the offering Navitus has the right to contribute up to $15 million into Aurora and Victory is obligated to match the capital contribution amount of Navitus resulting from the offering. Victory is also required to match previous contributions made by Navitus. Under the agreement, separation of the partners is not mandatory and Victory may raise funds from other sources. Substantially all producing oil and natural gas assets are held in the Aurora partnership during the five year term of the Aurora Partnership Agreement which ends in October 2017. As of December 31, 2015, Navitus has contributed $7.3 million into Aurora. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 37 gross wells on production. Our portfolio of producing assets now includes the following properties: the Eagle Ford Property, the Fairway property, the Bootleg Canyon Ellenberger Field, the Adams-Baggett Gas Field, the Morgan property, the Uno-Mas property and the Clear Water Wolfberry resource property. Proved commercial accumulations of hydrocarbons now occur in multiple horizons, at depths ranging from 4,700 to 13,100 feet, with the majority of proved reserves being located on properties in the Permian Basin of Texas and New Mexico. 

As we continue to evaluate available locations on our current properties and add properties that are accessible to us through our established deal flow pipeline, we anticipate an accelerated pace toward oil-weighted production and the addition of new reserves. Due to the precipitous downturn in oil prices in the later part of 2014 continuing through 2015, we are concentrating our efforts on attractive acquisitions of proved producing properties. 

Our capital and exploration expenditures totaled $1,058,704 &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2015, we had $ 2,384 &#32;of cash on hand with $ 680,000 &#32;outstanding under our credit facility with Texas Capital Bank, National Association. Cash on hand is generally kept low because of our ability to acquire capital funding, when needed via our Aurora partner Navitus Energy Group. The credit facility was classified as currently payable due to the failure to meet the current ratio covenant set forth in the credit facility at December 31, 2015. We are currently in default under our credit facility with Texas Capital Bank and have entered into a forbearance agreement with Texas Capital Bank. See Risk Factors - "We have defaulted under our Credit Agreement with Texas Capital Bank, which we refer to as our Lender. Although our Lender has agreed to forbear all existing events of default, if we do not cure our defaults or otherwise satisfy our obligations under the Credit Agreement, the Lender could foreclose resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to operate and our stock could lose significant or all of its value." 

Navitus contributed $2,917,000 in cash to Aurora for the year ended December 31, 2015, and $ 1,140,000 &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2014. Distributions to Navitus were deferred for the year ended December 31, 2015, while distributions to Navitus totaled $647,421 for the year ended December 31, 2014. 

Terminated Business Combination with Lucas 

On February 4, 2015, Victory entered into a letter of intent relating to a proposed business combination with Lucas Energy, Inc., which we refer to as Lucas. Thereafter, Victory, Lucas and certain other parties entered into certain collaboration and loan and funding agreements, which we refer to as the Lucas Transaction Documents, but the parties never entered into a definitive merger agreement. Pursuant to the Lucas Transaction Documents we loaned Lucas a total of $600,000 through May 11, 2015, the date that we terminated the letter of intent and Lucas Transaction Documents. 

Merger and merger termination related direct costs total $1,344,812 and are included in general and administrative expenses for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015. 

On June 24, 2015, we entered into (1) a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release with Lucas, which we refer to as the Lucas Settlement Agreement, (2) a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release with Louise H. Rogers, which we refer to as the Rogers Settlement Agreement, and (3) a Compromise Settlement Agreement and Mutual General Release, effective as of June 25, 2015 with Earthstone Operating, LLC, Earthstone Energy, Inc., Oak Valley Resources, LLC, Oak Valley Operating LLC and Sabine River Energy, LLC, Lucas, AEP, and Aurora, which we refer to as the Earthstone Settlement Agreement. 

Lucas Settlement Agreement 

Pursuant to the Lucas Settlement Agreement, we agreed with Lucas to terminate any and all obligations between the parties arising under the letter of intent and Lucas Transaction Documents. We further agreed that we would retain ownership and control over five Penn Virginia well-bores previously assigned by Lucas to us, which we refer to as the Penn Virginia Well-Bores, as well as the obligations to pay the expenses associated with such Penn Virginia Well-Bores effective after August 1, 2014. Under the terms of the Lucas Settlement Agreement, Lucas agreed to assign to us all of Lucas&#8217; rights in a certain oil and gas property located in the same field as the Penn Virginia Well-Bores, which we refer to as the &#8220;Additional Penn Virginia Property", including the rights to all revenues from all wells on some properties. Lucas acknowledged the principal amount of $600,000 previously advanced to Lucas by us and agreed that we have no further obligations to advance any additional funds to Lucas pursuant to the terms of the Loan Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Lucas Settlement Agreement, Lucas agreed to issue 1,101,729 shares (44,069 post-split declared by Lucas as of July 15, 2015) of its common stock, which we refer to as the Settlement Shares to us in full consideration of the $600,000 owed to us. The Settlement Shares and an assignment of the Additional Penn Virginia Property were held in escrow pending the payment by us of amounts owed to Rogers under the Rogers Settlement (as described below). We charged the $600,000 to general and administrative expenses as a cost of the merger termination. 

Rogers Settlement Agreement 

Pursuant to the Rogers Settlement Agreement, we agreed with Rogers, among other things, (i) to terminate the contingent promissory note in the principal amount of $250,000 payable to Rogers that was issued by Victory in connection with the entry by Lucas and Victory into the Lucas Transaction Documents, (ii) that we would pay Rogers, on or before July 15, 2015, $253,750, and (iii) that Rogers&#8217; legal counsel will hold the assignment of the Additional Penn Virginia Property and the Settlement Shares in escrow until such time as the payment of $253,750 is made by us to the Rogers. 

Amendment to Rogers Settlement Agreement 

On July 16, 2015, we entered into an Amendment to the Rogers Settlement Agreement. Pursuant to the amendment, we agreed with Rogers that the amount to be paid by us to Rogers under the Rogers Settlement Agreement is $258,125, instead of $253,750. The Amendment further specified that if we failed to make the payment of $258,125 on or before July 15, 2015, we would be in default under the Rogers Settlement Agreement and default interest on the amount due would begin to accrue at a per diem rate of $129.0625. Additionally, we acknowledged in the Amendment our obligation to pay Rogers&#8217; attorney&#8217;s fees in the amount of $22,500. As of the date of this annual report, we have not made any payments to Rogers pursuant to the Rogers Settlement Agreement. 

As described above, Rogers&#8217; legal counsel held the assignment to us of Lucas' rights to the Additional Penn Virginia Property and the Settlement Shares in escrow pending our payment of all amounts due under the Rogers Settlement Agreement. The amount due under the amendment totaled $285,546 through August 17, 2015. We failed to make the required payment to Rogers by August 27, 2015, and have still not made all the required payments. As a result, the Additional Penn Virginia Property was returned to Lucas on or about September 3, 2015. The full amount due to Rogers including accrued interest at December 31, 2015 totals $300,432. 

Earthstone Settlement Agreement 

Pursuant to the terms of the Earthstone Settlement Agreement, we assigned to Earthstone certain oil and gas interests in well site locations which were previously transferred to us by Lucas in February 2015. We agreed with Earthstone to release each other from any and all claims one party may have against the other prior to the effective date of the Earthstone Settlement Agreement, except for claims arising under the Earthstone Settlement Agreement. Lucas and Earthstone similarly agreed to release each other from such claims pursuant to the terms of the Earthstone Settlement Agreement. 

&#32;&#32;We charged the $195,928 payment made to Earthstone in February 2015, to general and administrative expenses as a cost of the merger termination. 

Distribution Methods 

&#160; 

Each of our fields that produce oil distributes the oil through one purchaser for each field. There is significant demand for oil and there are several companies in our operating areas that purchase oil from small oil producers. 

&#160; 

Each of our fields that produce natural gas distributes all of the natural gas that it produces through one purchaser for each field. We have distribution agreements with these natural gas purchasers that provide us a tap into a distribution line of a natural gas distribution company. We are to be paid for our natural gas at either a market price at the beginning of the month or market price at the time of delivery, less any transportation cost charged by the natural gas distribution company. 

Competition 

&#160; 

We encounter competition from other oil and natural gas companies in all areas of our operations. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies that have been engaged in the oil and natural gas business for much longer than we have and possess substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we do. We compete by leveraging our experience and hands on knowledge of the marketplace of available properties for sale and/or development. 

&#160; 

Source and Availability of Raw Materials 

&#160; 

We have no significant raw materials. However, we make use of numerous oil field service companies in the drilling and work over of wells. We currently operate in areas where there are numerous oil field service and drilling companies that are available to us. 

&#160; 

Marketing Arrangements 

&#160; 

There is a ready market for the sale of oil and gas. Each of our fields currently sells all of its oil and gas production on the spot market basis. 

&#160; 

Federal Regulations 

&#160; 

Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations, and other legal requirements enacted by governmental authorities, including regulations related to the operation of wells, pricing and terms for access to pipeline transportation, and environmental matters. Compliance with these provisions has not had any material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, net earnings or competitive position. However, the legislative and regulatory burden placed on the industry raises our cost of doing business and therefore could impact profitability. Please refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors. 

&#160; 

Regulation of Sale and Transportation of Natural Gas 

&#160; 

The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938, which we refer to as the NGA, and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. These statutes are administered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which we refer to as FERC. Effective January 1, 1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas prices for all &#8220;first sales&#8221; of natural gas, which includes all sales by us of our own production. All other sales are subject to a blanket sales certificate under the NGA, which has flexible terms and conditions. Consequently, all of our sales of natural gas currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions. Our jurisdictional sales, however, are subject to the future possibility of greater federal oversight, including the possibility that the FERC might prospectively impose more restrictive conditions on such sales. Conversely, sales of crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids by us are made at unregulated market prices. 

&#160; 

Thus, all of our sales of natural gas may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions. Sales of natural gas are affected by availability, terms and cost of pipeline transportation. Since 1985, FERC has implemented regulations intended to make natural gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open access, non-discriminatory basis. We cannot predict what further action FERC will take on these matters. Some of FERC&#8217;s more recent proposals may, however, adversely affect the availability and reliability of interruptible transportation service on interstate pipelines. We do not believe that we will be affected by any action taken materially differently than other natural gas producers, gatherers and marketers with which we compete. 

&#160; 

Our natural gas sales are generally made at the prevailing market price at the time of sale. Therefore, even though we sell significant volumes to major purchasers, we believe that other purchasers would be willing to buy our natural gas at comparable market prices. 

&#160; 

Natural gas continues to supply a significant portion of North America&#8217;s energy needs and we believe the importance of natural gas in meeting this energy need will continue. The impact of the ongoing economic downturn on natural gas supply and demand fundamentals has resulted in extremely volatile natural gas prices, which is expected to continue. 

On August 8, 2005, the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which we refer to as the 2005 EPA, was signed into law. This comprehensive act contains many provisions that will encourage oil and natural gas exploration and development in the United States. The 2005 EPA directs FERC and other federal agencies to issue regulations that will further the goals set out in the 2005 EPA. The 2005 EPA amends the NGA to make it unlawful for &#8220;any entity,&#8221; including otherwise non-jurisdictional producers such as us, to use 

any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by FERC, in contravention of rules prescribed by FERC. On January 20, 2006, FERC issued rules implementing this provision. The rules make it unlawful in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. The new anti-manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non-jurisdictional sales or gathering, but does apply to activities of otherwise non-jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted &#8220;in connection with&#8221; gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction. It therefore reflects a significant expansion of FERC&#8217;s enforcement authority. We do not believe that we are affected any differently than other producers of natural gas. 

In 2007, FERC issued a final rule on annual natural gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing, which we refer to as Order 704. Under Order 704, wholesale buyers and sellers of more than 2.2 million MBtu of physical natural gas in the previous calendar year, including interstate and intrastate natural gas pipelines, natural gas gatherers, natural gas processors and natural gas marketers are now required to report, on May 1 of each year, beginning in 2009, aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to the formation of price indices. It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order 704. The monitoring and reporting required by these rules have increased our general and administrative expenses. We do not anticipate that we will be affected any differently than other producers of natural gas. 

Regulation of the Sale and Transportation of Oil 

Our sales of crude oil, condensate and NGL are not currently regulated, and are subject only to applicable contract provisions negotiated by us and our counterparties. In a number of instances, however, the ability to transport and sell such products is dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to FERC&#8217;s jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act, which we refer to as the ICA. In other instances, the ability to transport and sell such products is dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to regulation by state regulatory bodies under state statutes. 

The regulation of pipelines that transport oil, condensate and NGL is generally less restrictive than FERC&#8217;s regulation of natural gas pipelines under the NGA. Regulated pipelines that transport crude oil, condensate and NGL are subject to common carrier obligations that generally ensure non-discriminatory access. With respect to interstate pipeline transportation subject to regulation of FERC under the ICA, rates generally must be cost-based, although market-based rates or negotiated settlement rates are permitted in certain circumstances. Pursuant to FERC Order No. 561, pipeline rates are subject to an indexing methodology. Under this indexing methodology, pipeline rates are subject to changes in the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods, minus 1%. A pipeline can seek to increase its rates above index levels provided that the pipeline can establish that there is a substantial divergence between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rate resulting from application of the index. A pipeline can seek to charge market based rates if it establishes that it lacks significant market power. In addition, a pipeline can establish rates pursuant to settlement if agreed upon by all current shippers. A pipeline can seek to establish initial rates for new services through a cost-of-service proceeding, a market-based rate proceeding, or through an agreement between the pipeline and at least one shipper not affiliated with the pipeline. 

Federal, State or American Indian Leases . In the event we conduct operations on federal, state or American Indian onshore oil and natural gas leases, such operations must comply with numerous regulatory restrictions, including various nondiscrimination statutes, certain on-site security regulations and must also obtain permits issued by the Bureau of Land Management, which we refer to as the BLM, or other appropriate federal, tribal or state agencies. 

The Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, which we refer to as the Mineral Act, prohibits direct or indirect ownership of any interest in federal onshore oil and natural gas leases by a foreign citizen of a country that denies &#8220;similar or like privileges&#8221; to citizens of the United States. Such restrictions on citizens of a &#8220;non-reciprocal&#8221; country include ownership or holding or controlling stock in a corporation that holds a federal onshore oil and natural gas lease. If this restriction is violated, the corporation&#8217;s lease can be canceled in a proceeding instituted by the United States Attorney General. Although the regulations of the BLM (which administers the Mineral Act) provide for agency designations of non-reciprocal countries, there are presently no such designations in effect. We own interests in numerous federal onshore oil and natural gas leases. It is possible that holders of our equity interests may be citizens of foreign countries, which at some time in the future might be determined to be non-reciprocal under the Mineral Act. If any of our equity holders is deemed to be a citizen of a non-reciprocal country, then our interests in federal onshore oil and natural gas leases may be canceled. Any such cancellation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 

State Regulations 

Most states regulate the production and sale of oil and natural gas, including: 

&#8226; 

requirements for obtaining drilling permits; 

&#8226; 

the method of developing new fields; 

&#8226; 

the spacing and operation of wells; 

&#8226; 

the prevention of waste of oil and gas resources; and 

&#8226; 

the plugging and abandonment of wells. 

The rate of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production allowable from both oil and natural gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis or both. 

We may enter into agreements relating to the construction or operation of a pipeline system for the transportation of natural gas. To the extent that such natural gas is produced, transported and consumed wholly within one state, such operations may, in certain instances, be subject to the jurisdiction of such state&#8217;s administrative authority charged with the responsibility of regulating intrastate pipelines. In such event, the rates that we could charge for natural gas, the transportation of natural gas, and the construction and operation of such pipeline would be subject to the rules and regulations governing such matters, if any, of such administrative authority. 

&#160; 

Environmental, Health and Safety Regulation 

&#160; 

General. &#32;Our activities are subject to existing federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental quality and pollution control. Although no assurances can be made, we believe that, absent the occurrence of an extraordinary event, compliance with existing federal, state and local laws, regulations and rules regulating the release of materials in the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of human health, safety and the environment will not have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position with respect to our existing assets and operations. We cannot predict what effect additional regulation or legislation, enforcement policies, and claims for damages to property, employees, other persons and the environment resulting from our operations could have on our activities. 

Our activities with respect to exploration and production of oil and natural gas, including the drilling of wells, are subject to stringent environmental regulation by state and federal authorities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, which we refer to as the US EPA. Such regulations can increase the cost of our activities. Although we believe that compliance with environmental regulations will not have a material adverse effect on us, risks of substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in oil and natural gas production operations, and there can be no assurance that significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred. Moreover it is possible that other developments, such as spills or other unanticipated releases, stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from oil and natural gas production, would result in substantial costs and liabilities to us. 

Solid and Hazardous Waste . We own or lease numerous properties that have been used for production of oil and natural gas for many years. Although we have utilized operating and disposal practices standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other solid wastes may have been disposed of or released on, under, or from these properties. In addition, many of these properties have been operated by third parties that controlled the treatment of hydrocarbons and solid wastes and the manner in which such substances may have been disposed or released. State and federal laws applicable to oil and natural gas wastes and properties have gradually become stricter over time. Under these laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes (including wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators) or property contamination (including groundwater contamination by prior owners or operators) or to perform remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination. 

We generate wastes, including hazardous wastes, which are subject to regulation under the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which we refer to as the RCRA, and state statutes. The USEPA has limited the disposal options for certain hazardous wastes. Furthermore, it is possible that certain wastes generated by our oil and natural gas operations that are currently exempt from regulation as &#8220;hazardous wastes&#8221; may in the future become regulated as &#8220;hazardous wastes&#8221; under RCRA or other applicable statutes, and therefore may become subject to more rigorous and costly management and disposal requirements. 

Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials, which we refer to as NORM, are radioactive materials which precipitate on production equipment or area soils during oil and natural gas extraction or processing. NORM wastes are regulated under the RCRA framework, although such wastes may qualify for the oil and gas hazardous waste exclusion. Primary responsibility for NORM regulation has been a state function. Standards have been developed for worker protection; treatment, storage and disposal of NORM waste; 

management of waste piles, containers and tanks; and limitations upon the release of NORM-contaminated land for unrestricted use. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with all applicable NORM standards. 

&#160; 

Superfund. &#32;The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which we refer to as CERCLA, also known as the &#8220;Superfund&#8221; law, imposes joint and several liabilities, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct of certain persons with respect to the release or threatened release of a &#8220;hazardous substance&#8221; into the environment. These persons include the current or former owner or and operator of the site where the release occurred and anyone who and persons that disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance to the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, damages to natural resources and the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. 

We own and lease, and may in the future operate, numerous properties that have been used for oil and natural gas exploitation and production for many years. Hazardous substances may have been released on, at or under the properties owned, leased or operated by us, or on, at or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of our properties have been or are operated by a site. CERCLA also authorizes the USEPA and, in some cases, third parties or by previous owners or operators whose handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances were not under our control. These properties and the substances disposed or released on, at or under them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. In certain circumstances, we could be responsible for the removal of previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. In addition, federal and state trustees can also seek substantial compensation for damages to natural resources resulting from spills or releases. 

Water discharges. &#32;The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, which we refer to as the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws, impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including oil and other substances generated by our operations, into waters of the United States or state waters. Under these laws, the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or an analogous state agency. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations. 

The Safe Drinking Water Act, which we refer to as SDWA, and analogous state laws impose requirements relating to underground injection activities. Under these laws, the EPA and state environmental agencies have adopted regulations relating to permitting, testing, monitoring, record keeping and reporting of injection well activities, as well as prohibitions against the migration of injected fluids into underground sources of drinking water. 

Air emissions. &#32;The Federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. In addition, EPA and certain states have developed and continue to develop stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the Federal Clean Air Act and analogous state laws and regulations. 

The Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change became effective in February 2005. Under the Protocol, participating nations are required to implement programs to reduce emissions of certain gases, generally referred to as greenhouse gases that are suspected of contributing to global warming. The United States is not currently a participant in the Protocol, and Congress has not acted upon recent proposed legislation directed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. However, there has been support in various regions of the country for legislation that requires reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, and some states have already adopted legislation addressing greenhouse gas emissions from various sources, primarily power plants. The oil and natural gas industry is a direct source of certain greenhouse gas emissions, namely carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on such emissions could impact our future operations. 

National Environmental Policy Act. &#32;Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act, which we refer to as NEPA. NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of Interior, to evaluate major agency to take actions that have the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. All exploration and production activities on federal lands require governmental permits that are subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects on federal lands in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible persons 

the costs of such action. Certain state statutes impose similar liability. Neither we nor, to our knowledge, our predecessors have been designated as a potentially responsible party by the USEPA under CERCLA or by any state under a similar state law. 

Health safety and disclosure regulation . Under CERCLA, the term &#8220;hazardous substance&#8221; does not include &#8220;petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction thereof,&#8221; unless specifically listed or designated and the term does not include natural gas, NGL, liquefied natural gas, or synthetic gas usable for fuel. While this &#8220;petroleum exclusion&#8221; lessens the significance of CERCLA to our operations, we may generate waste that may fall within CERCLA's definition of a &#8220;hazardous substance&#8221; in the course of our ordinary operations. We also currently own or lease properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. Although we and, to our knowledge, our predecessors have used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, &#8220;hazardous substances&#8221; may have been disposed or released on, under or from the properties owned or leased by us or on, under or from other locations where these wastes have been taken for disposal. At this time, we do not believe that we have any liability associated with any Superfund site, and we have not been notified of any claim, liability or damages under CERCLA. 

Oil Pollution Act. &#32;The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which we refer to as the OPA, and regulations thereunder impose a variety of regulations on &#8220;responsible parties&#8221; related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills in certain United States waters. A &#8220;responsible party&#8221; includes the owner or operator of a facility or vessel, or the lessee or permittee of the area in which an offshore facility is located. The OPA assigns liability to each responsible party for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages. While liability limits apply in some circumstances, a party cannot take advantage of liability limits if a spill was caused by gross negligence or willful misconduct or resulted from violation of federal safety, construction or operating regulations. If a party fails to report a spill or to cooperate fully in the cleanup, liability limits likewise do not apply. Few defenses exist to the liability imposed by the OPA. 

The OPA currently establishes a liability limit for onshore facilities of $350 million and for offshore facilities of all removal costs plus $75 million, and lesser limits for some vessels depending upon their size. The regulations promulgated under OPA impose proof of financial responsibility requirements that can be satisfied through insurance, guarantee, indemnity, surety bond, letter of credit, qualification as a self-insurer, or a combination thereof. The amount of financial responsibility required depends upon a variety of factors including the type of facility or vessel, its size, storage capacity, oil throughput, proximity to sensitive areas, type of oil handled, history of discharges and other factors. We carry insurance coverage to meet these obligations, which we believe is customary for comparable companies in our industry. A failure to comply with OPA's requirements or inadequate cooperation during a spill response action may subject a responsible party to civil or criminal enforcement actions. 

Clean Water Act. &#32;The Clean Water Act, which we refer to as the CWA, regulates the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States and adjoining shorelines, including wetlands, and requires a permit for the discharge of pollutants, including petroleum and dredged or fill materials, into such waters and wetlands. Certain state regulations and the general permits issued under the federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program prohibit the discharge of produced waters and sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings and certain other substances related to the oil and natural gas industry operations into certain coastal and offshore waters. Further, the USEPA has adopted regulations requiring certain facilities that store or otherwise handle oil to prepare and implement Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure Plans and Facility Response Plans relating to the possible discharge of oil to surface waters. We are required to prepare and comply with such plans and to obtain and comply with discharge permits. The CWA also prohibits spills of oil and hazardous substances to waters of the United States in excess of levels set by regulations and imposes liability in the event of a spill. State laws further provide civil and criminal penalties and liabilities for spills to both surface and groundwater and require permits that set limits on discharges to such waters. We believe we are in substantial compliance with these requirements and that any noncompliance would not have a material adverse effect on us. 

Safe Drinking Water Act . The underground injection of oil and natural gas wastes is regulated by the Underground Injection Control (&#8220;UIC&#8221;) Program, authorized by the federal SDWA. The primary objective of injection well operating requirements is to ensure the mechanical integrity of the injection apparatus and to prevent migration of fluids from the injection zone into underground sources of drinking water. In Oklahoma, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas, no underground injection may take place except as authorized by permit or rule. We currently own and operate various underground injection wells. Failure to comply with our permits could subject us to civil and/or criminal enforcement. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of applicable state underground injection control programs and our permits and authorizations. 

Moreover, our exploration and production activities may involve the use of hydraulic fracturing techniques to stimulate wells and maximize natural gas production. Citing concerns over the potential for hydraulic fracturing to impact drinking water, human health and the environment, and in response to a congressional directive, the USEPA has commissioned a study to identify potential risks associated with hydraulic fracturing. The USEPA published a progress report on this study in December 2012 and a final draft report will be delivered in 2014. Additionally, the BLM proposed to regulate the use of hydraulic fracturing on federal and tribal lands, but following extensive public comment on the proposals, announced it would issue an improved proposal before 

finalizing new rules. The revised proposal is expected to address disclosure of fluids used in the fracturing process, integrity of well construction, and the management and disposal of wastewater that flows back from the drilling process. Some states now regulate utilization of hydraulic fracturing and others are in the process of developing, or are considering development of, such rules. Depending on the results of the USEPA study and other developments related to the impact of hydraulic fracturing, our drilling activities could be subjected to new or enhanced federal, state and/or local regulatory requirements governing hydraulic fracturing. 

Air Emissions . Our operations are subject to local, state and federal regulations for the control of emissions from sources of air pollution. The USEPA has promulgated new rules to address air emissions from the oil and natural gas industry which, among other things, would require installation of equipment to capture certain gases released from new or refitted hydraulically fractured natural gas wells by January 1, 2015. Other new rules, many effective in 2012, impose stricter standards on emissions associated with gas production, storage and transport. The proposals would revise New Source Performance Standards for volatile organic compounds and sulfur dioxide, impose controls on toxics emitted at oil and natural gas wells and their associated production facilities, and limit fugitive emissions from the production, storage and transport equipment. In addition, states impose requirements to address emissions from certain production and associated facilities. We have complied and will continue to comply with these regulations as applicable to our operations. Due to the uncertainties surrounding proposed regulations, we are unable to predict the financial impact going forward. 

Administrative enforcement actions for failure to comply strictly with air regulations or permits may be resolved by payment of monetary fines and/or correction of any identified deficiencies. Alternatively, civil and criminal liability can be imposed for non-compliance. Any such action could require us to forgo construction or operation of certain air emission sources. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with air pollution control requirements and that, if a particular permit application were denied, we would have enough permitted or permittable capacity to continue our operations without a material adverse effect on any particular producing field. 

Climate Change . According to certain scientific studies, emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and other gases commonly known as greenhouse gases, which we refer to as GHG, may be contributing to global warming of the earth's atmosphere and to global climate change. In response to the scientific studies, legislative and regulatory initiatives have been underway to limit GHG emissions. The U.S. Supreme Court determined that GHG emissions fall within the federal Clean Air Act, which we refer to as CAA, definition of an &#8220;air pollutant&#8221;, and in response the USEPA promulgated an endangerment finding paving the way for regulation of GHG emissions under the CAA. The USEPA has also promulgated rules requiring large sources to report their GHG emissions. Sources subject to these reporting requirements include on- and offshore petroleum and natural gas production and onshore natural gas processing and distribution facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year in aggregate emissions from all site sources. We are not subject to GHG reporting requirements. In addition, the USEPA promulgated rules that significantly increase the GHG emission threshold that would identify major stationary sources of GHG subject to CAA permitting programs. As currently written and based on current operations, we are not subject to federal GHG permitting requirements. Regulation of GHG emissions is new and highly controversial, and further regulatory, legislative and judicial developments are likely to occur. Such developments may affect how these GHG initiatives will impact us. Further, apart from these developments, recent judicial decisions that have not precluded certain state tort claims alleging property damage to proceed against GHG emissions sources may increase our litigation risk for such claims. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the regulation of and other risks associated with GHG emissions, we cannot predict the financial impact of related developments on us. 

OSHA . We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, which we refer to as OSHA, and comparable state statutes. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know standards, the USEPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of the federal Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act and similar state statutes require that we use to organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials stored, used or produced in our operations. Certain of this information must be provided to employees, state and local governmental authorities and local citizens. 

We expect to incur capital and other expenditures related to environmental compliance. Although we believe that our compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, we cannot assure you that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative impact on our financial position or results of operation. 

Employees 

&#160; 

We have four full-time employees as of December 31, 2015. We believe that our relationships with our employees are satisfactory. We utilize the services of independent contractors to perform various daily operational and administrative duties. 

&#160; 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge through our &#8220;Investor Center &#8211; SEC Filings&#8221; section of our webs-site at www.vyey.com our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act, and the amendments to such filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after each are electronically filed with, or furnished to the SEC. 

Glossary of Certain Industry Terms 

The definitions set forth below shall apply to the indicated terms as used throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Bbl. &#32;One barrel (of oil or natural gas liquids). 

BOE . One barrel of oil equivalent. A Boe is determined using the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to one Bbl of oil, condensate or natural gas liquids, which approximates the relative energy content of oil, condensate and natural gas liquids as compared to natural gas. Despite holding this ratio constant at six Mcf to one Bbl, prices have historically often been higher or substantially higher for oil than natural gas on an energy equivalent basis, although there have been periods in which they have been lower or substantially lower. 

Completion . Installation of permanent equipment for production of oil or gas, or, in the case of a dry well, to reporting to the appropriate authority that the well has been abandoned. 

Developed acreage. &#32;The number of acres which are allocated or held by producing wells or wells capable of production. 

Development well. &#32;A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. 

Dry hole; dry well. &#32;A well found to be incapable of economically producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well. 

Exploratory well. &#32;A well drilled to find a new field or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir. Generally, an exploratory well is any well that is not a development well, an extension well, a service well, or a stratigraphic test well as those items are defined in Regulation S-X. 

Gross acres or gross wells. &#32;The total acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working interest is owned. 

Liquids. &#32;Describes oil, condensate, and natural gas liquids. 

&#160; 

MBbls. &#32;Thousands of barrels of oil or natural gas liquids. 

MBoe . Million barrels of oil equivalent. 

Mcf. &#32;Thousand cubic feet (of natural gas). 

MMcf. &#32;Million cubic feet. 

Net acres or net wells. &#32;The sum of the fractional working interest owned in gross acres or gross wells expressed in whole numbers. 

NGL. &#32;Natural gas liquids. 

Present value or PV10% or &#8220;SEC PV10%.&#8221; &#32;When used with respect to oil and gas reserves, present value or PV10% or SEC PV10% means the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of net proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development and abandonment costs, using prices and costs under the SEC guideline at the balance sheet date, without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service, accretion, and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion, and amortization, discounted using monthly end-of-period discounting at a nominal discount rate of 10% per annum. 

Productive wells. &#32;Producing wells and wells that are capable of production in sufficient quantities to justify completion, including injection wells, salt water disposal wells, service wells, and wells that are shut-in. 

Proved developed reserves. &#32;Estimated proved reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. 

Proved reserves. &#32;Those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible&#8212;from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations&#8212;prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. 

Proved undeveloped reserves. &#32;Estimated proved reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required. 

Undeveloped acreage. &#32;Acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains estimated proved reserves. 

Working Interest or WI. &#32;An operating interest which gives the owner the right to drill, produce, and conduct operating activities on the property and a share of production. 

