 Item 1. Business This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as &#147;may&#148;, &#147;should&#148;, &#147;expects&#148;, &#147;plans&#148;, &#147;anticipates&#148;, &#147;believes&#148;, &#147;estimates&#148;, &#147;predicts&#148;, &#147;potential&#148; or &#147;continue&#148; or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the risks in the section entitled &#147;Risk Factors&#148;, that may cause our or our industry&#146;s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. 

Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. 

Our financial statements are stated in United States Dollars (US$) and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 

In this annual report, unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars and all references to &#147;common shares&#148; refer to the common shares in our capital stock. 

As used in this current report and unless otherwise indicated, the terms "we", "us" and "our" mean TransAKT Ltd., a Nevada corporation, and our wholly owned subsidiary, TransAKT Bio Agritech Ltd.in Hong Kong (S.A.R), unless otherwise indicated.

General Overview 

Our company was incorporated in the Province of British Columbia on December 10, 1996 as Green Point Resources Inc. On October 18, 2000, we changed our name to Wildcard Wireless Solutions Inc. On June 30, 2001, we filed Articles of Continuance in the Province of Alberta and became an Alberta corporation. On that same day, we conducted an amalgamation with Wildcard Communications Canada Inc., an Alberta corporation, our wholly-owned subsidiary, wherein Wildcard Communications Canada was merged into Wildcard Wireless Solutions Inc. On June 20, 2003, we changed our name to TransAKT Corp. We changed our name from TransAKT Corp. to TransAKT Ltd. on July 12, 2006. Effective December 2, 2011, following approval by our shareholders on November 17, 2011, we re-domesticated our company from the Province of Alberta, Canada and became a Nevada corporation. 

We have operated principally as a research and development company since our inception. Initial seed capital has been directed toward areas of product research and development, patent filings and administration. We initially focused on the research, design, development and manufacturing of mobile payment terminals. However, the sale of these payment terminals reached its end-of-life due to changes in cellular phone regulations and limited acceptance in the marketplace.

In October 2004, we purchased the existing business and certain assets of IP Mental Inc., a Taiwan-based Voice over Internet Protocol (&#147;VoIP&#148;) hardware and software provider. On November 15, 2006, we acquired Taiwan Halee International Co. Ltd. (&#147;HTT&#148;), a Taiwan-based leading designer, manufacturer and distributor of telecommunications equipment, including specialized VoIP-compatible phone systems. These acquisitions were intended to enable us to remain competitive in the marketplace by engaging in the design, development, manufacturing and sale of telecommunications equipment, including VoIP compatible telephone systems and multi-line cordless telephone systems. 

On November 15, 2006, we acquired HTT, for the sum of USD$5,000,000. The purchase price was paid by the delivery to the shareholders of HTT of: (i) USD$200,000 in cash; (ii) USD$300,000 in a promissory note from us due in cash six months after closing; (iii) 50,000,000 of our common voting shares, with a deemed value of USD$0.09 per share; and (iv) 5,000,000 of our common voting shares issued to our president and chief executive officer, Mr. James Wu, as performance-based compensation. We have mainly financed our operations through the use of debt and the issuance of equity in private placements. In October 2006, we repaid a loan that we had taken against inventory produced to fund our first commercial run of our payment terminals. We settled the loan for USD$90,000 using funds raised from the private placement of our shares. We continue to finance our operations through debt or equity financing and intend to do so until our sales are sufficient to fund our operations, 

On August 12, 2010, we filed a Form S-4 Registration Statement in connection with the continuation of our company from Alberta to Nevada. We registered 102,645,120 shares of common stock of TransAKT Ltd. (Nevada) which were issued to the shareholders of TransAKT Ltd. (Alberta) on a one-for-one basis to the number of shares held by them.

Effective June 25, 2012, the Nevada Secretary of State accepted for filing of a certificate of amendment, wherein, we amended our articles of incorporation to increase the authorized number of shares of our common stock from 300,000,000 to 700,000,000 shares of common stock, par value of $0.001 per share. Our preferred stock remains unchanged.

On May 3, 2012, we entered into an Asset Purchase and Sale Agreement with Vegfab Agricultural Technology Co. Ltd. (&#147;Vegfab&#148;), a Taiwanese corporation, pursuant to which we intended to acquire the material assets of Vegfab. Vegfab is in the business of manufacturing innovative indoor agricultural equipment used to grow a large variety of vegetables and fruit using simulated sunlight from LED lamps in a proprietary hydroponic system. Vegfab&#146;s product line includes systems for commercial production and a home growing system which allows families to grow safe and clean fruit and vegetables in their own homes. Prior to completion of the transaction we and Vegfab elected instead to proceed by way of a share purchase and, effective July 16, 2012, we acquired all outstanding securities of Vegfab. In consideration of the Vegfab securities, we had paid $1,000,000 in cash and issued 150,000,000 shares of our common stock to the shareholders of Vegfab which constituted approximately 37.2% of our common stock at the time of closing. As a result of the transaction Vegfab became our wholly owned subsidiary and primary business unit. Vegfab has since become engaged in the operation of a plant factory in Taiwan for the production of pesticide-free vegetables. 

Previously, we entered into a performance compensation agreement dated June 15, 2006 with James Wu, our president and chief executive officer, pursuant to which our company was required to pay Mr. Wu share compensation of 10% of the value of any venture acquisition that Mr. Wu secured for our company. As a result, in July 2012, we issued to Mr. Wu 18,333,333 shares of our company&#146;s common stock with respect to the acquisition of Vegfab. 

On January 4, 2013, we entered into a share purchase and sale agreement with Mr. Pan Yen Chu pursuant to which we sold to Mr. Pan 100% of all issued and outstanding securities in our wholly owned subsidiary HTT. In consideration of the sale of HTT, Mr. Pan has transferred to our company 45,000,000 previously issued common voting shares of our company with a deemed value of $0.04 per share or $1.8 million in the aggregate. The transfer of common shares was completed on January 7, 2013. In connection with the sale HTT, the 45,000,000 common shares of our company received as consideration will be returned to treasury. The 45,000,000 shares constitute approximately 11.5% of our company&#146;s currently issued and outstanding common stock. 

On October 30, 2013, Million Talented Ltd., a related party 50% owned by the Company&#146;s president and director, contributed $516 (equals to HKD 4,000) to obtain 40% ownership of TransAKT Bio Agritech Ltd., formerly named as TransAKT (H.K) Ltd., (&#147;TransAKT H.K.&#148;). TransAKT H.K. was incorporated in Hong Kong on November 20, 2007. It had no operation until 2013. TransAKT H.K.'s primary business is conducting research and development on new agricultural technology relating to the Company&#146;s business. On May 6, 2015, the Company acquired the remaining 40% of the TransAKT H.K. from Million Talented Ltd. As such, The Company wholly owned its subsidiary of TransAKT BIO Agritech Ltd. And it becomes our primary business unit.

On June 30, 2015, our wholly owned subsidiary, TransAKT Taiwan Ltd., entered into a Share Transfer Agreement among Vegfab Agricultural Technology Co. Ltd. and a third party pursuant to which the third party acquired 100% of of Vegfab Agricultural Technology Co. Ltd. in consideration of $100,000. Vegfab Agricultural Technology Co. Ltd. was the sole material asset of TransAKT Taiwan Ltd. and its parent company (and subsidiary of the Company), TransAKT Holdings Ltd., a Turks and Caicos company. Subsequent to the sale of Vegfab Agricultural Technology Co. Ltd., pursuant to a Share Purchase Agreement dated June 30, 2015 with the Company&#146;s former President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, the Company sold TransAKT Holdings Ltd. (and its subsidiary, TransAKT Taiwan Ltd.) to the former (non-affiliated) officer and director in consideration of $100,000. All intercompany debts between TransAKT Holdings Ltd. and the formerly affiliated companies were cancelled as a result of the transaction.

Overview of our Operations 

We began operations in 1997 and commercialized our first product line of wireless point-of-sale (&#147;WPOS&#148;) terminals in April 2003. With the use of cellular phones, these terminals allow merchants to accept payments anywhere, anytime. However, our WPOS terminals were discontinued due to changes in cellular phone regulations and limited acceptance in the marketplace. In October 2004, through the acquisition of the business and certain assets of IP Mental Inc., we entered the VoIP business. On November 15, 2006, we acquired Taiwan Halee International Co. Ltd. (&#147;HTT&#148;), a Taiwan-based leading designer, manufacturer and distributor of telecommunications equipment, including specialized VoIP-compatible phone systems. These acquisitions were intended to enable us to remain competitive in the VoIP marketplace by engaging in the design, development, manufacturing and sale of telecommunications equipment, including VoIP compatible telephone systems and multi-line cordless telephone systems. 

Effective July 16, 2012, we acquired all outstanding securities of Vegfab Agricultural Technology Co. Ltd. (&#147;Vegfab&#148;), a Taiwanese corporation, With the acquisition of Vegfab we entered the business of manufacturing agricultural equipment used to grow a large variety of vegetables and fruit using simulated sunlight from LED lamps in a proprietary hydroponic system. Vegfab&#146;s product line includes systems for commercial production and a home growing system which allows families to grow safe and clean fruit and vegetables in their own homes. Vegfab subsequently became engaged in the operation of a plant factory in Taiwan for the production of pesticide-free vegetables. 

Concurrently with our acquisition of Vegfab, our management began planning our exit from the VoIP telecommunications business owing to diminishing growth opportunities for our Company in that industry. Subsequently, on January 4, 2013, we entered into a share purchase and sale agreement with Mr. Pan Yen Chu pursuant to which we sold to Mr. Pan 100% of all issued and outstanding securities in our wholly owned subsidiary HTT in consideration for the cancellation and return to treasury of 45,000,000 previously issued common voting shares of our company with a deemed value of $0.04 per share or $1.8 million in the aggregate. The transfer of common shares was completed on January 7, 2013. The 45,000,000 shares constitute approximately 11.5% of our company&#146;s currently issued and outstanding common stock.

As a result of our sale of HTT, Vegfab Agricultural Technology Co. Ltd. became our primary business unit. However, due to recurring losses from operations and in order to conserve operating resources, our management decided to sell the Vegfab on June 30, 2015.

Subsequent to our sale of Vegfab, we continue to be engaged in the sale and distribution of indoor agricultural equipment, including lighting, irrigation and hydroponic growing systems. We purchase inventory from third party manufacturers and re-sell equipment to various indoor agricultural operators located in Asia. Our primary markets are Taiwain, Hong Kong, Mainland China, and Singapore.

We sustained operating losses of $302,934 and $7,089,023 during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and incurred an accumulated deficit of $21,830,086 and $21,514,222 as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. In addition, we expect to incur an operating loss in 2016.

Historically, our officers and shareholders have advanced funds to our Company for working capital purposes. We have not entered into any agreement on the repayment terms for these advances. In 2013, the Company advanced funds bearing interest rate of 8% per annum from a shareholder in an aggregate amount of HKD28,780,933, or equivalent to $969,630. The Company has repaid both principal and interest during the same year. The interest expense of $60,765 was recorded under other expense from continuing operations before income taxes. In 2015, the company advanced funds from its officer and shareholder for working capital purpose. The company has not entered into any agreement on the repayment terms for these advances. As of December 31, 2015, there were $191,000 advances outstanding.

About Our Products 

We supply indoor agricultural equipment to commercial producers of fruits and vegetables. Our products are focused on fully enclosed greenhouses which rely on artificially controlled ambient conditions as temperature, humidity, nutrition and lighting. Products include complete growing systems consisting of proprietary simulated sunlight LED boards, growing racks in various configurations for commercial and residential applications, environment control and plant nutrition control components, portable work tables and ladders, fruit and vegetable seeds and nutrition products, and safe, clean, ready to eat vegetables. 

Principal Products and Markets 

Food prices in Taiwan have risen to such an extent that it is now economical to cultivate plants in under-used residential space (such as garages or basements) or to convert underutilized urban or suburban real estate into vegetable farms or so-called &#147;plant factories&#148;. Urban greenhouse agriculture also offers the potential for greater yield and land efficiencies when compared to traditional farming because greenhouses may be stacked to maximize strata-space. Other recognized advantages of greenhouse plant cultivation include lower water consumption, diminished reliance on pest control measures, lower transport costs due to proximity to consumers, and scalability to accommodate available space. Compared to traditional greenhouses, the technology we sell allows for the creation of highly controlled environments where resources that fuel plant growth can be utilized more efficiently. &#147; 

Despite all these advantages, this new way of farming is developing slowly and sporadically, on a small scale, due to higher initial equipment investment. Other concerns include higher energy costs, inadequately developed cultivation technology, a limited range of crops, and blander-tasting vegetables than those grown by more traditional methods. Despite these drawbacks, demand for quality, pesticide-free and accessible produce has already led to the establishment of plant factories in Japan, mainland China and Taiwan. In Taiwan, where Vour operations are based and targeted, the Industrial Technology Research Institute has formed the Plant Factory Industry Development Association (TPFIDA) an industrial and academic association to develop the plant factories and indoor agriculture industry in Taiwan. Among the founding members of TPFIDA are EPISTAR Corporation, Everlight Electronics, Taiwan Fertilizer Co., Ltd., National Pingtung University of Science and Technology, and National Taiwan University. TPFIDA aims to promote cross industry collaboration platforms to build comprehensive supply chain in Taiwan for the plant factory industry.

Manufacturing 

It is not our intention to engage in the capital and management intensive endeavor of manufacturing our own products. We instead outsource our manufacturing and have spent considerable time identifying a stable of suitable engineering and manufacturing firms with proven track records. Our products are currently manufactured exclusively in Taiwan and China where intense competition among manufacturers provides a readily available supply of cost-effective, quality manufacturing options. In order to take advantage of the ample supply of manufacturing choices available to us in Taiwan and China, we have not entered into any formal or long-term agreements with any manufacturer for the fabrication of our products. Instead, by selecting manufacturers on an as needed basis, we are better able to take advantage of competitive pricing, ensure quality control, and maintain appropriate inventory supply levels. We do not rely on any particular manufacturer for any of our products.

Seasonality 

Our products can be used all year round and are not affected by seasonal trends. 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

All raw materials for our products are sourced from China and Taiwan. The computer components used in our products can be subject to high price volatility and to the risk of obsolescence. In order to control component costs and the risk of their obsolescence, we contract with a manufacturer at a set price for the building of our products over a number of terminals. The manufacturer becomes responsible for making sure that enough components are in stock and, if components become unavailable, to quickly implement minor product changes to allow for components to be replaced. This process is conducted for all manufacturing of our products.

Marketing Channels 

For greenhouse products, we aim to align ourselves with industrial appliance retailers, home improvement and home and garden retailers, property developers, architects, and home improvement professionals in order to capitalize on all possible markets and existing distribution infrastructure. Our primary markets are Taiwain, Hong Kong, Mainland China, and Singapore.

Competition 

Innovation in the indoor agriculture market is primarily focused on combining different technologies in new ways. Our management believes that our wall lamps and plant growth chamber circulation devices are examples of such innovation. Our research and development team is focused on creating similarly innovative products.

Nevertheless, our industry is undergoing a period of rapid innovation and growth, and there exists a vast number of companies which pre-date our company and which have greater financial resources and experience in our industry. In addition, the rapid expansion of the indoor agriculture industry means that our competitors are difficult to identify and assess. Nevertheless, we estimate that our current share of the indoor agriculture market is negligible, whether in our domestic market of Taiwan, or elsewhere. In order to promote our financial stability, we do not rely or intend to rely on a single revenue base for revenue generation, and will continue to develop both the agricultural technologies wing and the produce manufacturing units of our business. We also have kept our marketing, allowances or rebates to a minimum. Our management believes that these factors will allow us to effectively compete in the industry and minimize our costs, thereby allowing us to focus on intellectual property development and the construction of new plant manufacturing facilities. Our direct competitors in the Taiwan and Chinese markets include: 

&#160; &#149; ArchEnergy Technology: ArchEnergy Technology Holdings Group Ltd., held by precision mold parts maker Gallant Precision Machining Co., Ltd., makes such greenhouses with energy-efficient solar panels, supplying LED grow boxes for households and greenhouses for farms. The company has also begun operating greenhouse farms to cultivate profitable Chinese herbs and flowers. 

&#160; &#160; 

&#160; &#149; Liladien Industrial: Founded in 1998 to make bathtubs, Liladien Industrial Co., Ltd. integrated ultramicro gas bubble aeration technology for Jacuzzis with LED to produce &#147;aqua-cultural containers&#148; in 2008, its first step into the greenhouse industry. The company's aqua-cultural equipment comes in potted plant types for educational purpose, cabinet type for households, and greenhouses for mass production. &#147; 

&#160; &#160; 

&#160; &#149; Nano Bio Light Technology : Nano Bio Light Technology Co., Ltd. has worked with local academic institutes for over 10 years to research LED applications for horticulture. The company's LED-lit horticultural equipment comes in types for research, households, store demonstrations, condo blocks, and mass production. 

Intellectual Property 

We hold common law trademark rights and copyright in our corporate name and related logos and trademarks. However, we have not filed for the registration of our trademarks or copyrights in any jurisdiction.

Research and Development 

No significant research and development expenses were incurred in 2015 or 2014. Any future research and development undertakings will be subject to the availability of sufficient capital.

Employees 

We have 3 full time employees in Hong Kong working in various administrative and operations related capacities. These include management, accounting, product marketing, information technology, and customer service, amongst others. Our payroll costs were approximately $119,658 and $968,918 for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We estimate that our payroll costs for fiscal 2016 will be approximately $135,000 based on our current business plan. 

Subsidiaries 

We have one wholly owned subsidiary, TransAKT (BVI) Ltd. Which holds 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of TransAKT Bio Agritech Ltd., its primary business is conducting research and development on new agricultural technology and marketing the products for the Company. Other than holding the shares of TransAKT Bio Agritech Ltd., TransAKT (BVI) Ltd. is non-active. 

Legislation and Government Regulation 

Our business is subject to a broad range of municipal, provincial and state regulation governing all aspects of our business and day to day operations.

We are not aware of any material violations of environmental permits, licenses or approvals that have been issued with respect to our operations. We expect to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to our business, and at this time, we do not anticipate incurring any material capital expenditures to comply with any environmental regulations or other requirements. 

While our intended projects and business activities do not currently violate any laws, any regulatory changes that impose additional restrictions or requirements on us or on our potential customers could adversely affect us by increasing our operating costs or decreasing demand for our products or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

