 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We are a global software company that simplifies the development, deployment and management of business applications on premise or in the cloud, on any platform or device, to any data source, with enhanced performance, minimal IT complexity and low total cost of ownership. Our comprehensive portfolio of products provides leading solutions for rapid application development, broad data integration and efficient data analysis. Our solutions are used across a variety of industries. 

Our products are generally sold as perpetual licenses, but certain products also use term licensing models and our cloud-based offerings use a subscription based model. More than half of our worldwide license revenue is realized through relationships with indirect channel partners, principally application partners and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Application partners are independent software vendors (ISVs) that develop and market applications using our technology and resell our products in conjunction with sales of their own products that incorporate our technology. OEMs are companies that embed our products into their own software products or devices. 

We operate in North America and Latin America (the Americas); Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and the Asia Pacific region, through local subsidiaries as well as independent distributors. 

Fiscal Year 2015 Highlights 

Telerik Acquisition 

In December 2014, we acquired Telerik AD (Telerik), a leading provider of application development tools. Telerik enables its 1.7 million strong developer community to create compelling user experiences across cloud, web, mobile and desktop applications. Through this acquisition, we now provide comprehensive cloud and on-premise platform offerings that enable developers to rapidly create beautiful applications, driven by data for any web, desktop or mobile platform. 

Organizational Restructuring 

In July 2015, Jerry Rulli, President of the OpenEdge Business Unit, became our Chief Operating Officer. In October 2015, we made changes to our operations to enhance integration and collaboration across our product divisions in order to address expanding market opportunities around customer experiences and to further advance our growth strategy. The organizational changes were designed to align our company&#8217;s operations around a cohesive, audience-centered approach and a strategic product management organization. 

As part of these organizational changes, we eliminated the role of Business Unit Presidents. In place of the Business Unit Presidents, we unified our product management and product marketing functions under a Chief Product Officer and named Michael Benedict, previously President of the Data Connectivity and Integration Business Segment, as Chief Product Officer. As Chief Product Officer, Benedict is responsible for product marketing and product management across our Application Development and Deployment, Data Connectivity and Integration, and OpenEdge Business Segments. The Chief Product Office works with product teams across our company to define our product roadmap, establish go-to-market initiatives and ensure seamless integration across our product portfolio toward delivering an optimal, cohesive customer experience. We 

retained our business unit focus within the Chief Product Officer organization, with dedicated product teams for each business segment, each under the leadership of a general manager reporting directly to Benedict. 

In order to ensure tighter integration between the company&#8217;s product management, marketing and development functions, we also realigned corporate marketing and engineering and development to report to Rulli. Our sales resources report directly into the company&#8217;s geographic regions under Rulli, while retaining the dedicated business segment sales teams for each of the products. 

Share Repurchase Authorization &#32; 

In fiscal year 2015, we repurchased and retired 1.3 million shares of common stock for $32.9 million under our 2014 share repurchase program, leaving $14.5 million remaining under this program. In September 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a new $100.0 million share repurchase program, which increased the total authorization to $114.5 million. 

New Credit Facility 

In December 2014, we entered into a new $300 million term and revolving credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and a syndicate of other lenders. This new credit facility replaced our prior $150 million revolving credit facility. We used the $150 million term loan to finance a portion of the Telerik acquisition. 

Our Business Segments 

OpenEdge Business Segment 

The OpenEdge business segment drives growth within OpenEdge&#8217;s large, diverse partner base by providing the product enhancements and marketing support these partners need to sell more of their existing solutions to their customers. The OpenEdge business segment is also focused on providing partners and direct end users with a clear path to develop and integrate cloud-based applications in the future. With an enhanced services organization bolstered by the October 2014 acquisition of BravePoint, we help partners and customers leverage their core assets and develop strategies that protect current investments, while addressing changing business requirements. 

The solutions within the OpenEdge Business Segment include: 

Progress OpenEdge 

Progress OpenEdge is development software for building dynamic multi-language applications for secure deployment across any platform, any mobile device, and any cloud. OpenEdge provides a unified environment comprising development tools, application servers, application management tools, an embedded relational database management system, and the capability to connect and integrate with other applications and data sources independently or with other Progress products. 

Progress Corticon 

Progress Corticon is a Business Rules Management System (BRMS) that enables applications with decision automation, decision change process and decision-related insight capabilities. Corticon helps both business and IT users to quickly create or reuse business rules as well as create, improve, collaborate on, and maintain decision logic. Corticon is a market-leading platform for automating and executing business changes. 

Data Connectivity and Integration Business Segment 

The Data Connectivity and Integration Business Segment (DCI) is focused on the growth of our data assets, including the data integration components of our cloud offerings. Data is at the core of every application, and with the exponential growth in the number and volume of data sources, this business segment addresses the increasingly complex challenges that organizations have in accessing and integrating that data. 

The solutions within the DCI Business Segment include: 

Progress DataDirect Connect 

Progress DataDirect Connect software provides data connectivity using industry-standard interfaces to connect applications running on various platforms to any major database, for both corporate IT organizations and software vendors. With software components embedded in the products of over 350 software companies and in the applications of thousands of large enterprises, the DataDirect Connect product set is a global leader in the data connectivity market. The primary products, in addition to other drivers we have developed, are ODBC drivers, JDBC drivers and ADO.NET providers. They provide the capability to connect and integrate with other applications and data sources independently or with our cloud-based offerings. 

Progress DataDirect Cloud 

Progress DataDirect Cloud is a software-as-a-service (SaaS) based connection management service that simplifies SQL access to a broad spectrum of cloud-based data sources through a single standards-based interface. The DataDirect Cloud service executes SQL queries against the appropriate cloud data source, managing all of the complexity, API&#8217;s, and versioning for the host application. In addition to integrating with our other cloud-based offerings, it provides the capability to connect and integrate with other applications and data sources independently. 

Application Development and Deployment Business Segment 

The Application Development and Deployment (AppDev) business segment is focused on generating net new customers of our application development assets, including our cloud-based offerings and the products and solutions we acquired from Telerik. This business segment has the focus and agility of a start-up, able to react quickly to changes in this rapidly-evolving market. Having a team solely focused on this market enables us to rapidly meet the demands of developers who are seeking to increase their productivity and move toward the cloud. 

The solutions within the AppDev Business Segment include: 

Telerik Dev Tools 

Telerik Dev Tools is a cross-platform, user experience design, quality assurance, debugging and reporting suite for next generation web, mobile, desktop and HTML5 applications. Utilizing Telerik&#8217;s Dev Tools enables developers to focus on business logic and not infrastructure. Included in the Telerik Dev Tools are Telerik Fiddler and Kendo UI. 

Telerik Dev Cloud 

Telerik Dev Cloud is a cloud-based application design, deployment, hosting and testing suite featuring hybrid application development environment, backend as a service, analytics and mobile testing. 

Telerik Platform 

The Telerik Platform is a complete end-to-end application lifecycle solution that combines Telerik&#8217;s Dev Tools, Dev Cloud and ALM products into an integrated platform for mobile application development using any approach (web, hybrid and native). 

Telerik ALM 

Telerik ALM is an application lifecycle management suite for testing web, mobile and desktop applications that covers the process from idea to deployment. The principal product that makes up Telerik ALM is Telerik Test Studio. 

Telerik Sitefinity 

Telerik Sifefinity is a next-generation web content management and customer analytics platform for managing and optimizing digital experiences. Telerik Sitefinity combines superior end-user experience with high level of customization capabilities for developers. 

Progress Rollbase 

Progress Rollbase is application development software that allows rapid creation of SaaS business applications using point &#38; click, drag &#38; drop tools in a standard web browser with a minimal amount of code. Progress Rollbase applications can be deployed in any cloud or on-premise infrastructure. 

Modulus 

Modulus is a control platform for running Node.js applications, one of the most productive control platform languages available today. The Modulus Node.js and MongoDB cloud platform is designed to simplify and speed development of the new generation of scalable, always connected business and consumer applications that are constantly monitored and optimized for the best experience. 

Product Development 

Most of our products have been developed by our internal product development staff or the internal staffs of acquired companies. We believe that the features and performance of our products are competitive with those of other available development and deployment tools and that none of the current versions of our products are approaching obsolescence. However, we believe that significant investments in new product development and continuing enhancements of our current products will be required for us to maintain our competitive position. 

As of November 30, 2015, we have four primary development offices in North America, two primary development offices in EMEA and one primary development office in India. We spent $88.3 million , $63.1 million , and $58.2 million &#32;in fiscal years 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively, on product development, including capitalized software development costs. 

Customers 

We market our products globally through several channels: directly to end-users and indirectly to application partners (or ISVs), OEMs, and system integrators. Sales of our solutions and products through our direct sales force have historically been to business managers or IT managers in corporations and governmental agencies. For sales of the solutions within our AppDev business segment, we principally target developers who create business applications, from individuals to teams, within enterprises of all sizes. 

We also market our products through indirect channels, primarily application partners and OEMs who embed our products as part of an integrated solution. We use international distributors in certain locations where we do not have a direct presence or where it is more economically feasible for us to do so. 

More than half of our license revenues are derived from indirect channels. No single customer has accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in any of our last three fiscal years. 

Application Partners 

Our application partners cover a broad range of markets, offer an extensive library of business applications and are a source of follow-on revenue. We have kept entry costs, consisting primarily of the initial purchase of development licenses, low to encourage a wide variety of application partners to build applications. If an application partner succeeds in marketing its applications, we obtain follow-on revenue as the application partner licenses our deployment products to allow its application to be installed and used by customers. We offer a subscription model alternative to the traditional perpetual license model for application partners who have chosen to enable their business applications under a SaaS platform. 

Original Equipment Manufacturers 

We enter into arrangements with OEMs whereby the OEM embeds our products into its solutions, typically either software or technology devices. OEMs typically license the right to embed our products into their solutions and distribute such solutions for initial terms ranging from one to three years. Historically, a significant portion of our OEMs have renewed their agreements upon the expiration of the initial term. However, we are not assured that they will continue to renew in the future. 

Sales and Marketing 

We sell our products and solutions through our direct sales force and indirect channel partners. We have sold our products and solutions to enterprises in over 180 countries. Our sales and field marketing groups are organized by business segment and secondarily by region. We operate by region in North America, Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific. We believe this structure allows us to maintain direct contact with our customers and support their diverse market requirements. Our international operations provide focused local sales, support and marketing efforts and are able to respond directly to changes in local conditions. 

In addition to our direct sales efforts, we distribute our products through systems integrators, resellers, distributors, and OEM partners in the United States and internationally. Systems integrators typically have expertise in vertical or functional markets. In some cases, they resell our products, bundling them with their broader service offerings. In other cases, they refer sales opportunities to our direct sales force for our products. Distributors sublicense our products and provide service and support within their territories. OEMs embed portions of our technology in their product offerings. 

Sales personnel are responsible for developing new direct end-user accounts, recruiting new indirect channel partners and new independent distributors, managing existing channel partner relationships and servicing existing customers. We actively seek to avoid conflict between the sales efforts of our application partners and our own direct sales efforts. We use our inside sales team to enhance our direct sales efforts and to generate new business and follow-on business from existing customers. 

Our marketing personnel conduct a variety of marketing engagement programs designed to create demand for our products, enhance the market readiness of our products, raise the general awareness of our company and our products and solutions, generate leads for the sales organization and promote our various products. These programs include press relations, analyst relations, investor relations, digital/web marketing, marketing communications, participation in trade shows and industry conferences, and production of sales and marketing literature. We also hold global events, as well as regional user events in various locations throughout the world. 

Our sales and marketing efforts with respect to the solutions within our Application Development and Deployment business segment differ from our traditional sales and marketing efforts because the target markets are different. For the products in our AppDev business segment, we have designed our marketing and sales model to be efficient for high volumes of lower-price transactions. Our marketing efforts focus on driving traffic to our websites and on generating high quality sales leads, in many cases, consisting of developer end users who download a free evaluation of our software. Our sales efforts then focus on converting these leads into paying customers through a high volume, short duration, sales process. Of particular importance to our target market, we enable our customers to buy our products in a manner convenient to them, whether by purchase order, online with a credit card or through our channel partners. 

Customer Support 

Our customer support staff provides telephone and Web-based support to end-users, application developers and OEMs. Customers may purchase maintenance services entitling them to software updates, technical support and technical bulletins. Maintenance is generally not required with our products and is purchased at the customer's option. We provide support to customers primarily through our main regional customer support centers in Bedford, Massachusetts; Morrisville, North Carolina; Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Hyderabad, India; Melbourne, Australia; and Sofia, Bulgaria. Local technical support for specific products is provided in certain other countries as well. 

Professional Services 

Our global professional services organization delivers business solutions for customers through a combination of products, consulting and education. Our consulting organization offers project management, implementation services, custom development, programming and other services. Our consulting organization also provides services to Web-enable existing applications or to take advantage of the capabilities of new product releases. Our education organization offers numerous training options, from traditional instructor-led courses to advanced learning modules available via the web or on CDs. 

In 2014, we significantly bolstered our professional services capabilities by acquiring BravePoint, a leading provider of consulting, training and application development services. This acquisition enhanced our ability to quickly enable our partners and customers to take greater advantage of new technologies. With the acquisition of BravePoint, our services offerings include: application modernization; data management, managed database services; performance enhancements and tuning; and analytics/business intelligence. In 2016, we expect to expand our professional services capabilities in support of the products and solutions within our AppDev business segment. 

Competition 

The computer software industry is intensely competitive. We experience significant competition from a variety of sources with respect to all of our products. Factors affecting competition in the markets we serve include product performance in complex applications, application solutions, vendor experience, ease of integration, price, training and support. 

We compete in various markets with a number of entities, such as salesforce.com, Inc., Amazon.com, Inc., Software AG, RedHat, Inc., Pivotal Software, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation and other smaller firms. Many of these vendors offer platform-as-a-service (PaaS), application development, data integration and other tools in conjunction with their CRM, web services, operating systems and relational database management systems. We believe that IBM Corporation, Microsoft Corporation and Oracle Corporation currently dominate the relational database market. We do not believe that there is a dominant vendor in the other infrastructure software markets, including application development. Some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing or technical resources than we have and/or may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Increased competition could make it more difficult for us to maintain our revenue and market presence. 

Copyrights, Trademarks, Patents and Licenses 

We rely on a combination of contractual provisions and copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights in our products. We generally distribute our products under software license agreements that grant customers a perpetual nonexclusive license to use our products and contain terms and conditions prohibiting the unauthorized reproduction or transfer of our products. We also distribute our products through various channel partners, including application partners, OEMs and system integrators. We also license our products under term or subscription arrangements. In addition, we attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through agreements with employees, consultants and channel partners. Although we intend to protect our rights vigorously, there is no assurance that these measures will be successful. 

We seek to protect the source code of our products as trade secrets and as unpublished copyrighted works. We hold numerous patents covering portions of our products. We also have several patent applications for some of our other product technologies. Where possible, we seek to obtain protection of our product names and service offerings through trademark registration and other similar procedures throughout the world. 

We believe that due to the rapid pace of innovation within our industry, factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel are as important in establishing and maintaining a leadership position within the industry as are the various legal protections of our technology. In addition, we believe that the nature of our customers, the importance of our products to them and their need for continuing product support may reduce the risk of unauthorized reproduction, although no assurances can be made in this regard. 

Business Segment and Geographical Information 

Effective September 1, 2014, we began operating as three distinct business segments: OpenEdge, Data Connectivity and Integration, and Application Development and Deployment and began segment reporting for our three business segments beginning in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2014. The organizational changes we made in October 2015 did not necessitate further changes in our segment reporting. For additional information on business segments as well as geographical financial information, see Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Employees 

As of November 30, 2015 , we had 1,766 &#32;employees worldwide, including 501 &#32;in sales and marketing, 243 &#32;in customer support and services, 781 &#32;in product development and 241 &#32;in administration. None of our U.S. employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Employees in certain foreign jurisdictions are represented by local workers&#8217; councils and/or collective bargaining agreements as may be customary or required in those jurisdictions. We have experienced no work stoppages and believe our relations with employees are good. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website at www.progress.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report. 

Our Code of Conduct is also available on our website. Additional information about this code and amendments and waivers thereto can be found below in Part III, Item 10 of this Form 10-K. 

