 Item 1 . Business 

All dollar amounts included in this section are in thousands.

General 

Astec Industries, Inc. (the "Company") is a Tennessee corporation which was incorporated in 1972. The Company designs, engineers, manufactures and markets equipment and components used primarily in road building and related construction activities as well as other products discussed below. The Company's products are used in each phase of road building, from quarrying and crushing the aggregate to application of the road surface. The Company also manufactures certain equipment and components unrelated to road construction, including equipment for the mining, quarrying, construction and demolition industries and port and rail yard operators; gas and oil drilling rigs; water well and geothermal drilling rigs; industrial heat transfer equipment; whole-tree pulpwood chippers; horizontal grinders; and blower trucks. The Company also manufactures a line of multiple use plants for cement treated base, roller compacted concrete and ready-mix concrete. The Company recently developed and began marketing pelletizing equipment used to compress wood and other products into dense pellets for the renewable energy market among other applications. The Company's subsidiaries hold 77 United States and 69 foreign patents and have an additional 40 United States and 69 foreign patent applications pending. The Company has been responsible for many technological and engineering innovations in the industries in which it operates. The Company's products are marketed both domestically and internationally. In addition to equipment sales, the Company manufactures and sells replacement parts for equipment in each of its product lines and replacement parts for some competitors' equipment. The distribution and sale of replacement parts is an integral part of the Company's business.

The Company's fifteen manufacturing subsidiaries are:

(i)

Astec, Inc. (including its Dillman division), which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets asphalt plants, wood pellet plants and related components of each;

(ii)

Roadtec, Inc., which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets highway and commercial classes of asphalt pavers, material transfer vehicles, milling machines and a line of soil stabilizing-reclaiming machinery;

(iii)

Carlson Paving Products, Inc., which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets asphalt paver screeds and commercial pavers;

(iv)

Telsmith, Inc., which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets aggregate processing and mining equipment for the production and classification of sand, gravel, crushed stone and minerals used in road construction and other applications;

(v)

Kolberg-Pioneer, Inc., which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets aggregate processing equipment for the crushed stone, gravel, manufactured sand, recycle, top soil and remediation markets;

(vi)

Johnson Crushers International, Inc., which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets portable and stationary aggregate and ore processing equipment for the crushed stone, gravel, manufactured sand, recycle, top soil and remediation markets;

(vii)

Astec Mobile Screens, Inc. which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets mobile screening plants, portable and stationary structures and vibrating screens for the aggregate, recycle and material processing industries;

(viii)

Breaker Technology Ltd/Inc., which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets rock breaking systems in addition to processing equipment and utility vehicles for the mining and quarrying industries;

(ix)

Osborn Engineered Products SA (Pty) Ltd, which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets a complete line of bulk material handling and minerals processing plant and equipment used in the aggregate, mineral mining, metallic mining and recycling industries and also markets equipment produced by other Astec companies;

(x)

Astec do Brasil Fabricacao de Equipamentos Ltda., which manufactures and sells rock crushers, feeders, screens and asphalt plants and represents the brands of several other Astec companies in the South American construction and mining industries;

(xi)

Telestack Limited, acquired in April 2014 and located in Northern Ireland, which designs, manufactures and installs a complete line of material handling systems to serve the port handling, bulk material handling and aggregate markets;

(xii)

Heatec, Inc., which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets thermal fluid heaters, process heaters, waste heat recovery equipment, liquid storage systems and polymer and rubber blending systems;

(xiii)

CEI Enterprises, Inc., which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets thermal fluid heaters, storage tanks, concrete plants and rubberized asphalt and polymer blending systems;

(xiv)

GEFCO, Inc., which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets portable drilling rigs and related equipment for the water well, environmental, groundwater monitoring, construction, geothermal, mining and shallow oil and gas exploration and production industries. Additionally, during 2015 the Astec Underground, Inc. product lines were absorbed by GEFCO coincident with the closing of Astec Underground, including high pressure diesel powered pump trailers used for fracking and cleaning oil and gas wells and drilling rigs for the oil and gas industries; and

(xv)

Peterson Pacific Corp., which designs, engineers, manufactures and markets whole-tree pulpwood chippers, horizontal grinders and blower trucks.

The Company also has subsidiaries in Australia, Astec Australia Pty Ltd, and Germany, Astec Mobile Machinery GmbH, that market, service and install equipment and provide parts in the regions in which they operate for many of the products produced by the Company's manufacturing subsidiaries.

The Company's strategy is to be the industry's most cost-efficient producer in each of its product lines while continuing to develop innovative new products and provide first class service for its customers. Management believes that the Company is the technological innovator in the markets in which it operates and is well positioned to capitalize on the need to rebuild and enhance roadway and utility infrastructure as well as in other areas in which it offers products and services, both in the United States and abroad.

Segment Reporting 

The Company's business units have their own management teams and offer different products and services. Since January 1, 2014, the Company's business units have been aggregated into three reportable business segments based upon the nature of the product or services produced, the type of customer for the products, the similarity of economic characteristics, the manner in which management reviews results and the nature of the production process, among other considerations. The Company's current reportable business segments are (i) Infrastructure Group, (ii) Aggregate and Mining Group and (iii) Energy Group. The remaining business units not included in one of the reportable segments provide support and corporate oversight for all the Company's business units and include Astec Industries, Inc., the parent company, and Astec Insurance Company, a captive insurance company. We refer to these two companies as the "Corporate" category throughout this document. The Company records U.S. federal income tax expenses for all business segments on the parent company's books; therefore, these taxes are included in the Corporate category for segment reporting.

Financial information in connection with the Company's financial reporting for segments of a business and for geographic areas under FASB Accounting Standards Codification 280 is included in Note 17, Operations by Industry Segment and Geographic Area, in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" presented in Appendix A of this report.

Infrastructure Group 

The Infrastructure Group segment is made up of five business units. These business units include Astec, Inc. ("Astec"), Roadtec, Inc. ("Roadtec"), Carlson Paving Products, Inc. ("Carlson"), Astec Mobile Machinery GmbH ("AMM") and Astec Australia Pty Ltd ("Astec Australia"). Three of the business units (Astec, Roadtec and Carlson) design, engineer, manufacture and market a complete line of asphalt and wood pellet plants and their related components, asphalt pavers, screeds, milling machines, material transfer vehicles, stabilizers and related ancillary equipment. The other two business units (AMM and Astec Australia) primarily sell, service and install products produced by the manufacturing subsidiaries of the Company with a majority of their sales to customers in the infrastructure industry.

Products 

Astec designs, engineers, manufactures and markets a complete line of asphalt and wood pellet plants and related components primarily for the asphalt paving and wood pellet industries. Certain component equipment supplied by Astec for asphalt and wood pellet plants is manufactured by other Company subsidiaries such as heating and storage equipment (manufactured by the Company's Energy Group) and material handling equipment (manufactured by the Company's Aggregate and Mining Group). A typical asphalt mixing plant consists of heating and storage equipment for liquid asphalt; cold feed bins for blending aggregates; a counter-flow continuous type unit (Astec Double Barrel) for drying, heating and mixing; a baghouse composed of air filters and other pollution control devices; hot storage bins or silos for temporary storage of hot-mix asphalt; and a control house. Astec introduced the concept of high plant portability for asphalt plants in 1979. Its current generation of portable asphalt plants is marketed as the Six Pack and consists of six or more portable components designed to be easily relocated from one construction site to another, thereby reducing relocation expenses. High plant portability represents an industry innovation developed and successfully marketed by Astec. Astec's enhanced version of the Six Pack, known as the Turbo Six Pack, is a highly portable plant which is especially useful in less populated areas where plants must be moved from job-to-job and can be disassembled and erected without the use of cranes.

Astec developed the patented Double Barrel Green System, which allows the asphalt mix to be prepared and placed at lower temperatures than conventional systems and operates with a substantial reduction in emissions during paving and load-out. Previous technologies for warm mix production rely on expensive additives, procedures and/or special asphalt cement delivery systems that significantly increase the cost per ton of mix. The Company's new Astec multi-nozzle device eliminates the need for the expensive additives by mixing a small amount of water and asphalt cement together to create microscopic bubbles that reduce the viscosity of the asphalt mix coating on the rock, thereby allowing the mix to be handled and worked at lower temperatures.

Astec is focused on producing equipment with the most advanced mix recycling technology in the industry. More tons of asphalt are available for recycling than is currently being utilized due to restrictions in the amount of recycle allowed by various governmental agencies. Astec's recycle technology is continuously being enhanced and is providing the science to alleviate fears driving these restrictions and thereby improve recycling percentages in the asphalt industry.

The components in Astec's asphalt mixing plants are fully automated and use both microprocessor-based and programmable logic control systems for efficient operation. The plants are manufactured to meet or exceed federal and state clean air standards. Astec also builds batch type asphalt plants and has developed specialized asphalt recycling equipment for use with its hot-mix asphalt plants.

Astec's wood pellet plants have been in commercial production since 2013 . Astec's modular design for its wood pellet plants includes replicated parallel production lines (for instance, a 60 ton-per-hour ("TPH") plant consists of three 20 TPH lines) resulting in very few points in the process where any individual equipment failure can shut the entire plant down. In most other pellet plant designs, one small equipment failure, such as a dryer outage would mean a total plant shutdown. In a 60 TPH Astec plant, a dryer outage means the plant continues to operate at 40 TPH. In fact, there are very few reasons why the plant would ever be completely shut down. Even major maintenance cycles may be performed line-by-line while the plant continues to operate on the other lines. 

Roadtec manufactures asphalt pavers, material transfer vehicles, milling machines, soil stabilizing-reclaiming machinery and other equipment used in road building and resurfacing. Roadtec pavers have been designed to minimize maintenance costs while exceeding road surface smoothness requirements. The equipment offered by Roadtec can be used in tandem with each other or separately with equipment already owned by the customer.

Roadtec's Shuttle Buggy is a mobile, self-propelled material transfer vehicle which allows continuous paving by separating truck unloading from the paving process while remixing the asphalt. A typical asphalt paver must stop paving to permit truck unloading of asphalt mix. By permitting continuous paving, the Shuttle Buggy allows the asphalt paver to produce a smoother road surface while reducing the time required to pave the road surface and reducing the number of haul trucks required. As a result of the pavement smoothness achieved with this machine, certain states now require the use of the Shuttle Buggy. Studies using infrared technology have revealed problems caused by differential cooling of the hot-mix during hauling. The Shuttle Buggy &#160; remixes the material to a uniform temperature and gradation, thus eliminating these problems. Roadtec's newest version of its highly successful Shuttle Buggy will be introduced to the market in 2016. Roadtec's paver models recommended for use with the Shuttle Buggy are also designed to carry and spray tack coat directly in front of the hot mix asphalt in a single process.

Roadtec manufactures milling machines designed to remove old asphalt from the road surface before new asphalt mix is applied. Roadtec's line of milling machine, which are designed for larger jobs, are manufactured with a simplified control system, wide conveyors, direct drives and a wide range of horsepower and cutting capabilities to provide versatility in product application. In addition to its half-lane and larger highway class milling machines, Roadtec also manufactures a smaller, utility class machine for two to four foot cutting widths and a utility class cold planer model mounted on wheels.

Roadtec currently produces soil stabilizers in configurations of 275HP, 440HP, 625HP and 755HP. These machines double as asphalt reclaiming machines for road rehabilitations, in addition to their primary purpose of stabilizing soil sub-grades with additives to provide an improved base on which to pave.

Roadtec recently introduced several new products including an international class 2.5 meter track paver designed to carry a tamper bar screed, an international compatible track mounted material transfer vehicle, a sweeper with an integral conveyor and a Tier IV emission compliant eight foot rubber tired paver.

Carlson manufactures its patented screeds which attach to asphalt paving machines and place asphalt on the roadbed at a desired thickness and width while smoothing and compacting the surface. Carlson screeds can be configured to fit many types of asphalt paving machines, including machines manufactured by both the Company and its competitors. The Carlson screed uses a hydraulic powered generator to electrify elements that heat a screed plate so asphalt will not stick to it while paving. A generator is also available to power tools or lights for night paving. Carlson offers options to its screeds which allow extended paving widths and the addition of a curb on the road edge. Carlson also offers two commercial class eight foot pavers designed for parking lots, residential and secondary road applications to fill the void between competitors' commercial pavers and Roadtec's highway class paver line.

Astec Mobile Machinery functions primarily as a distributor of Roadtec products in the European market. Additionally, it designed and manufactures a small road widener attachment to meet the unique needs of the European market.

Astec Australia markets relocatable and portable asphalt plants and components produced by Astec, Heatec and CEI, asphalt paving equipment and components produced by Roadtec and Carlson, and aggregate equipment produced by the Company's Aggregate &#38; Mining Group with a majority of their sales being to customers in the infrastructure industry. In addition to selling equipment, Astec Australia provides complete support for their customers' equipment with service, training and spare parts. Astec Australia also provides turnkey installation solutions for large asphalt plants, aggregate and mining plants and bitumen tank farms.

Marketing 

The Company markets its hot-mix asphalt products domestically under the Astec and Astec Dillman trademarks and internationally under the Astec trademarks. Asphalt plants and related equipment are sold directly to asphalt producers or domestic and foreign government agencies through Astec's domestic and international sales departments and through a Company owned dealership (Astec Australia), although independent agents are also used to market asphalt plants and their components in certain international markets. The Company markets wood pellet plants to individual plant operators supplying wood pellets to the utility and home-use industries.

The Company markets its asphalt paving equipment both domestically and internationally to highway and heavy equipment contractors, utility contractors and foreign and domestic governmental agencies both directly and through dealers (including AMM in the European market). Mobile construction equipment and factory authorized machine rebuild services are marketed both directly and through dealers.

This segment employs 88 direct sales staff, 74 domestic independent distributors and 92 international independent distributors, including Astec-owned distributors in Australia and Germany.

Raw Materials 

Raw materials used in the manufacture of products in the Infrastructure Group include carbon steel, pipe and various types of alloy steel, which are normally purchased from distributors and other sources. Raw materials for manufacturing are normally readily available. Most steel is delivered on a "just-in-time" arrangement from the supplier to reduce inventory requirements at the manufacturing facilities, but steel is occasionally inventoried after purchase. Other components used in the manufacturing processes include engines, gearboxes, power transmissions and electronic systems.

Competition 

This industry segment faces strong competition in price, service and product performance and competes with both large publicly-held companies and various smaller manufacturers. Domestic hot-mix asphalt plant competitors include Gencor Industries, Inc., ADM and Almix. In the international market, the hot-mix asphalt plant competitors include Ammann, Fayat/Marini, Benninghoven/Wirtgen and local manufacturers. Paving equipment and screed competitors include Weiler, Caterpillar Paving Products, Inc., Volvo Construction Equipment, Vogele America, a subsidiary of Wirtgen America, Dynapac, a subsidiary of Atlas-Copco, Bomag Fayat Group and Lee Boy. The segment's milling machine equipment competitors include Wirtgen, CMI, Caterpillar, Bomag, Dynapac and Volvo. The Company believes that it is the only company offering a single source for a complete pellet plant as known competitors only sell individual plant components thereby requiring the customer to purchase the remaining plant components from other sources.

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, the Infrastructure Group segment employed 1,395 individuals, of which 935 were engaged in manufacturing, 162 in engineering and 298 in selling, general and administrative functions. None of the employees of the Infrastructure Group are covered by collective bargaining agreements.

Backlog 

The backlog for the Infrastructure Group at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $203,830 and $147,190, respectively. Approximately $60,249 of the 2015 and $59,275 of the 2014 backlog relates to the Company's first three-line pellet plant order from a single customer. Substantially all of this order was manufactured and delivered to the customer prior to December 31, 2015. As the Company is financing this sale, revenue recognition on the plant sale will not occur until customer payments are received. The 2015 backlog also includes a $29,273 order for the first line of an expected four-line pellet plant order from another customer. Substantially all of this order was shipped by December 31, 2015 and the Company expects to recognize the related revenue in the first half of 2016. Management expects the current backlog to be filled in 2016.

Aggregate and Mining Group 

The Company's Aggregate and Mining Group is comprised of eight business units which are focused on designing and manufacturing heavy processing equipment, servicing and supplying parts for the aggregate, metallic mining, recycling, ports and bulk handling markets. These business units achieve their strength by distributing products into niche markets and drawing on the advantages of the Company's technical experience and brand recognition in the global market. These business units are Telsmith, Inc. ("Telsmith"), Kolberg-Pioneer, Inc. ("KPI"), Astec Mobile Screens, Inc. ("AMS"), Johnson Crushers International, Inc. ("JCI"), Breaker Technology Ltd/Breaker Technology, Inc. ("BTI"), Osborn Engineered Products, SA (Pty) Ltd ("Osborn"), Astec do Brasil Fabricacao de Equipamentos Ltda. ("Astec Brazil") and Telestack Limited ("Telestack"), which was acquired in April 2014.

Products 

Telsmith designs, engineers, manufactures and supports equipment servicing the aggregate, metallic mining, concrete and asphalt, recycling markets. Telsmith's core products are crushers, vibrating equipment, modular relocatable stationary plants, mobile portable plants and larger track mounted systems. Telsmith also provides consulting and engineering services to provide complete "turnkey" processing systems.

Telsmith maintains an ISO 9001:2008 certification, an internationally recognized standard of quality assurance. In addition, Telsmith has achieved CE designation (a standard for quality assurance and safety) on its crushing and vibration equipment products marketed into European Union countries.

Telsmith recently introduced new models expanding its Hydra Jaw line and T-Series Cone Crusher product lines. These products are advanced in design with patent pending features to address customer needs such as easier maintenance, increased safety and higher production rates.

KPI, JCI and AMS design, engineer, manufacture and support equipment that serves the aggregate, metallic and nonmetallic, bulk handling and concrete and asphalt recycling markets. KPI's, JCI's and AMS's core products include crushers, vibrating equipment including high frequency, washing equipment, material handling equipment, stationary plants, portable plants including the industry recognized Fast Pack System, and a complete line of fast track and global track systems. This equipment is marketed through an extensive network of KPI-JCI and AMS distributors. In 2015, JCI added 10,000 square feet to its manufacturing plant to expand its cone crushing production capabilities.

During 2015, KPI, JCI and AMS expanded their product offering of the Global Trax by adding the GT104 and GT205MF mobile track-screens. They added a new model to the Vanguard Crusher Series, a 2056 Gravel Jaw, and introduced an industry first JCI 4-deck Horizontal Screen line. These new products specifically meet the needs of the companies' growing global customer base.

KPI, JCI and AMS mobile plants combine various combinations of cone crushers, horizontal screens, combo screens and conveyors mounted on tow away chassis and track chassis configurations. Due to high transportation costs of construction materials, many producers use portable equipment to process materials they need close to their job sites. Portable plants allow aggregate producers the ability to quickly and efficiently move equipment from one location to another as their jobs necessitate. The portable track plants are fully self-contained and allow operators to be producing materials within minutes of unloading equipment off of their transport trucks. The introduction of track-mounted crushing and screening plants has enabled contractors to perform jobs that in the past were not economically feasible and also allows dealers to compete in the large track-mounted rental market. 

KPI, JCI and AMS sand classifying and washing equipment is designed to clean, separate and re-blend material from sand deposits to meet the size specifications for critical applications. KPI-JCI and AMS products include fine and coarse material washers, log washers, blade mills, sand classifying tanks, cyclones, dewatering screens, density classifiers, sieve blend screens and attrition cells. KPI-JCI and AMS also offer additional portable and stationary plants to handle the growing needs in construction sands, specialty sands and fines recovery. Screening plants are available in both stationary and highly portable models and are complemented by a full line of radial stacking and overland belt conveyors.

KPI, JCI and AMS conveying equipment is designed to move or store aggregate and other bulk materials in radial cone-shaped or windrow stockpiles. The KPI-JCI and AMS SuperStacker telescoping conveyor and Wizard Touch automated controls are designed to add efficiency and accuracy to whatever the stockpile specifications require. Additionally, high capacity rail and barge loading/unloading material handling systems are an important part of the KPI-JCI and AMS product lines.

KPI, JCI and Astec Mobile Screens also recently launched a competitively-priced brand of cone wear liner and jaw die wear lines designed by the Company's foundry experts who specialize in metallurgy and manufacturing engineering. These parts are offered in addition to the company's OEM and PDQ parts as part of its comprehensive parts offering sold through its global dealer network.

BTl located in Thornbury, Canada, designs, engineers, manufactures and markets a complete line of industry leading rockbreaker systems for the mining, quarry and recycling markets, and provides large-scale stationary rockbreakers for open pit mining, as well as mid-sized stationary rock breakers for underground applications. In addition BTI offers a full line of smaller rock breaker systems for mobile track and portable primary crushing plants. BTl also designs, engineers, manufactures and markets a complete line of four wheel drive articulated production and utility vehicles, scalers and rock breakers for underground mining.

In addition to supplying equipment for the mining and quarry industries, BTl also designs, manufactures and markets a complete line of hydraulic breakers, compactors and demolition attachments for the North American construction and demolition markets.

BTl maintains ISO9001:2008 and 14001:2004 certifications, internationally recognized standards of quality and environmental assurance. BTI has adhered to the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health &#38; Safety standards and expects to achieve certification in 2016. BTl offers an extensive aftermarket sales and service program through a highly qualified and trained dealer network.

During 2015, BTI designed a new generation of mechanized scaler for ground control of underground hard rock mines, with the first machines expected to be operational in 2016. Refinements and improvements to its hydraulic breaker line of equipment were also launched during 2015.

Osborn, which is located in South Africa, maintains an ISO:9001:2008 certification for quality assurance and designs, engineers, manufactures and markets a range of minerals processing equipment. This equipment is used in the aggregate, mining, metallurgical and recycling industries. Osborn has been a licensee of Telsmith's technology for over 60 years and recently became a licensee of KPI's vertical and horizontal shaft impact crushers. Osborn also offers the following equipment: mineral sizers; single and double-toggle jaw crushers; cone crushers; rotary breakers; roll crushers; rolling ring crushers; mills; out-of-balance or exciter-driven screens and feeders; modular "containerized" crusher and screening systems and a full range of idlers. Osborn also markets equipment produced by other Astec companies in the sub-Saharan African market acting as an Astec Company Store.

Osborn has recently added a number of new products to its product offerings, including a 300 HP gyratory crusher for secondary applications, horizontal shaft impactors, an extension to the range of out-of-balance exciter gearboxes and a low profile apron feeder, in addition to numerous modernization and updates to its existing product lines . 

Assembly operations began in Astec Brazil's newly constructed 132,400 square foot facility in the fourth quarter of 2014 and complete production operations began in the first quarter of 2015. Manufacturing operations, sales, distribution and product support are all located within the new facility, which currently employees 58 out of an ultimately expected 120 employees at full capacity. During 2015, the facility began the manufacture of crushing equipment, vibrating equipment, stationary plants and mobile portable systems. They represent the brands of KPI-JCI, AMS, BTI and Telsmith in the aggregate and mining markets. Astec Brazil also operated as a Company Store in the Brazilian market for the other Astec Aggregate and Mining companies and Astec asphalt plants.

Additionally, in late 2015, Astec Brazil started production of its first asphalt plant. The Company also plans to manufacture other product lines at the facility in the future. Once fully funded, Astec Brazil is expected to be 75% owned by the Company, with the other 25% being owned by MDE, a recognized leader in providing material handling solutions to the Brazilian mining market.

Telestack, located in Omagh, Northern Ireland, designs, engineers, manufactures and markets mobile bulk material handling solutions that are designed to handle all free flowing bulk materials including but not limited to ores, coal, aggregates, fertilizers, grains, woodchips and pellets. Telestack's comprehensive suite of product offerings is sold on a global basis and operates within a significant number of working environments such as mines, quarries, ports, rail yards, power stations and steel mills.

Telestack maintains ISO9001:2008 (quality assurance), ISO 14001:2004 (environmental assurance) and ISO 18001:2007 (health and safety assurance) accreditations. Telestack is also an approved supplier of equipment that conforms to Western Australian Mining Standards (As 4524:1).

Telestack introduced several new products during 2015 including the two new TS "AggStack" models, telescoping anti-segregation stockpile conveyors that can be shipped in 40 foot shipping containers. Telestack also designed and delivered a new larger loader than previously offered for a major USA aggregate producer which reduces the handling costs of loading barges for transport of aggregates.

Marketing 

Aggregate processing and mining equipment is marketed by approximately 132 direct sales employees, 196 domestic independent distributors and 144 international independent distributors. The principal purchasers of aggregate processing equipment include highway and heavy equipment contractors, sand and gravel producers, recycle and crushing contractors, mine operators, quarry operators, port and inland terminal authorities, power stations and foreign and domestic governmental agencies.

Raw Materials 

Raw materials used in the manufacture of products in the Aggregate and Mining Group include carbon steel and various types of alloy steel, which are normally purchased from distributors. Raw materials for manufacturing are normally readily available. BTI purchases hydraulic breakers under a purchasing arrangement with a South Korean supplier. The Company believes the South Korean supplier has sufficient capacity to meet the Company's anticipated demand; however, alternative suppliers exist for these components should any supply disruptions occur.

Competition 

The Aggregate and Mining Group faces strong competition in price, service and product performance. Aggregate and Mining equipment competitors include Metso Minerals, Sandvik Mining and Construction, Terex MP and Powerscreen, Atlas Copco Mining, McCloskey, Superior Industries, Wirtgen (Klemmann), Deister, McLanahan, CDE Global, Weir Minerals (Trio) and other smaller manufacturers, both domestic and international.

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, the Aggregate and Mining Group segment employed 1,570 individuals, of which 1,106 were engaged in manufacturing, 146 in engineering and engineering support functions and 318 in selling, general and administrative functions.

Telsmith has a labor agreement covering approximately 165 manufacturing employees which expires on September 17, 2017. Approximately 125 of Osborn's manufacturing employees fall within the scope of a collective labor union agreement that expires on June 30, 2017. None of the other employees of the Aggregate and Mining Group are covered by collective bargaining agreements.

Backlog 

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the backlog for the Aggregate and Mining Group was approximately $74,484 and $89,789, respectively. Approximately $10,500 of the decline in backlogs between years relates to orders from international customers. Management expects the current backlog to be filled in 2016.

Energy Group 

The Company's Energy Group is currently comprised of four business units focused on supplying heavy equipment such as heaters, drilling rigs, concrete plants, wood chippers and grinders, pump trailers, storage equipment and related parts to the oil and gas, construction, and water well industries. The business units currently included in the Energy Group are Heatec, Inc. ("Heatec"), CEI, Inc. ("CEI"), GEFCO, Inc. ("GEFCO") and Peterson Pacific, Inc. ("Peterson"). The Energy Group previously included the operations of Astec Underground, Inc. ("Astec Underground") located in Loudon, Tennessee. Astec Underground ceased operations in May 2015, the manufacturing facilities were sold later in 2015 and the responsibility for the sales and manufacturing responsibilities for the Astec Underground product lines were transferred to GEFCO during 2015.

Products 

Heatec designs, engineers, manufactures and markets a variety of thermal fluid heaters, process heaters, waste heat recovery equipment, liquid storage systems and polymer and rubber blending systems under the HEATEC trademark. For the construction industry, Heatec designs and manufactures a complete line of asphalt heating and storage equipment to serve the hot-mix asphalt industry including complete asphalt terminal facilities. In addition, Heatec builds a wide variety of heaters to fit a broad range of applications, including heating equipment for marine vessels, roofing material plants, refineries, oil sands, energy related processing, chemical processing, rubber plants and water heaters for many industrial applications. Heatec has the technical staff to custom design heating systems and has systems operating as large as 50 million BTU's per hour.

CEI designs, engineers, manufactures and markets thermal fluid heaters, portable and stationary storage tanks, rubberized asphalt and polymer blending systems for the asphalt and other industries. CEI also designs and builds continuous and batch type concrete production plants as well as water heaters and other equipment for the concrete industry. The Company believes the CEI continuous production plant is the most innovative plant in the concrete industry and is designed to produce consistent high quality, low cost concrete due to its advanced process control.

GEFCO designs and manufactures portable drilling rigs and related equipment for the water well, environmental, groundwater monitoring, construction, mining and shallow oil and gas exploration and production industries. Portable drilling rigs are offered in a variety of designs with optional equipment, including truck, trailer or track mounted units, diesel engine on deck or Power Take Off powered units, hydraulic pump drives, transmission, hydraulic pumps and motors, hydraulic cylinders, gear boxes, plumbing and all related controls.

During 2015, GEFCO absorbed responsibility for the design, manufacture and sales of the product lines previously produced by Astec Underground, including large oil and gas well drilling equipment and a trailer-mounted double fluid pumper for use in the hydraulic fracturing and the oil and gas extraction industries.

GEFCO is in the process of introducing a new, smaller drilling rig with improved functionality to serve the residential geothermal, environmental and geotechnical markets. The new rigs will be offered in both truck-mounted and track-mounted options.

Peterson designs, engineers, manufactures and distributes large whole-tree pulpwood chippers, biomass chippers, horizontal grinders and blower trucks primarily for the construction, landscaping, recycling, and biomass energy markets. A deck screen model for the wood chipping and grinding market is produced for Peterson by JCI. Peterson has granted rights under a licensing agreement to Morbark, USA, whereby Morbark may produce and sell certain grinder equipment covered by a Peterson patent.

Marketing 

The Energy Group markets its products domestically through a combination of employee sales agents, manufacturer reps and distributors, while international sales are typically accomplished with the assistance of independent sales agents. The group's products are marketed by approximately 56 direct sales employees, 38 domestic independent distributors and 27 international independent distributors. Customers typically include oil and gas field operators, industrial product manufacturers, independent contractors and government agencies. The market for the Company's heat transfer equipment is diverse because of the multiple applications for such equipment.

Raw Materials 

Raw materials used in the manufacture of products in the Energy Group include carbon steel and various types of alloy steel, which are normally purchased from distributors and other sources. Raw materials for manufacturing are normally readily available. Most steel is delivered on a "just-in-time" arrangement from suppliers to reduce inventory requirements at the manufacturing facilities, but steel is occasionally inventoried after purchase. Components used in the manufacturing process include engines, hydraulic pumps and motors, gearboxes, burners, power transmissions and electronic systems.

Competition 

The Energy Group faces strong competition in price, service and product performance and competes both with large companies that have resources significantly greater than those of the Company and with various smaller manufacturers. Major competitors include Gencor, Almix, Fulton, Sigma Thermal, Erie Strayer, Con-E-Co, Meeker, Versa Drill, Schramm, Atlas Copco, National Oil Well, Blohm &#38; Vos, Oil Country, NOV/Rolligon, Stewart &#38; Stevenson, Dragon, Morbark, CBI (Terex), Precision Doppstadt, Bandit, Jenz, Komptech and Fin.

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, the Energy Group segment employed 734 individuals, of which 484 were engaged in manufacturing, 92 in engineering and 158 in selling, general and administrative functions. GEFCO has a collective bargaining agreement in place for approximately 73 manufacturing employees. The current agreement expires on May 30, 2016. None of the other employees of the Energy Group are covered by collective bargaining agreements.

Backlog 

The backlog for the Energy Group at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $34,977 and $95,072, respectively. Approximately $43,300 of the decline in backlog between years relates to orders from international customers. Management expects all of the current backlog to be filled in 2016.

Corporate (Other Business Units) 

This category consists of the two business units that do not meet the requirements of separate disclosure as an operating segment or inclusion in one of the other reporting segments and includes Astec Industries, Inc., the parent company, and Astec Insurance Company, a captive insurance company. These two companies provide support and corporate oversight for all the other business units. The Company records U.S. federal income tax expenses for all business segments on the parent company's books; therefore, these taxes are included in the Corporate category for segment reporting.

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, the Corporate category employed 41 individuals, all of which were engaged in selling, general and administrative functions.

Common to All Operating Segments 

The following information applies to all operating segments of the Company.

Raw Materials 

Steel is a major component in the Company's equipment. Steel prices declined significantly during the majority of 2015 due in large part to the decline in primary steel making materials. Pricing appears to have bottomed out in late 2015. Moderate seasonal price increases are expected during the first six months of 2016. The Company continues to utilize forward-looking contracts coupled with advanced steel purchases to minimize the impact of any price increases. The Company will review the trends in steel prices entering into the second half of 2016 and establish future contract pricing accordingly.

Government Regulations 

The Company is subject to various laws and governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the United States and other countries. The Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety &#38; Health Administration, other federal agencies and certain state agencies have the authority to promulgate regulations that have an effect on the Company's operations. Many of these federal and state agencies may seek fines and penalties for violations of these laws and regulations. The Company has been able to operate under these laws and regulations without any material adverse effect on its business.

None of the Company's operating segments operate within highly regulated industries. However, air pollution control equipment manufactured by the Company, principally for hot-mix asphalt plants, must comply with certain performance standards promulgated by the federal Environmental Protection Agency under the Clean Air Act applicable to "new sources" or new plants. Management believes the Company's products meet all material requirements of such regulations and applicable state pollution standards and environmental protection laws.

In addition, due to the size and weight of certain equipment the Company manufactures, the Company and its customers may encounter conflicting state regulations on maximum weights transportable on highways. Also, some states have regulations governing the operation of asphalt mixing plants, and most states have regulations relating to the accuracy of weights and measures, which affect some of the control systems manufactured by the Company.

Compliance with these government regulations has no material effect on the Company's capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position within the market.

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, the Company and its subsidiaries employed 3,740 individuals, of which 2,525 were engaged in manufacturing, 400 in engineering, including support staff, and 815 in selling, administrative and management functions.

Other than the Telsmith and Osborn labor agreements described under the "Employee" subsection of the Aggregate and Mining Group above and the GEFCO labor agreement described under the "Employee" subsection of the Energy Group above, there are no other collective bargaining agreements applicable to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries. The Company considers its employee relations to be good.

Manufacturing 

The Company manufactures many of the component parts and related equipment for its products, while several large components of its products are purchased "ready-for-use". Such items include engines, axles, tires and hydraulics. In many cases, the Company designs, engineers and manufactures custom component parts and equipment to meet the particular needs of individual customers. Manufacturing operations during 2015 took place at 19 separate locations. The Company's manufacturing operations consist primarily of fabricating steel components and the assembly and testing of its products to ensure that the Company achieves quality control standards.

Seminars and Technical Bulletins 

The Company periodically conducts technical and service seminars, which are primarily for dealer representatives, contractors, owners, employees and other users of equipment manufactured by the Company. In 2015, approximately 495 representatives of contractors and owners of hot-mix asphalt plants attended seminars held by the Company in Chattanooga, Tennessee. These seminars, which are led by Company management and employees, along with select outside speakers and discussion leaders, cover a range of subjects, including, but not limited to, technological innovations in the hot-mix asphalt, aggregate processing, paving, milling and recycling markets.

The Company also sponsors executive seminars for the management of the customers of Astec, Heatec, CEI and Roadtec. Primarily, members of the Company's management conduct the various seminars, but outside speakers and discussion leaders are also utilized.

During 2015, nine service training seminars were held at the Roadtec facility for approximately 530 customer representatives, and six remote seminars were conducted at other locations for approximately 185 additional customer personnel. Telsmith conducted three technical seminars for approximately 120 customer and dealer representatives during 2015. KPI, JCI and AMS jointly conduct National Dealers Conference, an annual dealer event. The event offers the entire dealer network a preview of future products, marketing and promotional programs to help dealers operate successful businesses. In addition to this event, the companies also provide factory customer and dealer training and on-site local, regional and national sales training programs throughout the year.

In addition to seminars, the Company publishes a number of technical bulletins and information bulletins detailing various technological and business issues relating to the industries in which it operates.

Patents and Trademarks 

The Company seeks to obtain patents to protect the novel features of its products and processes. The Company's subsidiaries hold 77 United States patents and 69 foreign patents. The Company's subsidiaries have 40 United States and 69 foreign patent applications pending. 

The Company and its subsidiaries have 77 trademarks registered in the United States, including logos for Astec, Astec Dillman, Carlson Paving, CEI, GEFCO, Heatec, JCI, Peterson Pacific, Roadtec, and Telsmith, and the names ASTEC, CARLSON, HEATEC, JCI, KOLBERG, PETERSON, ROADTEC and TELSMITH, as well as a number of other product names. The Company also has 88 trademarks registered in foreign jurisdictions, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Great Britain, India, Italy, Mexico, South Africa, South Korea, Thailand, Vietnam and the European Union. The Company and its subsidiaries have 4 United States and 13 foreign trademark registration applications pending.

Engineering and Product Development 

The Company dedicates substantial resources to engineering and product development. At December 31, 2015, the Company and its subsidiaries had 400 full-time individuals employed in engineering and design capacities.

Seasonality and Backlog 

Revenues for recent years, adjusted for acquisitions, have been strongest during the first half of the year, with the second half of the year consistently being weaker. We expect future operations in the near term to be typical of this historical trend.

As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had a backlog for delivery of products at certain dates in the future of approximately $313,291 and $332,051, respectively. The Company's contracts reflected in the backlog generally are not, by their terms, subject to termination. Management believes the Company is in substantial compliance with all manufacturing and delivery timetables.

Competition 

Each business segment operates in domestic markets that are highly competitive with respect to price, service and product quality. While specific competitors are named within each business segment discussion above, imports do not generally constitute significant competition for the Company in the United States, except for milling machines and track-mounted crushers. In international sales, however, the Company often competes with foreign manufacturers that may have a local presence in the market the Company is attempting to penetrate.

In addition, asphalt and concrete are generally considered competitive products as a surface choice for new roads and highways. A portion of the interstate highway system is paved in concrete, but over 90% of all surfaced roads in the United States are paved with asphalt. Although concrete is used for some new road surfaces, asphalt is used for most resurfacing.

Available Information 

The Company's internet website can be found at www.astecindustries.com. We make available, free of charge on or through our internet website, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained in our website is not part of, and is not incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

