 Item 1. Business

We are a public holding company organized under the laws of the State of Florida . We design and manufacture a line of specialty power failure lighting solutions and other innovative specialty consumer products for the North American and Global retail markets through our operating subsidiary. CIHK was established to expand our product development, engineering and factory resource capabilities in Hong Kong. Our product line consists of stylish, innovative and easy to use consumer lighting products, including power failure multi-function handheld lights, power failure multi-function nightlights and wall-plates, decorative nightlights, wireless motion sensor lights, remote control battery powered accent lights and remote control outlets. Our products are sold under CAPI brand name, "Capstone Lighting"and also under a nationally recognized licensed brand. We seek to deliver strong, consistent business results and superior shareholder returns by providing consumers on a global basis with unique products that make their lives simpler and safer.

We oversee the manufacturing of our products, which are currently all made in China by contract manufacturers, through our three wholly-owned operating subsidiaries: CAPI, CIHK and CLTL . 

Business Strategy

Our objective is to increase profitability, cash flow and revenues while enhancing our position as a leading manufacturer, marketer and distributor through the ongoing development of innovative and technologically advanced ideas and concepts for the LED Home Lighting consumer product categories. We plan to leverage our product successes by expanding our offerings into all categories of the LED Home Lighting product lines. We have established the 'Capstone Lighting' brand in the power failure and wireless motion sensor light product lines. To successfully enter into the expanded new Home LED product lines, we determined a highly recognized national brand could be advantageous. In 2014 the Company initiated a search for a brand name that would resonate with consumers. The desired brand had to have a rich heritage, trusted by American homeowners for high performance, quality and innovative products. With the brand name secured and marketing campaign finalized, the Company successfully launched its largest expansion of new products in the Company's history at the International Hardware Show in May 2015. The Company will continue its product expansion with major product releases scheduled for the International Hardware Show in May 2016. 

Our investment in AC Kinetic Technologies, an Armonk, New York technology development company, has allowed us to develop certain innovative concepts that the Company has conceived that are complex and that will hopefully yield intellectual property which will further distinguish the Company's products from other off-the-shelf products commonly marketed at retail. The Company plans to exploit the trade secret technologies developed by AC Kinetic Technologies within the Company's own products, both labeled under "Capstone" and under the new brand. The first of these products were introduced to the market in May 2015 at the International Hardware Show and are currently being reviewed by our retail customers . 

Perceived or Essential Strengths . We have extensive experience in introducing new products to retail market channels and believe that provides us a competitive edge. In our early development, we sought to find niche product opportunities that may have been overlooked or underexploited by competitors, in order to win a profitable niche of the market share with minimal cost of entry. In May 2016, the Company plans to launch another extensive array of new products at the International Hardware Show. The new products will not only introduce additional functionality to existing categories of products that are meaningful to consumers but will also seek to revitalize categories that have grown stale due to minimal investment and creativity by competitors. The Company's desired product(s) characteristics are as follows:

&#183;

Designed to make everyday tasks or usage simpler and more enjoyable for consumers;

&#183;

While continuing to focus on increased profit margins, the products must be affordable to win at the point of sale and deliver increased revenues for retail partners;

&#183;

The products must represent significant value when compared with items produced or marketed by competitive consumer product companies; and

&#183;

Wherever feasible, the products must be unique to the market whether this be accomplished though design techniques, added functionality or some proprietary innovation.

Due to the extensive, modern manufacturing, design and engineering capabilities in China, and the lower unit costs in China, we believe that it is more economical and efficient to continue to manufacture certain products in China and have them shipped to the United States rather than to have such products produced in North America. While this resource is available to and used by large numbers of U.S. companies, including our competitors, we believe this Chinese manufacturing resource gives us the level of production cost and quality that allows us to be competitive with larger competitors in the United States. However, as design technologies can influence the degree of hand labor in building its future products , the Company expects the advantages it has realized by manufacturing solely in China to be challenged. In these cases, the Company will evaluate production opportunities in the United States.

The Company has begun to utilize U.S. based industrial design support to augment the CIHK's Hong Kong based team, and to isolate and protect some of the Company's latest intellectual property or "IP". The Company has at the same time expanded CIHK's operations in Hong Kong, with additional personnel experienced in engineering and design, product development, international logistics and quality control. These associates work with our OEM Chinese factories to develop and prototype new product concepts and to ensure products meet Consumer Product Regulations and rigorous Quality Control standards. All products are tested before and during production by Company personnel. This team also provides extensive product development, quality control and logistics support to our factory partners to ensure on time shipments. The Company initiated its expansion in Hong Kong in 2013 as product line extensions and increased number of factories utilized became factors. In anticipation of the Company's expected growth we have continued our investment to ensure overseas factory performance meets stringent tolerances to maintain our competitiveness and operational excellence . 

We have expanded our international sales primarily by leveraging our relationships with our existing global retailers and by strengthening our international product offerings. With our Hong Kong office in place, they will assist us in placing more products into foreign market channels. This year we have surpassed our initial expansion goal with product sales in Australia, Canada, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. International sales represented 7% of total net revenue with 93% of net revenue originating from the United States.

Products and Customers

The Company has earned the recognition associated with being an innovative company as evidenced by the Company being invited to more retail buying reviews than earlier years when we were more focused on proving our ability to perform in the big box retail environment while supplying a short line of products. We are now determined to expand our product positioning through the introduction of many more indoor and new outdoor lighting programs both under the "Capstone" brand and the new licensed brand. We will also be adding hardwired solid state products to our programs in addition to the existing battery and induction powered product lines.

Since inception, we have focused on establishing and growing relationships with numerous leading international, national and regional retailers including but not limited to: Costco Wholesale, Home Depot, Lowes, Office Depot, Sam's Club, The Container Store, True Value, Wal-Mart , Canadian Tire and Amazon. These distribution channels may sell our products through the Internet as well as through retail storefronts and catalogs/mail order. Our experience in management, operations , and the export business has enabled us to develop the scale, manufacturing efficiencies , and design expertise that serves as the foundation for us to aggressively pursue niche product opportunities in our largest consumer markets and growing international market opportunities. While we have traditionally generated the majority of our sales in the domestic U.S. market, urbanization, rising family incomes and increased living standards abroad have spurred a perceived demand for small consumer appliances internationally. In order to capture this market opportunity, we introduced the Capstone brands to markets outside the U.S. including Central and South America, Taiwan, South Korea, Australia, Japan United Kingdom and Canada.

We believe CAPC is well positioned to become a leading manufacturer in the rapidly growing LED home lighting and security lighting segments. Our efforts to achieve such a goal are ongoing. Sluggish economic growth in North America in past two years and the global angst caused by a decline in the rate of Chinese economic growth in the past year are factors that hinder expansion in the consumer goods market. We believe we will maintain our revenue growth because of our ability to deliver products on time, the quality reputation of our products, our business relationships with our retailers and our aggressive product expansion strategies currently in place. Such continued progress depends on a number of assumptions and factors, including ones mentioned in "Risk Factors" below. Critical to growth are economic conditions in our markets that foster greater consumer spending as well as success in our initiatives to distinguish our brands from competitors by design, quality, and scope of functions and new technology or features.

With our new branded lighting categories, Capstone will have a comprehensive product offering for our niche in the industry. We believe that we will provide retailers with a broad and diversified portfolio of consumer products across numerous product categories, which will add diversity to our revenues and cash flows. Within these categories, we will service the needs of a wide range of consumers by providing products to satisfy their different interests, preferences and budgets.

We believe our ability to serve retailers with a broad array of branded products and quickly introduce new products will continue to allow us to further penetrate our existing customer bases, while also attracting new customers. Our primary, perceived challenge is creating sustained consumer demand for our products in a growing number of markets and attaining sustained profitability, which challenge is complicated by the cost of new product development and costs of penetrating new markets.

Sales and Marketing

CAPC's products are marketed primarily through a direct independent sales force, distributors and wholesalers. The sales force markets our products through numerous retail locations worldwide, including mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, food, drug and convenience stores, department stores and hardware centers. We actively promote our products to retailers and distributors at North American trade shows, but rely on the retail sales channels to advertise our products directly to the end consumer. Domestically and internationally, the sales teams market our full portfolio of product offerings. All sales activities at major account levels involve direct executive management participation. The Company will also be targeting direct to retail clients through CIHK for products that fall outside Capstone's branded categories but are innovative and preferably exclusive to CIHK. This should allow for quicker revenue expansion as time consuming product and brand development efforts are the responsibility of the retailer.

We depend on e-commerce efforts of Amazon and our retail customers in lieu of pursuing our own aggressive in-house e-commerce effort. We believe this reliance on Amazon and retail customer e-commerce is the most efficient and effective approach for the Company.

We maintain a Facebook website at https://www.facebook.com/powerfailuresolutions/ and our sales staff may use Social Media from time to time to promote our products and brands. We have not developed a Social Media campaign based on third party sponsors or promoters. 

Competitive Strengths

We believe that the following competitive strengths have and will continue to serve as a foundation for our business strategy:

In North America, we believe we are a leader in several categories, including power failure lights.

We believe that the specialized nature of our existing niche categories, and the market share that it has provided us will allow us to introduce and launch our new expanded LED Home Lighting programs.

We believe our licensed brand is a widely recognized domestic brand and is a household name that will translate into the innovative new LED products. Overall, we believe this strong brand recognition and consumer awareness, coupled with the quality of our products, will help promote significant customer loyalty for the innovative LED products that we will be launching. We will be providing retailers with a broad and diversified portfolio of consumer LED products across numerous product categories, which will add diversity to our revenues and cash flows. Within these categories, we service the needs of a wide range of consumers by providing products to satisfy their different interests, preferences and budgets.

Working Capital Requirements

The Company has reaffirmed its decision to extend its business model to expand distribution so that products can now be offered from our Anaheim, California warehouse for U.S. domestic shipments to such noted retailers as Home Depot, Office Depot, True Value and Wal-Mart for non-seasonal periods. This enables retailers to stock our products daily and replenish inventory based on rates of sale in their stores. The Company may require additional working capital to fund the cost of new product molds, product testing and certifications, package design work, expansion of the sales support team in the U.S. and further expansion of the design and engineering capabilities in our Hong Kong office to support expansion.

As required, additional funding options will be considered to ensure that product launches are never held back as a result of funding shortfalls. Certain members of Company's management and Board of Directors supplemented the cash flow needs as required through short term loans. Access to affordable, timely funding could be critical to our ability to compete and expand our market share. Our liquidity and cash requirements are discussed more fully in Part II, Item 6, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations below.

Competitive Conditions

The consumer products and small electronics businesses are highly competitive, both in the United States and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space. Competition is influenced by brand perceptions, product performance and value perception, customer service and price. Our principal lighting competitors in the U.S. are Jasco, Energizer and Sylvania. We believe private-label sales by large retailers has some impact on the market in some parts of the world as many national retailers such as Target, Wal-Mart, Home Depot, and Costco offer lighting as part of their private branded product lines. Many of competitors have substantially greater resources and capabilities, including greater brand recognition, research and development budgets and broader geographical market reach. Competitors with greater resources could undermine our expansion efforts by marketing campaigns targeting our expansion efforts or price competition.

With trends and technology continually changing, CAPC will continue to endeavor to invest and rapidly develop new products that are competitively priced with consumer centric features and benefits easily articulated to influence point of sale decision making. Success in the markets we serve depends upon product innovation, pricing, retailer support, responsiveness, and cost management. We continue to invest in developing the technologies and design critical to competing in our markets as evidenced by our investment in AC Kinetic Technologies. Our ability to invest is limited by operational cash flow and funding from third parties, including members of management and the Board of Directors.

Raw Materials

The principal raw materials used by the Company are sourced in China, as we manufacture our products exclusively through contract manufacturers in the region. Raw materials used in manufacturing include plastic resin, copper, led bulbs, batteries, and corrugated paper. Prices of materials have remained lower and competitive in the last year as a result of lower oil prices and the strengthening U.S. dollar. CAPC believes that adequate supplies of raw materials required for its operations are available at the present time. CAPC, cannot predict the future availability or prices of such materials. These raw materials are generally available from a number of different sources, and the prices of those raw materials are susceptible to currency fluctuations and price fluctuations due to transportation, government regulations, price controls, economic climate, or other unforeseen circumstances. In the past, CAPC has not experienced any significant interruption in availability of raw materials. We believe we have extensive experience in manufacturing and have taken positions to assure supply and to protect margins on anticipated sales volume. Our Hong Kong office is responsible for developing and sourcing finished products from Asia in order to grow and diversify our product portfolio. Quality testing for these products is performed both by our Hong Kong office and by our globally recognized third party quality testing labo ratories. 

Section 1502 of Title XV of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires SEC-reporting companies to disclose annually whether any conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of a product. Based on our inquiries to our manufacturers, we do not believe as of the date of such inquiries that any conflict minerals are used in making our products.

Seasonality

Sales for household products and electronics are seasonally influenced, with increased purchases by consumers during the key holiday winter season of the fourth fiscal quarter, which requires increases in retailer inventories during the third fiscal quarter. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes can create conditions that drive increased needs for portable power and spike power failure light sales. Many retailers now recognize a storm preparedness period and the Company believes that it is well positioned to gain market share in these sales periods. The Company's "Power Failure Solutions" products support this growing awareness.

Management expects that the new LED Home Lighting product offerings will not be as influenced by seasonal factors and will provide a more balanced revenue stream during the year once programs are executed fully at retail.

Intellectual Property

CAPC subsidiary, CAPI , owns a number of U.S. trademarks and patents which CAPC considers of substantial importance and which are used individually or in conjunction with other CAPC trademarks and patents. These include the following trademarks: Timely Reader, Pathway Lights, Timely Reader Booklights with Timer and Auto Shut Off and 10 LED - Eco-i-Lite Power Failure Light, 5 LED - Eco-i-Lite Power Failure Light, 3 LED - Eco-i-Lite Power Failure Light, 3 LED Slim line Eco-i-Lite Power Failure Light, LED Induction Charged Headlight. CAPC periodically prepares patent and trademark applications for filing in the United States and China. CAPC will also pursue foreign patent protection in foreign countries if deemed necessary. CAPC's ability to compete effectively in the power failure, portable lighting , and LED Home Lighting categories depends in part, on its ability to maintain the proprietary nature of its technology and manufacturing processes through a combination of patent and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements, licensing, and cross-licensing agreements. CAPC owns a number of patents, trademarks , trademark and patent applications and other technology which CAPC believes are significant to its business. These relate primarily to lighting device improvements and manufacturing processes.

Value of Patents . The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Issued patents or patents based on pending patent applications or any future patent applications may not exclude competitors or may not provide a competitive advantage to us. In addition, patents issued or licensed to us may not be held valid if subsequently challenged and others may claim rights in or ownership of such patents. The validity and breadth of claims in technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, the extent of their enforceability and protection is highly uncertain. 

Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us. We cannot assure shareholders that our competitors have not developed or will not develop similar products, will not duplicate our products, or will not design around any patents issued to or licensed by us. We will assess any loss of these rights and determine whether to litigate to protect our intellectual property rights on a case by case basis.

We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent , and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be effectively utilized or, if necessary, successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own intellectual property rights, or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights from others to support new product introductions. There can be no assurance that w e can acquire licenses under patents belonging to others for technology potentially useful or necessary to us and there can be no assurance that such licenses will be available to us, if at all, on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any patent issued to or licensed by us will not be infringed or circumvented by others , or will not be successfully challenged by others in lawsuits . &#160; We do not have a reserve for litigation costs associated with intellectual property matters. 

Distribution and Fulfillment

Since January 2015, the Company has transferred its U . S . domestic warehousing and distribution needs to a third party warehousing facility situated in Anaheim, California. The warehouse distributor provides full inventory storage, packaging and logistics services including direct to store and direct to consumer shipping capabilities that electronically interface to our existing operations software. The Company provides full ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning), Inventory Control and Warehouse Management Systems. These fulfillment services can be expanded to the east coast in Charleston, South Carolina, if we need to establish an east coast distribution point. This relationship will provide, if fully utilized, a major expansion of our U.S. distribution capabilities.

Research, Product Development, and Manufacturing Activities

Our research and development department based in Hong Kong designs and engineers many of our products, with collaboration from our third party manufacturing partners. They also establish strict engineering specifications and product testing protocols for our factories and ensure the factories adhere to all Chinese Labor and Social Compliance Laws. Under the current political regime in China, sudden and unexpected changes in such laws are possible.

Our research and development team ensures our proprietary manufacturing expertise by maintaining control over all outsourced production and critical production molds. In order to ensure the quality and consistency of our products manufactured in Asia, we use globally recognized certified testing laboratories such as United Laboratories (UL) or Intertek (ETL) to ensure all products are designed and tested to adhere to each countries individual regulatory standards. We also employ quality control inspectors who examine and test products to our specification before shipments are approved. Our Hong Kong office capabilities have now been expanded to include product development, project management, sourcing management, supply chain logistics , factory compliance auditing , and quality enforcement for all supplier factories located in Hong Kong and mainland China.

We will continue to invest in this area as we expand the number of products being developed and as we move into more technical and innovative product categories. These costs are expensed when incurred and are included in the operating expenses.

Information Technology

In the normal course of business, we receive information regarding customers, associates , and &#160; vendors. Since we do not collect significant amounts of valuable personal data or sensitive business data from others, our internal computer systems are under a light to moderate level of risk from hackers or other individuals with malicious intent to gain unauthorized access to our computer systems. Cyberattacks are growing in number and sophistication and are an ongoing threat to business computer systems, which are used to operate the business on a day to day basis. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to security breaches, computer viruses, or other events. Any security breach or event resulting in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or degradation of services provided by critical business systems, whether by us directly or our third-party service providers, could adversely affect our business operations, sales, reputation with current and potential customers, associates or vendors, as well as other operational and financial impacts derived from investigations, litigation, imposition of penalties, or other means.

Employees

We employed 7 employees as of December 31, 2015 in our U.S. office and 7 employees in our Hong Kong operation. We consider our relations with our employees to be good with none of our employees being subject to collective bargaining agreements. We have no part-time workers.

The following table sets forth the number of employees by function:

Employee Function

Number of Employees

Executive

Sales/Customer Service/Distribution

Research &#38; Development/Technology/Product Development

Administrative

TOTAL

12

Prior History

We were incorporated on September 18, 1986 as a Delaware corporation. Our initial public offering under the Securities Act was conducted in 1987. We started as a blank check company. From 1986 until the 2006 acquisition of CAPI, we experienced several changes in management, corporate name , and primary business lines , as well as reincorporation from Delaware to Colorado and then from Colorado to Florida in 2004. We have had a stable management and business line since the acquisition of CAPI in 2006.

Acquisition of CAPI: on September 15, 2006, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with CAPI and Stewart Wallach, the sole shareholder, a director and a senior executive officer of CAPI. Under the Stock Purchase Agreement, we acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of CAPI Common Stock in exchange for $750,000 in cash (funded by the previously reported credit line provided by certain directors of CAPC) and $1.25 million in Series B Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value per share, which Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into 15.625 million "restricted" shares of our Common Stock, $0.0001 par value . &#160; On July 9, 2009, the outstanding Series B Preferred Shares were converted to Series B-1 Preferred Shares. The Series B-1 shares are convertible into Common Stock; at a rate of 66.66 of common shares for each share of Series B-1. On December 17, 2009, the outstanding Series B-1 shares were converted into common stock.

Available Information

We file our financial information and other materials electronically with the SEC. These materials can be accessed electronically via the Internet at www.sec.gov. Such materials and other information about the Company are also available through our website at www.capstonecompaniesinc.com . 

Government Regulation

CAPC's operations are subject to regulation by federal and state securities authorities as well as various federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations governing a consumer products company and a for-profit business. We are not subject to any U.S. federal, state or local regulation that poses, in our opinion, any special or unusual burden or obstacle to conducting our business and financial affairs. Our main concern in terms of government regulation is the changing regulatory environment in China and its impact on our ability to access our consumer product manufacturing sources and obtain our consumer products. While the general trend in China has to be conducive to trade and commerce, China is a still a single-party nation-state in which the central government has the power to dramatically and immediately change its trade and commercial policies and laws. Political or military conflict between the United States and China, who are rivals for power and influence in Asia and to an increasing extent all along the Pacific Rim as well as being diametrically opposed to one another over the status of Taiwan, could provoke a change in Chinese trade or commercial law that makes it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain consumer products. Such a development would have a serious impact on our ability to compete in the United States in the niche consumer product market.

The 2012 JOBS Act . We qualify as an "emerging growth company," as defined in Title I of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the "JOBS Act"). An emerging growth company is defined as an issuer, including a foreign private issuer, with less than $1 billion of total annual gross revenues during the most recently completed fiscal year. The SEC has interpreted "total annual gross revenues" to mean total revenues as presented on the income statement presentation under U.S. GAAP, which for the Company was $15.9 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015. We will retain our status as an emerging growth company until the earlier of: (1) the fifth anniversary of the date we first sell securities pursuant to an IPO registration statement; (2) the last day of the fiscal year in which we first exceed $1 billion in annual gross revenues; (3) the time we become a large accelerated filer (an SEC registered company with a public float of at least $700 million); or (4) the date on which we have issued, within the previous three years, $1 billion of nonconvertible debt, whether issued in a registered or unregistered offering and whether or not it is still outstanding at the determination date.

The JOBS Act provides scaled disclosure provisions for us, including, among other things: (a) permitting us to include only two years of audited financial statements in a registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933 for an IPO of common equity securities; (b) allowing us to comply with the smaller reporting company version of Item 402 of Regulation S-K (Executive Compensation); and (c) removing the requirement that our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The JOBS Act also exempts us from the following additional compensation-related disclosure provisions that were imposed on U.S. public companies pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act: the advisory "say-on-pay" vote on executive compensation required under Section 14A(a) of the Exchange Act; the Section 14A(b) requirements relating to shareholder advisory votes on golden parachute compensation; the Section 14(i) requirements for disclosure relating to the relationship between executive compensation and financial performance of the issuer; and the requirement of Dodd-Frank Act Section 953(b)(1), which will require disclosure as to the relationship between CEO and median employee pay.

Under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act, "emerging growth companies" can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. However, we have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this extended transition period for compliance with new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not "emerging growth companies."

Financing

On September 8, &#160; 2010, in order to support working capital needs, CAPI secured a Financing Agreement from Sterling Capital Funding (now called Sterling National Bank) ("Sterling"), located in New York, whereby CAPI receives funds for assigned retailer shipments. The assignments provide funding for an amount up to 85% of net invoices submitted. There will be a base management fee equal to .45% of the gross invoice amount. The interest rate of the loan advance is &#188;% above Sterling National Bank Base Rate, which at the time of closing was 5%. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the balance due to Sterling was $2,275,534 and $286,945 respectively

In July, 2011, Stewart Wallach, the Chief Executive Officer and Director of CAPC and JWTR Holdings, L.L.C. , a company owned by a CAPC director, Jeffrey Postal, entered into a Securities and Notes Payable Agreement with Howard Ullman, the previous Chairman of the Board of CAPC, whereby they would purchase equally all of Howard Ullmans notes . 

On July 12, 2011, Stewart Wallach agreed to be the sole personal guarantor to Sterling for all of Capstone Industries, Inc. loans.

Effective July 12, 2011, Capstone Industries, Inc., credit line with Sterling was increased from $2,000,000 to $4,000,000 to provide additional funding for increased revenue growth.

Effective October 1, 2011, Sterling Capital Funding conducted business as the Factoring and Trade Division of Sterling National Bank. All obligations under our agreements have been assigned to Sterling National Bank.

Effective December 2, 2013, Capstone Industries, Inc., credit line with Sterling was further increased from $4,000,000 up to $6,000,000 to provide additional funding for increased revenue during the fourth quarter. The credit line reverted back to $4,000,000 on February 28 th , 2014. On July 1 st 2014, this line was further increased up to $7,000,000 to support increased fourth quarter revenue. As of December 31, 2015, the maximum amount that can be borrowed under on this credit line was $7,000,000.

