 ITEM 1. &#32; BUSINESS &#32; 

Overview 

We are an innovative medical device company that is designing, developing and commercializing exoskeletons that allow wheelchair-bound individuals with mobility impairments or other medical conditions the ability to stand and walk once again. We have developed and are continuing to commercialize ReWalk, an exoskeleton that uses our patented tilt-sensor technology and an on-board computer and motion sensors to drive motorized legs that power movement. 

Current ReWalk designs are intended for people with paraplegia, a spinal cord injury resulting in complete or incomplete paralysis of the legs, who have the use of their upper bodies and arms. We currently offer two products: ReWalk Personal and ReWalk Rehabilitation. ReWalk Personal is designed for everyday use by individuals at home and in their communities, and is custom fitted for each user. ReWalk Rehabilitation is designed for the clinical rehabilitation environment where it provides valuable exercise and therapy. It also enables individuals to evaluate their capacity for using ReWalk Personal in the future. In 2011, we launched ReWalk Rehabilitation for use in hospitals and rehabilitation centers in the United States, Europe and Asia. We began marketing ReWalk Personal in Europe with CE mark clearance at the end of 2012 and received U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, clearance to market it in the United States in June 2014. ReWalk is the first exoskeleton cleared by the FDA for personal use. In September 2013, we received clearance to sell ReWalk in Canada and, in January 2015, we received regulatory approval to distribute ReWalk systems in Australia from the Therapeutic Goods Administration, or the TGA. In the future, we will need to obtain approval from the applicable regulatory agency of any additional jurisdiction in which we seek to market ReWalk. 

ReWalk is a breakthrough product that can fundamentally change the health and life experiences of users. ReWalk is currently the only commercialized exoskeleton using a tilt sensor to restore self-initiated walking. Designed for all-day use, ReWalk is battery-powered and consists of a light, wearable exoskeleton with integrated motors at the joints, an array of sensors and a computer-based control system to power knee and hip movement. ReWalk controls movement using subtle shifts in the user&#8217;s center of gravity. A forward tilt of the upper body is sensed by the system, which initiates the first step. Repeated body shifting generates a sequence of steps which allows for natural gait with functional walking speed. Because the exoskeleton supports its own weight and facilitates the user&#8217;s natural gait, users do not expend unnecessary energy while walking. While ReWalk does not allow side-to-side actuation, users are able to turn by shifting their weight to the side. ReWalk also allows users to sit, stand and, depending on local regulatory approvals, climb and descend stairs. ReWalk users are able to independently operate the devices, and most are able to put on and remove the devices by themselves. However, our safety guidelines and FDA specifications require users to be accompanied by a trained companion. 

Published clinical studies demonstrate ReWalk&#8217;s ability to deliver a natural gait and functional walking speed, which has not been shown in studies for any competing exoskeleton. In addition, our interim analysis of an ongoing clinical study and our experience working with health care practitioners and ReWalk users suggests that ReWalk has the potential to provide secondary health benefits. These benefits include reducing pain and spasticity and improving bowel and urinary tract function, body and bone composition, metabolism and physical fitness, as well as reducing hospitalizations and dependence on medications. Because of these secondary medical benefits, we believe that ReWalk has the ability to reduce the lifetime healthcare costs of individuals with spinal cord injuries, making it economically attractive for individuals and third-party payors. While we believe that ReWalk offers significant advantages over competing technologies and therapies, disadvantages include the time it takes for a user to put on ReWalk, the slower pace of ReWalk compared to a wheelchair, the weight of ReWalk when carried, which makes it more burdensome for a companion to transport than a wheelchair, and the requirement that users be accompanied by a trained companion. 

Development of ReWalk took over a decade and was spurred by the experiences of our founder, Dr. Amit Goffer, who became a quadriplegic due to an accident. As of December 31, 2015, we had placed 104 units in use at rehabilitation centers and 107 in a home or community use. 

Our commercialization strategy is to penetrate rehabilitation centers, hospitals and similar facilities that treat patients with spinal cord injuries to become an integral part of their rehabilitation programs and to develop a broad based training network with these facilities to prepare users for home and community use. According to the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center, 87% of persons with spinal cord injuries are sent to private, non-institutional residences (in most cases, their homes) after hospital discharge. As a result, while almost half of our sales to date have been for use in a Rehabilitation setting, the primary focus of our commercialization efforts going forward will be marketing ReWalk Personal for routine use at home, work or in the community, and we expect sales of ReWalk Personal to account for the substantial majority of our revenues in the future. 

We expect to generate revenues from a combination of third-party payors, self-payors and institutions. While no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors currently exists for electronic exoskeleton technologies such as ReWalk, we plan to pursue various paths of reimbursement and support fundraising efforts by institutions and clinics. In December 2015, the Veterans&#8217; Administration, or the VA, issued a national policy for the evaluation, training and procurement of ReWalk 

Personal exoskeleton systems for all qualifying veterans across the United States. The VA policy, which is exclusive to ReWalk Robotics exoskeleton systems, is the first national coverage policy in the United States for qualifying individuals who have suffered spinal cord injury. Additionally, to date several private insurers in the United States and Europe have provided reimbursement for ReWalk in certain cases. 

Overview of Spinal Anatomy and Spinal Cord Injury 

Spinal Anatomy 

The spine is the central core of the human skeleton and provides structural support, alignment and flexibility to the body. It consists of 24 interlocking bones, called vertebrae, which are stacked on top of one another. The spine is comprised of five regions, of which there are three primary regions: cervical, thoracic and lumbar. In addition, there is also the sacral region, or sacrum, a triangular-shaped bone and the coccyx, or &#8220;tailbone,&#8221; the bottom portion of the spine. 

The spinal cord, housed inside the bony spinal column, is a complex bundle of nerves serving as the main pathway for information connecting the brain and nervous system. The spinal cord is divided into 31 segments that feed sensory impulses into the spinal cord, which in turn relays them to the brain. Conversely, motor impulses generated in the brain are relayed by the spinal cord to the spinal nerves, which pass the impulses to muscles and glands. The spinal cord mediates the reflex responses to some sensory impulses directly, without recourse to the brain, for example, when a person&#8217;s leg is tapped, producing the knee jerk reflex. 

Spinal Cord Injury 

&#160; 

Spinal cord injury is the result of a direct trauma to the nerves themselves or damage to the surrounding bones and soft tissues which ultimately impacts the spinal cord. Spinal cord damage results in a loss of function, such as mobility or feeling. In most people who have spinal cord injury, the spinal cord is intact. Spinal cord injury is not the same as back injury, which may result from pinched nerves or ruptured disks. Even when a person sustains a break in a vertebra or vertebrae, there may not be any spinal cord injury if the spinal cord itself is not affected. There are two types of spinal cord injury &#8211; complete and incomplete. In a complete injury, a person loses all ability to feel and voluntarily move below the level of the injury. In an incomplete injury, there is some functioning below the level of the injury. 

Upon examination, a patient is assigned a level of injury depending on the location of the spinal cord injury. Cervical level injuries cause paralysis or weakness in both arms and legs and is referred to as quadriplegia. Sometimes this type of injury is accompanied by loss of physical sensation, respiratory issues, bowel, bladder, and sexual dysfunction. Thoracic level injuries can cause paralysis or weakness of the legs (paraplegia) along with loss of physical sensation, bowel, bladder, and sexual dysfunction. In most cases, arms and hands are not affected. Lumbar level injuries result in paralysis or weakness of the legs (paraplegia). Loss of physical sensation, bowel, bladder, and sexual dysfunction can occur. The shoulder, arm, and hand functions are usually unaffected. Sacral level injuries primarily cause loss of bowel and bladder function as well as sexual dysfunction. 

&#160; 

Image of Separated Spinal Cord of an Adult 

The history of exoskeleton development began in the 19 th century, with the first patent for a mechanical suit appearing in 1890. The use of motors and gears to power these suits is not new, with General Electric developing an early exoskeleton device in the 1960s. Called the Hardiman, it was a hydraulic and electric body suit, but its weight and bulk made practical use prohibitive. Innovation of an advanced exoskeleton that restores a natural walking experience has been a key technological goal of the industry, and the lack of such a system has hindered sector growth. Advances in computer hardware and software and proprietary technological breakthroughs pioneered by us have resulted in the development of an advanced exoskeleton, ReWalk, that restores walking with a natural gait and functional speed. 

&#160; Market Opportunity 

Confinement to a wheelchair can cause severe physical and psychological deterioration, resulting in bad health, poor quality of life, low self-esteem and high medical expenses. In addition, the secondary medical consequences of paralysis can include difficulty with bowel and urinary tract function, osteoporosis, loss of lean mass, gain in fat mass, insulin resistance, diabetes and heart disease. The cost of treating these conditions is substantial. The National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center, or the NSCISC, estimates that complications related to paraplegia cost, excluding indirect costs such as losses in wages, fringe benefits and productivity, approximately $500,000 in the first year post-injury and significant additional amounts over the course of an individual&#8217;s lifetime. Further, secondary complications related to spinal cord injury can reduce life expectancies for spinal cord injury, or SCI, patients. 

The NSCISC estimates as of 2014 that there were 276,000 people in the United States living with spinal cord injury, with an annual incidence of approximately 12,500 new cases per year. Approximately 42,000 of such patients are veterans, and are eligible for medical care and other benefits from the VA. With 24 VA spinal cord injury centers, the VA has the largest single network of spinal cord injury care in the United States. 

The University of Alabama-Birmingham Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation operates the NSCISC, which maintains the world&#8217;s largest database on spinal cord injury research. Between September 2005 and March 2015, motor vehicle crashes have been the leading cause of reported spinal cord injury cases (39%), followed by falls (30%), acts of violence (14%) and sports injuries (8%). Nearly 80% of spinal cord injuries occur among the male population. According to NSCISC data, upon hospital discharge, 87% of persons with spinal cord injuries are sent to private, non-institutional residence (in most cases, their homes prior to injury). 

Three published ReWalk trials for SCI patients had an aggregate screening acceptance rate of 81%, when exclusions due to logistics, scheduling and weight were removed. The weight exclusion can be considered potentially short term addressable, as focus was on determining medical exclusions such as insufficient bone material density. This indicates that approximately 80% of the SCI population could be candidates for current or future ReWalk products. The young average age at time of injury and significant remaining life expectancy, the likelihood of living at home and lifetime cost of treatment highlight the need for an out-of-hospital solution with demonstrated health and social benefits. 

In addition to developing the next generation of ReWalk, we are currently engaged in research and development efforts to adapt ReWalk to address the mobility needs of multiple sclerosis and stroke patients. 

According to the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation, as many as 400,000 Americans suffer from multiple sclerosis. Research indicates that approximately half of these individuals would be classified as somewhere between a 4.0 and a 7.0 on the Kurtzke Disability Status Scale (DSS), a measure of the need for walking assistance. Individuals with DSS 4.0 suffer from relatively severe disability while individuals with DSS 7.0 are generally restricted to a wheelchair. Multiple sclerosis is a progressive disease, as approximately one-third of multiple sclerosis patients end up with full paralysis while two-thirds remain able to walk, though many will need an aid, such as a cane or crutches, and some will use a scooter or wheelchair due to fatigue, weakness or balance problems, or due to a need to conserve energy. 

Over five million Americans have suffered a stroke, with 780,000 new incidences expected each year. Physical limitations after stroke vary from case to case, but approximately 60% of these individuals will have lower limb disability, which could require them to seek additional assistance in walking. 

Our Solutions 

ReWalk is a breakthrough product that can fundamentally change the quality of life for individuals with lower limb disability through the creation and development of market leading robotic technologies. Published clinical studies demonstrate ReWalk&#8217;s ability to deliver a natural gait and functional walking speed. ReWalk&#8217;s patented tilt-sensor technology and an on-board computer and motion sensors drive motorized legs that power knee and hip movement and allow self-initiated walking. ReWalk controls movement using subtle changes in the user&#8217;s center of gravity. A forward tilt of the upper body is sensed by the system, which initiates the first step. Repeated body shifting generates a sequence of steps, which allows natural ambulation with functional walking speed. While ReWalk does not allow side-to-side actuation, users are able to turn by shifting their weight to the side. ReWalk also allows users to sit, stand and, depending on local regulatory approvals, climb and descend stairs. Use on stairs is not cleared by the FDA in the United States. 

Designed for all-day use and worn over the clothes of users, ReWalk consists of a light wearable exoskeleton with integrated motors at the joints, an array of sensors and a backpack or waist pack that contains the batteries and the computer-based control system. The control system utilizes proprietary algorithms to analyze upper-body motions and trigger and maintain gait patterns and other modes of operation (such as stair-climbing and shifting from sitting to standing), leaving the user&#8217;s hands free for self-support and other functions. Because the exoskeleton supports its own weight, users do not expend unnecessary energy while walking. Safety measures include crutches, which provide additional stability, fall protection, which lowers users slowly and safely in the event of a malfunction, and the secure &#8220;stand&#8221; mode, which automatically initiates if the user does not begin walking within 

two seconds. ReWalk is also equipped with maintenance alarms, warnings and backup batteries. The rechargeable batteries are easily accessible and can be recharged in any standard power outlet. Upon completion of training, which generally consists of approximately 15 one-hour sessions, most users are able to put on and remove the device by themselves while sitting, typically in less than 15 minutes. 

Current ReWalk designs are intended for people with paraplegia who have the use of their upper bodies and arms. We currently offer two ReWalk products: ReWalk Personal and ReWalk Rehabilitation. For a breakdown of our revenues from sales of each of ReWalk Personal and ReWalk Rehabilitation, see Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

&#160; 

&#160; 

ReWalk Personal 6.0 

&#8226; ReWalk Personal : intended for everyday use at home, at work or in the community. We began marketing ReWalk Personal in Europe with CE mark clearance at the end of 2012. We received clearance to market ReWalk Personal in the United States in June 2014. ReWalk Personal units are all manufactured according to the same specifications. Each unit is then permanently sized to fit the individual user and the software is configured for the user&#8217;s specifications by the rehabilitation center, clinic or distributor. 

&#8226; ReWalk Rehabilitation : designed for the clinical rehabilitation environment, ReWalk Rehabilitation has adjustable sizing enabling multiple patient use. ReWalk Rehabilitation provides a valuable means of exercise and therapy. It also enables individuals to evaluate their capacity for using ReWalk Personal in the future. We began marketing ReWalk Rehabilitation for use in hospitals, rehabilitation centers and stand-alone training centers in the United States, Europe and Asia in 2011. ReWalk Rehabilitation units are all manufactured according to the same specifications and are equipped with adjustable sizing for multi-patient use. 

&#160; 

Our interim analysis of an ongoing clinical study and our experience working with health care practitioners and ReWalk users suggest that ReWalk has the potential to provide secondary health benefits. These benefits include reducing pain and spasticity and improving bowel and urinary tract function, body and bone composition, metabolism and physical fitness, as well as reducing hospitalizations and dependence on medications. Because of these secondary medical benefits, we believe that ReWalk has the ability to reduce the lifetime healthcare costs of individuals with spinal cord injuries, making it economically attractive for individuals, healthcare providers such as hospitals and rehabilitation centers, and third-party payors. 

We intend to continue to develop future generations of ReWalk, with a range of improvements including additional functionality, more efficient drive mechanism, slimmer profile and lighter body, as well as other improvements. We plan to expand the designs and indications that we address beyond paraplegia to include other disabilities affecting gait and ability to walk, such as multiple sclerosis, stroke and cerebral palsy. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Third-Party Reimbursements &#32; 

United States 

In the United States, purchasers of ReWalk Rehabilitation have received reimbursement in certain cases. Private rehabilitation centers generally purchase ReWalk Rehabilitation out-of-pocket and then charge patients for ReWalk therapy on a per-session basis. Patients can then seek reimbursement from their insurance companies. Academic facilities such as teaching hospitals generally purchase ReWalk Rehabilitation out-of-pocket and provide patients the opportunity to use the ReWalk without charging for each session. These institutions may then seek reimbursement from insurance companies and may be willing to accept lower reimbursement rates than private facilities due to fewer pricing pressures. 

In December 2015, the VA issued a national policy for the evaluation, training and procurement of ReWalk Personal exoskeleton systems for all qualifying veterans across the United States. The VA policy, which is exclusive to ReWalk Robotics exoskeleton systems, is the first national coverage policy in the United States for qualifying individuals who have suffered spinal cord injury. 

While in some cases insurance companies have provided reimbursement for ReWalk Rehabilitation upon request, certain insurance companies view ReWalk as an experimental therapy and therefore will not provide coverage at this time. Medicaid and Medicare have provided reimbursement for ReWalk Rehabilitation sessions, although this coverage may have limits in terms of number or frequency of sessions. Worker&#8217;s Compensation has also provided reimbursement. 

Private insurance companies do not currently cover or provide reimbursement for any personal medical exoskeleton products, including ReWalk Personal, and are limited to case-by-case decisions. 

As part of our plan for growth, we intend to work with ReWalk users, health care practitioners, researchers, and the spinal cord injury community to support efforts to demonstrate to insurance companies the health benefits and the economic case for reimbursement of ReWalk Personal. Initially, coverage from private payers will be made on a case-by-case basis. Once a sufficient number of these cases have been approved, applications for local coverage decisions from the private payers will be made. We currently sponsor clinical studies and academic publications that demonstrate the medical benefits of ReWalk. In the future, we will pursue economic benefit clinical studies for the Centers for Medicare/Medicaid Services, or CMS, which would demonstrate the secondary medical benefits and long-term cost savings potential of ReWalk. We believe that a positive response from CMS in respect of such studies will broaden coverage by private insurers. We expect that it could take three to five years to receive a decision from CMS, but we believe that other sources of payment will be sufficient to support our business. 

Western Europe 

Reimbursement for ReWalk in Europe varies by country. While we are not aware of any public or private payor that regularly covers ReWalk for rehabilitation or personal use, third-party payors have provided reimbursement for our products in certain cases in Germany, France and Italy. 

We are initially focusing our efforts in Europe in Germany, which has a single-payer system and where we believe we have made significant progress toward achieving ReWalk coverage from the government. Because ReWalk is not currently covered in Germany, a patient who wishes to use ReWalk must apply for coverage and receive an official denial. He or she must then appeal the decision in court, relying on supporting documentation from a health care provider and other medical evidence. There are approximately 61 such cases pending in Germany, and we believe that these will result in eventual coverage. We plan to continue to pursue this case-by-case strategy and expect that once the precedent for coverage is established, seeking coverage will become easier and more routine. We continue to support clinical research and academic publications, which we believe will further support the case for coverage. 

We are also pursuing reimbursement by private insurers and worker&#8217;s compensation in various European countries. 

Other Funding Sources &#32; 

In addition to being funded by third-party payors, including private insurance plans, government programs such as the VA, and Worker's Compensation, ReWalk is also funded by self-payers. Self-payers also include individuals who purchase ReWalk with funds from legal settlements with insurance companies or third parties. 

&#160; 

Research and Development 

We are committed to investing in a robust research and development program to enhance our current ReWalk products and to develop our pipeline of new and complementary products, and we believe that ongoing research and development efforts are essential to our success. Our research and development team includes engineers, machinists, researchers, marketing, quality, manufacturing, regulatory and clinical personnel, who work closely together to design, enhance and validate our technologies. This research and development team conceptualizes technologies and then builds and tests prototypes before refining and/or redesigning as necessary. Our regulatory and clinical personnel work in parallel with engineers and researchers, allowing us to anticipate and resolve potential issues at early stages in the development cycle. 

We plan to increase our investment in research and development in the future by continually improving our functional technological platform, developing our next generation of ReWalk with design improvements and building upon our technological platform to address new medical indications that affect the ability to walk such as quadriplegia, multiple sclerosis, stroke and cerebral palsy. 

We conduct our research and development efforts at our facility in Yokneam, Israel. We believe that the close interaction among our research and development, marketing and manufacturing groups allows for timely and effective realization of our new product concepts. 

&#160; 

Our research and development efforts have been financed, in part, through funding from the Office of the Chief Scientist in the Israel Ministry of Economy, or the OCS, and from the BIRD Foundation. From our inception through December 31, 2015, we received funding totaling $740,000 from the OCS and $500,000 from the BIRD Foundation. Our research and development expenses, net were approximately $5.9 million, $8.6 million and $2.5 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015, December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively. For more information regarding our research and development financing arrangements and expenses, see Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Components of Our Statements of Operations - Operating Expenses," "&#8212;Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8221; and &#8220;&#8212;Grants and Other Funding.&#8221; 

In September 2013, we entered into a strategic alliance with Yaskawa Electric Corporation, pursuant to which, among other arrangements, Yaskawa can apply its expertise in product and quality improvements to ReWalk. Yaskawa is a global leader in the fields of industrial robotics and automation, and we believe that this relationship provides us with opportunities for product improvement and increased product offerings in the future. For more information regarding our relationship with Yaskawa, see &#8220;&#8212;Sales and Marketing&#8221; and Item 13. &#8220;Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.&#8221; 

Clinical Studies 

There have been multiple clinical studies to establish the effectiveness and benefits of ReWalk for individuals with spinal cord injuries that have resulted in publications in peer-reviewed journals, as follows: 

&#8226; 

The first study, published in The Journal of Spinal Cord Medicine &#32;in 2012, included six participants and was designed to assess the safety and tolerance of use of ReWalk by patients with a spinal cord injury. The participants were all able to walk 100 meters with ReWalk. The study found no adverse safety events (which included falls, status of the skin, status of the spine and joints, blood pressure, pulse and electrocardiography) and concluded that use of ReWalk was well-tolerated by participants with no increase in pain and a moderate level of fatigue after use. The participants generally had positive feedback regarding ReWalk. No adverse effects were noted. 

&#8226; 

The second study included 24 participants and was designed to assess the safety and performance of ReWalk in enabling individuals with paraplegia to carry out routine ambulatory functions. Results with respect to a 12-participant subset were published in the American Journal of Physical Medicine &#38; Rehabilitation &#32;in 2012. The results from this subset demonstrated that all participants were able to independently walk, without assistance from another person, for at least 50 meters and at least five minutes. Some participants reported improvements in pain, bowel function, bladder function and spasticity. All participants had strong positive feedback regarding the emotional and psychosocial benefits of using ReWalk. ReWalk was found to hold significant potential as a safe ambulatory powered orthotic for spinal cord injury patients. Significant performance variability was noted between participants. There were no serious adverse events reported. Five participants reported mild to moderate adverse effects, consisting of skin abrasions, lightheadedness and edema of the lower limbs. These adverse effects were managed by the appropriate use of padding, caffeine intake and adjustment of blood pressure medication, elastic stockings and rest. 

&#8226; 

The third study, published in The Journal of Spinal Cord Medicine &#32;in 2013, included six participants and found that participants with spinal cord injury, walking independently with ReWalk, demonstrated a stance and gait similar to that of an able-bodied individual. No adverse effects were noted. 

&#8226; 

The fourth study, which is ongoing and includes 30 participants, was designed to assess the mobility skills and levels of training and assistance needed to use and benefit from ReWalk. Results with respect to a seven-participant subset 

have been finalized and were presented at the STO Human Factors and Medicine Panel Symposium , Milan, Italy, in 2013. The results from this subset demonstrated that over the course of the training, all of the participants learned to move from sitting to standing and standing to sitting and to walk 50 to 166 meters in six minutes. Some assistance was needed for participants with the most limiting spinal cord injuries. Four of the participants were able to climb and descend stairs. The study concluded that ReWalk assisted walking can be performed independently by individuals with certain cases of spinal cord injury and that future technological advances and ongoing training could improve mobility and independence. Certain participants reported adverse effects in the form of mild to moderate skin abrasions, which were resolved with equipment adjustments, additional padding, and, in certain cases, allowing the skin to heal. 

&#8226; 

The fifth study, published in International Journal of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation in November 2014 reported on 16 patients who had undergone gait training using the ReWalk Rehabilitation device. These subjects demonstrated significant increases in joint range of motions for the hip and ankle joints. No adverse results were reported. 

&#8226; 

A sixth study, which was a continuation of the fourth study mentioned above, was presented at a scientific session of the 2015 American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. This study demonstrated improvements in quality of life measurements for pain reduction, fatigue, and improved sleep. Restoration of physiological loading to the legs. Improvements in bowel function, seated balance and reduction in fat mass were also documented. 

&#8226; 

A seventh study published in the Journal of Rehabilitation Research and Development in 2015 assessed heart rate and oxygen demand of powered exoskeleton-assisted walking in person with paraplegia. As part of an ongoing clinical study, eight non-ambulatory persons with paraplegia were trained to ambulate with a powered exoskeleton. Measurements of oxygen uptake and heart rate were recorded for six minutes each during each maneuver while sitting, standing, and walking. The average value of oxygen uptake and heart rate response during walking were significantly higher than for sitting and standing. Persons with paraplegia were able to ambulate efficiently using the powered exoskeleton for over-ground ambulation, providing the potential for functional gain and improved fitness. This report is the first to determine energy expenditure of powered exoskeletal-assisted walking by use of the ReWalk system in persons with SCI. Although the results of this study did not address long-term changes in oxygen demand with habitual use, routine use of the device to increase activity energy expenditure would be expected to have positive cardiopulmonary and metabolic benefits. 

&#8226; 

An eighth study published in Topics in Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation in April 2015 assessed in-hospital walking velocity and level of assistance in a powered exoskeleton for persons with SCI. Twelve individuals that had SCI for 1.5 years or more who were wheelchair-users participated, and seven were able to ambulate greater than 0.4 meters per second, which is a velocity that may be conductive to outdoor activity related community ambulation. The maximum velocity recorded was 0.74 meters per second. 

&#8226; 

A ninth publication is a case report on the effects of training with the ReWalk exoskeleton on quality of life in incomplete spinal cord injury. The study was carried out at a hospital for neurological rehabilitation in Germany. One patient, initially unable to walk independently after suffering a traumatic spinal cord injury, was recruited for this study one year after suffering such injury. The progress of the first six months of training was documented and as a primary outcome measure the quality of life was measured using the industry-standard SF-36 questionnaire. At the end of the six-month study period the patient was able to walk independently supervised by one person. Quality of life, mobility, risk of falling, motor skills and control of bladder and bowel functions were improved. A positive effect of robot-assisted gait training on various areas of quality of life was shown. 

Although study participants and other ReWalk users have reported secondary physical and mental health benefits such as reduced pain and spasticity and improved bowel function and urinary tract function, fewer hospitalizations, reduced dependence on medications and improvements in mood, currently there is no formal clinical data establishing any secondary health benefits of ReWalk. 

Community Engagement and Education &#32; 

We devote significant resources to engagement with and education of the spinal cord injury community with respect to the benefits of ReWalk. We actively seek opportunities to partner with hospitals, rehabilitation centers and key opinion leaders to engage in research and development and clinical activities. We also seek to support educational and charitable organizations with fundraising and outreach programs. We believe that our success has been, and will continue to be driven in part by, our reputation and acceptance within the spinal cord injury community. 

Sales and Marketing 

We market and sell our products directly to third party payors, institutions, including rehabilitation centers, individuals and through third-party distributors. We sell our products directly in Germany and the United States and primarily through 

distributors in our other markets. In our direct markets, we have established relationships with rehabilitation centers and the spinal cord injury community, and in our indirect markets, our distributors maintain these relationships. Sales of ReWalk Personal are generated primarily from the patient base at our rehabilitation centers, referrals through the spinal cord injury community and direct inquiries from potential users. One customer accounted for 14.8% and 15.0% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

We have established centers of operations in Marlborough, Massachusetts, Berlin, Germany and Yokneam, Israel, to manage sales in North America, Europe, and the rest of world, respectively. 

Services and Customer Support 

Our centers of operations in Marlborough, Massachusetts and Berlin, Germany coordinate all customer support and product service functions for North America and Europe, respectively, through dedicated technical service personnel who provide product services and customer support through training to healthcare providers and support to product users. 

Competition 

The market in which we operate is characterized by active competition and rapid technological change, and we expect competition to increase. Competition arises from providers of other mobility systems and prosthetic devices. 

We are aware of a number of other companies developing competing technology and devices, and some of these competitors may have greater resources, greater name recognition, broader product lines, or larger customer bases than we do. Our principal competitors in the medical exoskeleton market consist of Ekso Bionics (OTC: EKSO), Rex Bionics (London Stock Exchange: RXB), Cyberdyne (Tokyo Stock Exchange: 7779), and Parker Hannifin (NYSE: PH). We believe we have key competitive advantages over these companies, such as our tilt-sensor technology that provides a self-initiated walking experience, more natural gait and faster functional walking speed, ReWalk&#8217;s ability to support its own weight and broad user specifications. Additionally, we are not aware of any medical exoskeleton product that is cleared by the FDA for personal use. ReWalk Personal is the first and only medical exoskeleton cleared by the FDA for personal use in the United States. 

In addition, we compete with alternative devices and alternative therapies, including treadmill-based gait therapies, such as those offered by Hocoma, AlterG, Aretech and Reha Technology. Other medical device or robotics companies, academic and research institutions, or others may develop new technologies or therapies that provide a superior walking experience, are more effective in treating the secondary medical conditions that we target or are less expensive than our current or future products. Our technologies and products could be rendered obsolete by such developments. 

We may also compete with other treatments and technologies that address the secondary medical conditions that ReWalk seeks to mitigate. 

Intellectual Property 

Protection of our intellectual property is important to our business. We seek to protect our intellectual property through a combination of patents, trademarks, confidentiality and assignment agreements with our employees and certain of our contractors and confidentiality agreements with certain of our consultants, scientific advisors and other vendors and contractors. In addition, we rely on trade secrets law to protect our proprietary software and product candidates/products in development. 

As of February 1, 2016, we have four issued patents in the United States and one issued patent in Europe, as well as eight pending patent applications in various countries around the world for our technology. As such, we have apparatus patent claims in the United States and Europe covering aspects of ReWalk and similar devices which use a plurality of sensors to empower tilt-sensor technology. In addition, in the United States, we have method patent claims covering certain methods of user activation and control of systems such as ReWalk, including by sensing the user's torso lean or weight shifts. While our apparatus claims focus on protecting ReWalk in terms of its physical and structural characteristics, we believe that our method claims, which protect the process behind how ReWalk is controlled by the user, provide additional protection for our tilt sensor technology. We do not currently license any of the technology contained in our products other than with respect to technology that is generally publicly available, but we may do so in the future. 

Patents filed both in the United States and Europe generally have a life of 20 years from the filing date. As the oldest of our issued patents relating to our tilt-sensor technology was filed in May 2001, our patents on that technology do not begin to expire until May 2021. 

We currently hold a registered trademark in Israel for the mark &#8220;ReWalk&#8221; and are in the process of registering this trademark in the United States. 

The employment agreement of our founder and former President and Chief Technology Officer, Dr. Amit Goffer, provides that a patent pending relating to a standing wheelchair is his individual property and that he may independently engage in the development of a standing wheelchair. The agreement also provides that we and any of our affiliates or successors have the royalty-free right to the exclusive use in the field of exoskeletons of any intellectual property developed by Dr. Goffer, alone or jointly with others (whether or not as part of the development of a standing wheelchair and whether or not developed through a company), while he is our employee, consultant or board member and for three years thereafter. Mr. Goffer ceased serving as our President and Chief Technology Officer on November 18, 2015, and as a member of our board of directors on December 3, 2015. See Item 13. &#8220;Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.&#8221; 

We cannot be sure that our intellectual property will provide us with a competitive advantage or that we will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we cannot be sure that any patents will be granted in a timely manner or at all with respect to any of our patent pending applications. For a more comprehensive discussion of the risks related to our intellectual property, see Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property.&#8221; 

Government Regulation 

U.S. Regulation 

Our medical products and manufacturing operations are subject to regulation by the FDA and other federal and state agencies. Our products are regulated as medical devices in the United States under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FFDCA, as implemented and enforced by the FDA. The FDA regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, installation, servicing, advertising, promotion, marketing, distribution, import, export, and market surveillance of our medical devices. 

Premarket Regulation 

Unless an exemption applies, each medical device commercially distributed in the United States requires either a substantial equivalence determination under a 510(k) premarket notification submission, or an approval of a premarket approval application (PMA). Under the FFDCA, medical devices are classified into one of three classes&#8212;Class I, Class II or Class III&#8212;depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to provide reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. Classification of a device is important because the class to which a device is assigned determines, among other things, the necessity and type of FDA review required prior to marketing the device. Class I devices are those for which reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness can be assured by adherence to general controls that include compliance with the applicable portions of the FDA&#8217;s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, facility registration and product listing, reporting of adverse medical events, and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling, advertising, and promotional materials. Class I also includes devices for which there is insufficient information to determine that general controls are sufficient to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device or to establish special controls to provide such assurance, but that are not life-supporting or life-sustaining or for a use which is of substantial importance in preventing impairment of human health, and that do not present a potential unreasonable risk of illness of injury. 

&#160; 

Class II devices are those for which general controls alone are insufficient to provide reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness and there is sufficient information to establish &#8220;special controls.&#8221; These special controls can include performance standards, postmarket surveillance, patient registries and FDA guidance documents. While most Class I devices are exempt from the 510(k) premarket notification requirement, only about 60 types of Class II devices are exempt from premarket notification. As a result, manufacturers of most Class II devices are required to submit to the FDA premarket notifications under Section 510(k) of the FFDCA requesting classification of their devices in order to market or commercially distribute those devices. To obtain a 510(k), a substantial equivalence determination for their devices, manufacturers must submit to the FDA premarket notifications demonstrating that the proposed device is &#8220;substantially equivalent&#8221; to a predicate device already on the market. A predicate device is a legally marketed device that is not subject to premarket approval, i.e. , a device that was legally marketed prior to May 28, 1976 (pre-amendments device) and for which a PMA is not required, a device that has been reclassified from Class III to Class II or I, or a device that was found substantially equivalent through the 510(k) process. If the FDA agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device currently on the market, it will grant 510(k) clearance to commercially market the device. If the device is not &#8220;substantially equivalent&#8221; to a previously cleared device, the device is automatically a Class III device. The device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous premarket approval requirements, or can request a risk-based classification determination for the device in accordance with the &#8220;de novo&#8221; process, which is a route to market for medical devices that are low to moderate risk, but are not substantially equivalent to a predicate device. 

Devices that are intended to be life sustaining or life supporting, devices that are implantable, devices that present a potential unreasonable risk of harm or are of substantial importance in preventing impairment of health, and devices that are not substantially equivalent to a predicate device are placed in Class III and generally require approval of a PMA, unless the device is a pre-amendment device not yet subject to a regulation requiring premarket approval. The PMA process is more demanding than the 510(k) premarket notification process. In a PMA, the manufacturer must demonstrate that the device is safe and effective, and the PMA must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. The PMA must also contain a full description of the device and its components, a full description of the methods, facilities and controls used for manufacturing, and proposed labeling. Following receipt of a PMA, the FDA determines whether the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. If the FDA accepts the application for review, it has 180 days under the FFDCA to complete its review of a PMA, although in practice, the FDA&#8217;s review often takes significantly longer, and can take up to several years. 

Clinical trials are almost always required to support PMAs and are sometimes required to support 510(k) submissions. All clinical investigations of devices to determine safety and effectiveness must be conducted in accordance with the FDA&#8217;s investigational device exemption, or IDE, regulations that govern investigational device labeling, prohibit promotion of the investigational device, and specify recordkeeping, reporting and monitoring responsibilities of study sponsors and study investigators. If the device presents a &#8220;significant risk,&#8221; as defined by the FDA, the agency requires the device sponsor to submit an IDE application to the FDA, which must become effective prior to commencing human clinical trials. The IDE will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA denies the application or notifies the company that the investigation is on hold and may not begin. If the FDA determines that there are deficiencies or other concerns with an IDE that requires modification, the FDA may permit a clinical trial to proceed under a conditional approval. In addition, the study must be approved by, and conducted under the oversight of, an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, for each clinical site. If the device presents a non-significant risk to the patient, a sponsor may begin the clinical trial after obtaining approval for the trial by one or more IRBs without separate approval from the FDA, but must still comply with abbreviated IDE requirements, such as monitoring the investigation, ensuring that the investigators obtain informed consent, and labeling and record-keeping requirements. 

In June 2014, the FDA granted our petition for &#8220; de novo &#8221; classification, which provides a route to market for medical devices that are low to moderate risk, but are not substantially equivalent to a predicate device, and classified ReWalk as Class II subject to special controls. The ReWalk is intended to enable individuals with spinal cord injuries to perform ambulatory functions under supervision of a specially trained companion, and inside rehabilitation institutions. The special controls established in the de novo order include compliance with medical device consensus standards; clinical study demonstrating testing to safe and effective use considering the level of supervision necessary and the use environment; non-clinical performance testing of the system&#8217;s function durability and performance to demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use; a training program; and labeling related to device use and user training. The special controls of this de novo order also apply to competing products seeking FDA clearance. 

Postmarket Regulation 

After a device is cleared for marketing, and prior to marketing, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: 

&#8226; 

establishment registration and device listing; 

&#8226; 

development of a quality assurance system, including establishing and implementing procedures to design and manufacture devices; 

&#8226; 

labeling regulations that prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or &#8220;off-label&#8221; uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and 

&#8226; 

medical device reporting regulations that require manufacturers to report to the FDA if a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and corrections and removal reporting regulations that require manufacturers report to the FDA field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act that may present a risk to health. 

Our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the applicable portions of the Quality System Regulation that covers the methods and the facilities and controls for the design, manufacture, testing, production, processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, distribution, installation and servicing of finished devices intended for human use. We actively maintain compliance with the FDA&#8217;s Quality System Regulation, 21 CFR Part 820, and the European Union&#8217;s Quality Management Systems requirements, ISO 13485:2003. 

As a manufacturer, we are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the FDA. If the FDA believes we or any of our contract manufacturers are not in compliance with the quality system requirements, or other postmarket requirements, it has significant enforcement authority. Specifically, if the FDA determines that we failed to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it can take a variety of compliance or enforcement actions, which may result in any of the following sanctions: 

&#8226; 

warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; 

&#8226; 

recalls, withdrawals, or administrative detention or seizure of our products; 

&#8226; 

operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; 

&#8226; 

refusing or delaying requests for 510(k) marketing clearance or PMA approvals of new products or modified products; 

&#8226; 

refusal to grant export approvals for our products; or 

&#8226; 

criminal prosecution. 

Any such action by the FDA would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, these regulatory controls, as well as any changes in FDA policies, can affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and continued availability of new products. Where possible, we anticipate these factors in our product development processes. 

Foreign Regulation 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products. In particular, we are subject to regulation in the E.U., which has directives and standards regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling and adverse event reporting for medical devices. Devices that comply with the requirements of a relevant directive are entitled to bear the CE conformity marking, indicating that the device conforms to the essential requirements of the applicable directive and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout Europe. The method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third party assessment by a &#8220;Notified Body.&#8221; This third party assessment may consist of an audit of the manufacturer&#8217;s quality system or specific testing of the manufacturer&#8217;s product. We comply with the E.U. requirements and have received the CE mark for all of our ReWalk systems distributed in the E.U. 

In Australia, the TGA is responsible for administering the Australian Therapeutics Goods Act. The Office of Devices, Blood and Tissues is the department within the TGA responsible for devices. The TGA recognizes five classes of medical devices and ReWalk falls under the category of Class II for low-medium risk medical devices. 

The Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods, or ARTG, is the register of information about therapeutic goods for human use that may be imported, supplied in, or exported from Australia. Medical devices cannot generally be imported, supplied in, or exported from Australia unless they are included in the ARTG. To clinically investigate a product that is not included in the ARTG, or to use a registered or listed product in a clinical trial beyond the conditions of its marketing approval, the sponsor must receive approval of an application from the TGA under the Clinical Trial Exemption Scheme, or must submit a notification to the Human 

Research Ethics Committee under the Clinical Trial Notification Scheme and receive approval from the &#32; institution or organization at which the trial will be conducted. 

In January 2015, we received regulatory approval to sell ReWalk systems commercially in Australia from the TGA, and as such, are subject to regulation in Australia. 

We are also subject to regulation in certain Asian markets in connection with our distribution agreement with Yaskawa. Pursuant to such agreement, Yaskawa has the rights to distribute ReWalk in Japan, China, Taiwan, Korea, Singapore and Thailand. The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, or the MHLW, approved ReWalk in February 2014 as a welfare device due to its ability to restore mobility to users. Yaskawa has begun evaluating ReWalk at several hospitals and, with such approval of MHLW, Yaskawa may begin selling ReWalk in Japan. In each other country listed above, we will need to obtain approval from the relevant governmental agency prior to marketing ReWalk. We have begun to evaluate the approval process in China, Taiwan, Korea and Singapore but have not yet begun to do so in Thailand. Taiwan recently issued a class 1 registration for the rehabilitation device and we expect clearance for the personal device later this year. 

&#32;We expect that obtaining the necessary approvals in these countries could take between one and a half and two years after we submit the initial application. 

Foreign sales outside of the E.U., Australia and the Asian markets described above are subject to the foreign government regulations of the relevant jurisdiction, and we must obtain approval by the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commence clinical trials or marketing activities in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required to obtain a marketing authorization in the U.S., the E.U., Australia or the Asian markets described above. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. 

The policies of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products and could also increase the cost of regulatory compliance. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. 

U.S. Anti-kickback, False Claims and Other Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws 

In the United States, there are federal and state anti-kickback laws that prohibit the payment or receipt of kickbacks, bribes or other remuneration intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of healthcare products and services. Violations of these laws can lead to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. These laws apply to manufacturers of products, such as us, with respect to our financial relationship with hospitals, physicians and other potential purchasers or acquirers of our products. The U.S. government has published regulations that identify &#8220;safe harbors&#8221; or exemptions for certain practices from enforcement actions under the federal anti-kickback statute, and we will seek to comply with the safe harbors where possible. To qualify for a safe harbor, the activity must fit squarely within the safe harbor. Arrangements that do not meet a safe harbor are not necessarily illegal, but must be evaluated on a case by case basis. Other provisions of state and federal law provide civil and criminal penalties for presenting, or causing to be presented, to third-party payers for reimbursement claims that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. False claims allegations under federal and some state laws may be brought on behalf of the government by private persons, &#8220;whistleblowers,&#8221; who then receive a share of any recovery. 

In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the PPACA. The PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of these statutes or specific intent to violate them. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim that includes items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act. The PPACA also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any &#8220;transfer of value&#8221; made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals. Device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. A number of provisions of PPACA also reflect increased focus on and funding of healthcare fraud enforcement. 

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, water and wastewater discharges, noise emissions, the use, transport, management and disposal of chemicals and hazardous materials, the import, export and registration of chemicals, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Based on information currently available to us, we do not expect environmental costs and contingencies to have a material adverse effect on us. The operation of our business and facilities, however, entails risks in these areas. Significant expenditures could be required in the future to comply with environmental or health and safety laws, regulations or requirements. 

In Israel, where our contract manufacturer produces all of our products, businesses storing or using certain hazardous materials (including materials necessary for our manufacturing process) are required, pursuant to the Israeli Dangerous Substances Law 5753-1993, to obtain a toxin permit from the Ministry of Environmental Protection. 

In the European marketplace, electrical and electronic equipment is required to comply with the Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, which aims to prevent waste by encouraging reuse and recycling, and the Directive on Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances, which restricts the use of six hazardous substances in electrical and electronic products. Our products and certain components of such products &#8220;put on the market&#8221; in the EU (whether or not manufactured in the EU) are subject to these directives. Additionally, we are required to comply with certain laws, regulations and directives, including the Toxic Substances Control Act in the United States and REACH in the EU, governing chemicals. These and similar laws and regulations require the testing, reporting and registration of certain chemicals we use and ship. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. 

Manufacturing 

ReWalk includes off-the-shelf and custom-made components produced to our specifications by various third parties, for technical and cost effectiveness. We have contracted with Sanmina Corporation ("Sanmina"), a well-established contract manufacturer with expertise in the medical device industry, for the manufacture of all of our products. Pursuant to this contract, Sanmina manufactures ReWalk at its facility in Ma&#8217;alot, Israel. All ReWalk Personal units are manufactured pursuant to the same set of specifications, and all ReWalk Rehabilitation units are manufactured pursuant to another set. We place our manufacturing orders with Sanmina pursuant to purchase orders or by providing forecasts for future requirements. We may terminate our relationship with Sanmina at any time upon written notice. Either we or Sanmina may terminate the relationship in the event of a material breach, subject to a 30-day cure period. Our agreement with Sanmina contains a limitation on liability that applies equally to both us and Sanmina. 

We believe that this relationship allows us to operate our business efficiently by focusing our internal efforts on the development of our technology and our products and provides us with substantial scale-up capacity. We regularly test quality on-site at Sanmina&#8217;s facility and we obtain full quality inspection reports. We maintain a non-disclosure agreement with Sanmina. 

We develop certain of the software components internally and license other software components that are generally available for commercial use as open source software. 

We manufacture products based upon internal sales forecasts. We deliver products to customers and distributors based upon purchase orders received, and our goal is to fulfill each customer&#8217;s order for products in regular production within two weeks of receipt of the order. 

Suppliers 

We have contracted with Sanmina for the sourcing of all components and raw materials necessary for the manufacture of our products. Components of our products and raw materials come from suppliers in Europe, China and Israel, and we depend on certain of these components and raw materials, including certain electronic parts, for the manufacture of our products. To date, we have not experienced significant volatility in the prices of these components and raw materials. However, such prices are subject to a number of factors, including purchase volumes, general economic conditions, currency exchange rates, industry cycles, production levels and scarcity of supply. 

We believe that our and Sanmina&#8217;s facilities, our contracted manufacturing arrangement, and our supply arrangements are sufficient to support our potential capacity needs for the foreseeable future. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 87 employees (including full-time and hourly employees), of whom 32 are located in the United States, 39 are located in Israel and 16 are located in Germany. As of December 31, 2014, we had 66 employees, of whom 20 are located in the United States, 33 are located in Israel and 13 are located in Germany, and as of December 31, 2013, we had 45 employees, of whom 10 were located in the United States, 27 were located in Israel and eight were located in Germany. The majority of our employees are, and have been, engaged in sales and marketing and research and development activities. We do not employ a significant number of temporary or part time employees. 

We are subject to Israeli labor laws and regulations with respect to our employees located in Israel. These laws and regulations principally concern matters such as pensions, paid annual vacation, paid sick days, length of the workday and work week, minimum wages, overtime pay, insurance for work-related accidents, severance pay and other conditions of employment. Our employees are not represented by a labor union. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. To date, we have not experienced any work stoppages. 

The employees of our U.S. and German subsidiaries are subject to local labor laws and regulations. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas and Significant Customer Information 

The following table sets forth the geographical breakdown of our revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013: 

&#160; 

Years Ended December 31, 

&#160; 

2014 

Revenue: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

United States 

$ 

2,439 

$ 

2,186 

$ 

Europe 

1,254 

Asia - Pacific 

511 

Israel 

&#8212; 

&#8212; 

Total Revenue 

$ 

3,746 

$ 

3,951 

$ 

1,588 

Additional discussion of financial information by reportable segment and geographic area and sales in excess of 10% of total revenues to certain of our customers is contained in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 8. &#8220;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; of this annual report. 

