 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS 

Except as otherwise indicated herein or as the context otherwise requires, references in this annual report on Form 10-K to "MacroGenics," the "company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to MacroGenics, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. &#160; MacroGenics, the MacroGenics logo, DART, Trident and the phrase "Breakthrough Biologics, Life-Changing Medicines" are our trademarks or registered trademarks. The other trademarks, trade names and service marks appearing in this report are the property of their respective owners. 

Overview

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on discovering and developing innovative antibody-based therapeutics for the treatment of cancer primarily by modulating the human immune system, as well as various autoimmune disorders and infectious diseases. We currently have a pipeline of product candidates in human clinical testing, primarily as treatments for different types of cancers, which have been created primarily using our proprietary technology platforms. We believe our programs have the potential to have a meaningful effect on treating patients' unmet medical needs as monotherapy or, in some cases, in combination with other therapeutic agents.

Our most advanced clinical product candidate is margetuximab, a monoclonal antibody directed against human epidermal growth factor receptor 2, or HER2, that has been enhanced using our proprietary "Fc Optimization" platform described in greater detail below. The HER2 protein is expressed by certain breast, gastroesophageal, bladder and other cancers. We have commenced a Phase 3 clinical trial studying margetuximab in patients with HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer that has progressed despite treatment with other HER2-directed therapeutic agents. We anticipate that a successful outcome from this Phase 3 clinical trial would allow us to seek approval of the product from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. We are also conducting a Phase 1b/2 clinical trial by treating patients with HER2-positive gastroesophageal cancer with margetuximab in combination with pembrolizumab, an immune checkpoint inhibitor molecule that plays a critical role in modulation of the immune system's response to cancer.

We are also developing several product candidates targeting B7-H3, a protein in the B7 family of immune regulator proteins. B7-H3 is widely expressed by a number of different tumor types and may play a key role in regulating the immune response to various types of cancer. There are no currently approved therapeutic agents directed against B7-H3. We have two clinical product candidates directed against B7-H3, enoblituzumab and MGD009, and we also have ongoing research efforts underway to advance an antibody-drug conjugate, or ADC, directed against B7-H3. Our most advanced candidate in this franchise, enoblituzumab, is a monoclonal antibody that has also been enhanced using our Fc Optimization platform. Enoblituzumab is being evaluated clinically in three studies &#8211; as monotherapy, in combination with pembrolizumab and in combination with ipilimumab, another immune system checkpoint inhibitor &#8211; in each case, across multiple tumor types.

MGD009 is one of five molecules developed using our proprietary Dual-Affinity Re-Targeting, or DART, platform, which is described in greater detail below. Unlike standard antibodies, DART molecules can be directed against two different biological targets and therefore lend themselves to a variety of different applications. MGD009, for example, is directed to both B7-H3 expressed on tumor cells as well as CD3, a protein expressed by normal T cells, which are specialized white blood cells in the human immune system. In pre-clinical models, MGD009 has re-directed T cells to reduce or eliminate B7-H3 expressing tumors. We are currently conducting a Phase 1 clinical trial with MGD009 in patients with B7-H3 positive tumors.

Three additional DART molecules, MGD006, MGD007 and MGD011, are also currently in Phase 1 clinical testing and use the same approach of targeting CD3 and a specific tumor antigen known to be expressed on certain cancers. MGD006 is being tested in patients with relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and MGD007 is being tested in patients with colorectal cancer. Our collaboration partner, Les Laboratoires Servier and Institut de Recherches Servier, or, collectively, Servier, has development and commercialization rights outside North America, Japan, Korea and India for MGD006 and has an option to gain similar rights with regards to MGD007. The clinical program for MGD011 is being advanced by our collaboration partner, Janssen Biotech, Inc., or Janssen, and is being studied in a variety of B cell hematological malignancies. These four DART molecules that redirect T cells against cancer targets are manufactured using a conventional antibody platform without the complexity of having to genetically modify T cells from individual patients, as would be required by approaches such as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells.

Our fifth clinical-stage DART molecule, MGD010, has a different mechanism of action than the other DART molecules currently in development. MGD010 targets two proteins expressed by B cells, which are specialized white blood cells that play a role in modulating the human immune system's inflammatory response. We believe that MGD010 may be able to reduce the harmful inflammatory effects seen in a variety of autoimmune and inflammatory disorders by modulating the function of human B cells while avoiding their depletion. MGD010 is currently being studied in a Phase 1a clinical trial with normal, healthy volunteers.

We continue to invest in our clinical-stage programs, advance additional pre-clinical product candidates, primarily using our proprietary technology platforms, and expand the potential of our platforms using our antibody and protein engineering expertise. We develop new therapeutic product candidates internally using our proprietary platforms and also in partnership with other biopharmaceutical companies, when such relationships are advantageous for strategic or financial reasons. These arrangements have allowed us to expand and accelerate the breadth of our product candidates and also have generated a significant portion of the funding we have received to date. We also have our own manufacturing facility, primarily for generation of earlier-stage clinical trial material, and have been investing in expanding our manufacturing capacity to meet later-stage clinical and commercial requirements.

We estimate that in 2015, 2014 and 2013, we spent approximately $98.3 million, $70.2 million and $46.6 million on research and development activities, respectively.

Our Strategy

Primary Objectives

Our goal is to be a fully integrated biotechnology company leading in the discovery, development and commercialization of breakthrough biologics for the treatment of patients with cancer, as well as various autoimmune disorders and infectious diseases.

Key elements of our strategy are as follows:

&#8226;

Therapeutic focus, science driven. &#160; We create therapeutic biological products primarily to treat various types of cancers, including both solid tumors and hematological malignancies. Our proprietary DART and Fc Optimization technology platforms are particularly useful for targeting and harnessing specific elements of the human immune system, allowing us to design molecules that (1) directly target cancer cells and enhance the ability of the immune system to destroy those cells, (2) re-direct effector cells to attack tumors or (3) affect mechanisms that regulate the immune response to cancer, either by stimulating pathways that enhance this response or by blocking pathways that inhibit this response, including checkpoint molecules. This field of scientific discovery, broadly known as immuno-oncology, has been developing rapidly in the last few years, and most therapeutic products to date are largely focused on affecting individual biological pathways. We believe that cancers are sufficiently complex that effective treatments must simultaneously affect more than one pathway. We believe that we are well-positioned, particularly through the adaptability of our DART platform, to be able to create and develop therapeutic molecules designed to simultaneously target more than one pathway.

This same flexibility in our platforms allows us to create therapeutic molecules that may be useful for other unmet medical needs beyond cancer, such as for autoimmune disorders and infectious diseases. Our core strategic focus is on development of cancer therapeutics, but we may also opportunistically pursue such possibilities when they arise.

&#8226;

Fully integrated with a deep pipeline. &#160; Our objective is to be a fully-integrated biotechnology company, and we intend to continue to grow and establish all necessary functions from early-stage research through commercialization in at least the United States. At our current stage of development as a company, we have established early-stage discovery, process development, clinical development and clinical-stage manufacturing functions, and we intend to build commercial manufacturing as well as U.S.-based sales and marketing infrastructure as our development pipeline matures.

We believe we have a broad portfolio of product candidates and we are not dependent upon the success of any one of them for the overall success of the company. We continue to augment our pipeline through the discovery and development of new product candidates, primarily through utilization of our internal scientific expertise and strategically seeking external collaborations that can augment our own skills. In 2014 and 2015, we advanced five programs into clinical development. Our goal is to continue to advance one or more programs into clinical development per year to ensure a robust pipeline and to replace product candidates that fail to progress.

&#8226;

Leveraging partnerships. Throughout our company's history, we have entered into collaborations with other biopharmaceutical companies and intend to continue to do so. We enter into collaborations when there is a strategic advantage to us to do so and when we believe the financial terms of the collaboration are favorable for meeting our short-term and long-term strategic objectives. We are not dependent upon any one of these collaborations, but in many cases we have the rights to significant financial payments if the product candidates that are the subjects of the collaborations achieve development and sales milestones. We have also used these collaborations to provide funding for research, to maintain a broader portfolio of product candidates, and to obtain rights to expand in the future, for example by securing co-promotion and profit-sharing rights under certain circumstances.

&#8226;

Investments in talent and culture. One of our most valuable assets is the quality of our employee base. We invest significant effort in selecting and retaining high caliber, talented individuals who reflect our values of teamwork, initiative, innovation, corporate responsibility and integrity. As we continue to grow, we continue to seek and develop employees who are strongly committed to delivering life-changing medicines for unmet medical needs through a collaborative work environment.

Core Therapeutic Areas We Target

Cancer

Cancer is a broad group of diseases in which cells divide and grow in an uncontrolled fashion, forming malignancies that can invade other parts of the body. In normal tissues, the rates of new cell growth and cell death are tightly regulated and kept in balance. In cancerous tissues, this balance is disrupted as a result of mutations, causing unregulated cell growth that leads to tumor formation and growth. While tumors can grow slowly or rapidly, the dividing cells will nevertheless accumulate and the normal organization of the tissue will become disrupted. Cancers subsequently can spread throughout the body by processes known as invasion and metastasis. Once cancer spreads to sites beyond the primary tumor, it may be incurable. Cancer cells that arise in the lymphatic system and bone marrow are referred to as hematological malignancies. Cancer cells that arise in other tissues or organs are referred to as solid tumors. Cancer can arise in virtually any part of the body, with the most common types arising in the prostate gland, breast, lung, colon and skin. We believe that our platforms position us very well strategically to actively develop approaches for the treatment of both solid tumors and hematologic malignancies.

Cancer is the second leading cause of death in the United States, exceeded only by heart disease, and accounts for almost one of every four deaths. The American Cancer Society estimates that in 2016 there will be approximately 1.7 million new cases of cancer and approximately 590,000 deaths from cancer. The National Institutes of Health estimates that based on growth and aging of the U.S. population, medical expenditures for cancer in the year 2020 are projected to reach at least $158 billion (in 2010 dollars), representing an increase of 27% over 2010.

Autoimmune Disorders

Autoimmune disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, systemic lupus erythematosus and multiple sclerosis, collectively affect more than 20 million people in the United States. Autoimmune disorders involve self-reactivity and destruction by T cells, B cells and antibodies due to a lack of self-tolerance. Anti-inflammatory therapies, such as tumor necrosis factor inhibitors, have been able to improve diseases like rheumatoid arthritis. However, in addition to T cells, more evidence indicates that B cells play an important role in many common autoimmune and allergic disorders by initiating and amplifying the pathological disease processes. Current B cell targeted therapies either cause depletion of B cells, thus limiting their applicability due to the potential for infections (e.g., rituximab), or exhibit a delayed onset of action and limited efficacy across patient populations (e.g., belimumab).

Infectious Diseases

There are a wide variety of infectious diseases, and the epidemiology for each varies significantly with the type of pathogen and patients who are affected. However, in order to avoid being recognized as foreign by the human immune system, many infectious agents have found ways to evade detection. In this way, they may behave similarly, at a biological level, to certain types of cancer. Accordingly, our expertise in designing protein-based therapeutics that are designed to activate the human immune system to eliminate foreign substances may have applicability to various types of infectious diseases, and we explore those possibilities opportunistically.

Our Product Candidates

The table below depicts the current status of product candidates that are in or near human clinical development and for which we retain all or some commercial rights:

Oncology

&#183;

Margetuximab is an antibody that targets human epidermal growth factor receptor 2, or HER2-expressing tumors, including certain types of breast and gastroesophageal cancers. HER2 is critical for the growth of many types of tumors. Using our Fc Optimization platform, we have engineered the constant region, or Fc region, of margetuximab to increase its ability to kill tumor cells through an Fc-dependent mechanism, including antibody dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity, or ADCC. Our Phase 1 data for margetuximab demonstrated that anti-tumor activity had been observed at a range of doses tested, including the lowest dose level of margetuximab, even in patients who were heavily pre-treated (frequently with other anti-HER2 agents). In 2015, we commenced a Phase 3 clinical trial with margetuximab, which we call SOPHIA, in patients with metastatic breast cancer expressing HER2 at the 3+ level by immunohistochemistry (IHC) or 2+ level by IHC with gene amplification who have failed therapy with other HER2-directed therapeutic agents. We also have commenced an exploratory Phase 1b/2 clinical trial combining margetuximab with pembrolizumab in patients with HER2-positive gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer, and we are currently enrolling a Phase 2a clinical trial in patients with lower levels of HER2 expression.

&#183;

Enoblituzumab (which we also refer to as MGA271) is an antibody that targets B7-H3. We engineered enoblituzumab to utilize the same Fc Optimization enhancements that we incorporated in margetuximab to target B7-H3 that is over-expressed on differentiated tumor cells, cancer stem cells and supporting tumor vasculature and underlying tissues. We are currently evaluating enoblituzumab in an ongoing Phase 1 clinical trial as monotherapy in multiple dose expansion cohorts, including patients with melanoma (who have failed prior therapy with checkpoint inhibitors), renal cell carcinoma, triple-negative breast carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and a cohort of patients with lung or bladder carcinoma that have particularly intense expression of B7-H3. In 2015, we also initiated two Phase 1 clinical trials, one combining enoblituzumab with ipilimumab and a second combining enoblituzumab with pembrolizumab.

&#183;

MGD006 is a DART molecule that targets both CD123 and CD3. CD123, the Interleukin-3 receptor alpha chain, is expressed on leukemia and leukemic stem cells, but only at very low levels or not at all on normal hematopoietic stem cells. T cells, which express CD3, can destroy tumor cells. In pre-clinical studies, we have demonstrated the ability of MGD006 to recruit, activate, and expand T cell populations to eliminate leukemia cells. We are currently enrolling patients in the United States in a Phase 1 clinical trial of MGD006 in patients with AML or MDS and are in the process of expanding the trial to patients in Europe. Under the terms of our collaboration with Servier, Servier has the exclusive right to develop and commercialize MGD006 in all countries outside North America, Japan, Korea and India, and MacroGenics retains exclusive rights in those countries.

&#183;

MGD007 is a DART molecule that targets both the glycoprotein A33 (gpA33) and CD3, and has an Fc domain, which is designed to provide extended pharmacokinetic properties and convenient intermittent dosing. gpA33 is expressed on gastrointestinal tumors, including more than 95% of human colon cancers. We have demonstrated that this molecule is able to mediate T cell killing of gpA33-expressing cancer cells and cancer stem cells in pre-clinical experiments. We are currently enrolling patients suffering from colorectal cancer in a Phase 1 clinical trial of MGD007. Under the terms of our collaboration with Servier, Servier has an option to obtain exclusive rights to develop and commercialize MGD007 in all countries outside North America, Japan, Korea and India. If the option is exercised, MacroGenics would still retain exclusive rights in those countries.

&#183;

MGD011 is a DART molecule that targets both CD19 and CD3 and is being developed for the treatment of B cell hematological malignancies. CD19, a lymphocyte-specific marker expressed from early B-lymphocyte development through mature memory B cells, is highly represented in B cell malignancies. This makes it attractive for targeted interventions. MGD011 is designed to redirect T cells, via their CD3 component, to eliminate CD19-expressing cells found in many hematological malignancies. MGD011 has been engineered to address half-life challenges posed by other programs targeting CD19 and CD3. Like MGD007, this product candidate has an Fc domain, which allows for extended pharmacokinetic properties and convenient dosing at a once-a-week or longer interval. Under our collaboration and license agreement, Janssen is leading the development of this product candidate, subject to our options to co-promote the product in the United States and Canada and to invest in later-stage development in exchange for a United States and Canada profit-share. Janssen initiated human clinical trials in 2015 for a variety of B cell hematological malignancies, including diffuse-large B cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, mantle-cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 

&#183;

MGD009 is the second molecule in our B7-H3 franchise. This DART molecule recognizes B7-H3 and CD3, and has an Fc domain, which is designed to provide extended pharmacokinetic properties. We have demonstrated that this molecule is able to mediate T cell killing of cancer cells in pre-clinical experiments. We are currently enrolling patients in a Phase 1 clinical trial of MGD009 in patients across a variety of different solid tumors. 

&#183;

MGD013 is a pre-clinical DART molecule that is intended to enable the co-blockade of two immune checkpoint molecules, PD-1 and LAG-3, which are co-expressed on T cells, with a single agent. MGD013 recognizes both PD-1 and LAG-3 on T cells and has a serum half-life consistent with that of monoclonal antibodies. We anticipate that MGD013 could be used for the treatment of a wide range of cancers, including both solid tumors and hematological malignancies.

Autoimmune Disorders

&#183;

MGD010 is a DART molecule designed to address limitations of existing B cell-targeted therapies by binding to the CD32B and CD79B proteins found on human B cells. In pre-clinical studies, this DART molecule modulated the function of human B cells without B cell depletion. In normal conditions, B cells utilize CD32B as one of the key checkpoints or negative regulators to ensure that tolerance to self is maintained and autoimmune disease does not occur. MGD010 is designed to further exploit this mechanism by triggering this inhibitory "immune checkpoint" loop. We believe this molecule preferentially blocks those B cells that are activated to produce the pathogenic antibodies that promote the autoimmune process. MGD010 is currently being evaluated in a Phase 1a clinical trial with normal healthy volunteers. Under the terms of a collaboration agreement with respect to MGD010, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Takeda, has the option to further develop the program after completion of Phase 1a clinical development and, if that option is exercised, we would retain the right to co-promote the product in the United States and to invest in Phase 3 development in exchange for a North America profit-share.

&#183;

Teplizumab is an anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody being developed for the treatment of type 1 diabetes. Teplizumab has been engineered to alter the function of the T cells that mediate the destruction of the insulin-producing beta cells of the islets of the pancreas. Teplizumab potentially represents an advance in the treatment of type 1 diabetes by addressing the underlying disorder, rather than treating the symptoms through insulin replacement therapy. Teplizumab is currently being evaluated in a Phase 2 clinical trial, called At-Risk, for the prevention or delay of onset of type 1 diabetes in patients determined to be at very high risk for developing the disease. This clinical trial is being sponsored by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. We are actively seeking a collaborator for further development of teplizumab.

Infectious Diseases

&#183;

MGD014 is a DART molecule that targets the envelope protein of human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV-infected cells (Env) and CD3-expressing T cells. We are developing MGD014 under contract number HHSN272201500032C awarded to us in September 2015 by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), part of the National Institutes of Health. MGD014 is our first DART molecule targeting an infectious agent that is planned for clinical testing. The work under this contract will build on pre-clinical studies published in 2015 demonstrating that DART molecules targeting the Env and T cells, via their CD3 component, are able to redirect the immune system's T cells to kill HIV-infected cells. DART molecules could be used independently or become a key part of a "shock-and-kill" strategy in conjunction with HIV latency-reversing agents currently under development.

Our Platforms and Technology Expertise

We apply our understanding of disease biology, immune-mediated mechanisms and next generation antibody technologies to design specifically targeted antibody-based product candidates based on our DART and Fc Optimization platforms. Through these platforms and utilization of our proprietary cancer stem-like cell, or CSLC, technology, we have designed antibody-based product candidates that have the potential to improve on standard treatments by having one or more of the following attributes: (1) multiple specificities; (2) increased abilities to interact with the body's immune system to fight tumors; (3) capacity to bind more avidly to antigen targets: (4) increased potency; (5) reduced immunogenicity or (6) the ability to target cancer cells that are resistant to standard treatments. Moreover, these technology platforms are complementary and can be combined.

DART Platform: Our Proprietary Approach to Engineer Bi-Specific Antibodies

We use our DART platform to create derivatives of antibodies with the ability to bind to two distinct targets instead of a single one found in traditional monoclonal antibodies. DART product candidates are therefore bi-specific. An example of a bi-specific molecule is illustrated below:

&#160;

Because cancer cells have developed ways to escape the immune system, we have created DART molecules, which are alternative antibody-like structures with more potent immune properties than the parent antibody molecules from which they are derived. The two variable regions of an antibody are mono-specific and are able to target only a single type structural component of an antigen. For many years, researchers have sought to create recombinant molecules that are capable of targeting two antigens or epitopes (i.e., specific part of an antigen bound by the antibody) within the same molecule. The challenges in creating such molecules have been the instability of the resulting bi-specific molecules and their inherently short half-lives, as well as the inefficiencies in manufacturing these compounds. We believe our DART platform has overcome these engineering challenges by incorporating proprietary covalent di-sulfide linkages and particular amino acid sequences that efficiently pair the chains of the DART molecule. This is designed to provide a structure with enhanced manufacturability, long-term structural stability and the ability to tailor the half-lives of the DART molecules to their clinical needs. This engineered antibody-like protein has a compact and stable structure and enables the targeting of two different antigens with a single recombinant molecule.

The DART platform has been specifically engineered to accommodate virtually any variable region sequence with predictable expression, folding and antigen recognition. To date, we have produced over 100 different DART molecules and have completed numerous in vitro and in vivo proof-of-principle studies on many of these molecules.

We believe our DART platform may provide a significant advantage over current biological interventions in cancer, autoimmune disorders and infectious disease by enabling a range of modalities, including those described below.

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#8226; Redirected T cell activation and killing . In this version of the DART molecule, we are enabling the cancer-fighting properties of the immune effector cells, such as T lymphocytes to: (1) recognize and bind to structures expressed on a cancer cell (e.g., CD123, the first specificity in the example on the right), (2) enable the recruitment of all types of cytotoxic, or cell killing, T cells, irrespective of their ability to recognize cancer cells (e.g., CD3, a common component of the T cell antigen receptor, is the second specificity in the example on the right) and (3) trigger T cell activation, expansion, and cell killing mechanisms to destroy a cancer cell. The outcome is that any of the body's T cells, in theory, could be recruited to destroy a cancer cell and thus, are not limited to the small numbers of specific T cells that might have been generated in response to cancer to kill tumor cells. Furthermore, since any T cell could be recruited for this killing process, only small amounts of a DART molecule are required to trigger this potent immune response. Additionally, the compact structure of the DART protein makes it well suited for maintaining cell-to-cell contact, which we believe contributes to the high level of target cell killing. Similarly, DART molecules targeting CD3 and a viral antigen can be used to recruit T cells to eliminate cells infected by a virus, such as HIV-infected cells.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160; 

&#160; &#160; &#8226; Modulation of receptor signaling . In another configuration of the DART molecule, we have taken advantage of the two different specificities engineered in a DART structure to bind not only to particular cells involved in autoimmune processes, such as autoimmune B cells, but also to usurp the immune checkpoint signaling pathways programmed within the cells to impede the pathogenic autoimmune responses. Our MGD010 product candidate targets both CD32B, a co-inhibitory molecule, and CD79B, part of the B cell antigen receptor complex, two proteins expressed on the immune system's B cells. Using a single DART molecule, we attempt to promote the interaction of these two receptors, a step required to interrupt the B cell activation and immune response that single antibodies directed against CD32B, CD79B or both cannot accomplish independently.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#8226; &#160; Simultaneous targeting of multiple co-inhibitory receptors or checkpoints, such as those involved in inhibiting T cell responses and B cell responses. The immune system generally prevents the development of autoimmune phenomena by regulating activated immune cells that have responded to non-self or foreign antigens. This negative feedback loop is triggered by the interactions of co-inhibitory receptors, or checkpoint molecules, expressed on the immune cells with ligands expressed by other cells, such as antigen-presenting cells. This phenomenon is exploited by cancer, whereby tumor cells express checkpoint ligands that block the development of an immune response against the tumor. Antibodies that block the interaction of checkpoint molecules with their ligands have been shown to significantly improve the clinical outcomes of patients with advanced cancers. Because of the diversity of immune checkpoint pathways, blockade of a single axis, while clinically significant, as shown in the case of the blockade of the PD-1/PD-L1 axis with pembrolizumab or nivolumab, will not benefit all patients. In fact, combinations of checkpoint inhibitors, such as nivolumab and ipilimumab, a CTLA-4 blocker, have resulted in significantly enhanced benefit compared to ipilimumab alone. We believe that DART molecules targeting two immunoregulatory pathways, such as two checkpoints in a single molecule, could afford the clinical benefit of the combination together with the potential for synergistic activity, as well as significant advantages in manufacturing, simplified clinical development, and enhanced patient convenience. 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#8226; Agonistic receptor signaling. Ligands can initiate cell signaling by clustering their cell surface receptors, a process also known as receptor dimerization or oligomerization. The DART platform lends itself well to triggering signals via direct, ligand-independent oligomerization of cell surface receptors. An example of such an application is the surface oligomerization by DART molecules directed against the death receptor 5 or DR5, a molecule known to be expressed by tumors whose signal can trigger death of the cancer cell by a process termed apoptosis. Crucial to this effect is our ability to design high valency, or multivalent, DART molecules, capable of binding multiple binding sites,

&#160;

In addition to the ability to tailor a DART molecule's valency, we have the capacity to modify the strength by which the binding sites attach to their targets and the molecule's half-life in the blood circulation after delivery to a patient. Furthermore, when an Fc domain is coupled with a DART molecule, additional changes can be included that can modulate the DART molecule's engagement with different immune cells.

We have developed proof-of-concept pre-clinical data and are developing specific product candidates using this technology, including MGD006, MGD007, MGD010, MGD011 and MGD009, among others. We have been able to produce DART molecules in both bacterial and mammalian expression systems.

At our R&#38;D Day in October 2015, we presented our Trident platform, which reflects the continuing evolution of the multi-specific antibody-based targeting expertise we developed in creating our DART platform. Built on the DART module, the tri-specific Trident platform incorporates in an Ig-like format an additional domain capable of engaging an independent antigen. With the inclusion of a third targeting arm, Trident molecules enable a broader range of mechanisms of action than bi-specific targeting, allowing, for instance, the engagement of multiple antigens on a single or on different cells or enabling enhanced target selectivity by modulating the avidity of one of two antigens.

Fc Optimization Platform: Our Proprietary Approach to Enhance Immune-Mediated Cancer Cell Killing

To enhance the body's immune ability, we developed our Fc Optimization platform which introduces certain mutations into the Fc region of an antibody and is able to modulate antibody interaction with immune effector cells. Such interaction enhances the body's immune ability to mediate the killing of cancer cells through ADCC.

ADCC

&#160;

The Fc region mediates the function of IgG antibodies by binding to different activating and inhibitory receptors, referred to as Fc g Rs, on immune effector cells found within the innate immune system. By engineering Fc regions to bind with an increased affinity to the activating Fc g Rs and with a reduced affinity to the inhibitory Fc g Rs, we have been able to impart a more effective immune response and improve effector functions, such as ADCC. This is another example in which small changes in antibody structure can confer improvements on normal immune processes.

We have established a proprietary platform to engineer, screen, identify and test antibodies' Fc regions with customizable activity. In particular, we have licenses to use transgenic mice that express human Fc g Rs. These mice can be used for in vivo testing of antibodies that incorporate Fc domain variants, including those antibodies intended for cancer therapy.

To date, we have successfully incorporated our Fc variants in two of our clinical-stage antibody product candidates, margetuximab and enoblituzumab. We have pre-clinical data demonstrating that these Fc variants have substantially improved the activity of these antibodies.

Cancer Stem-like Cell Technology: Our Proprietary Approach to Discover Cancer Targets

Our CSLC technology provides new approaches to discover and identify cancer targets that are not susceptible to current cancer therapies. We have generated over 2,700 monoclonal antibodies that we have screened by IHC for lower-binding to normal, non-malignant tissues. Cancer stem cells represent important potential targets in oncology drug development because they are theorized to be the basis for tumor re-growth, metastasis and resistance to much standard chemotherapy.

Our Collaborations

We pursue a balanced approach between product candidates that we develop ourselves and those that we develop with our collaborators. Under our current strategic collaborations, we have received significant non-dilutive funding to date and continue to have rights to additional funding upon completion of certain research, achievement of key product development milestones and royalties and other payments upon the commercial sale of products. Each of our collaborations has a unique set of terms and conditions, but in general, they fall into two categories:

&#183;

MacroGenics-Created Programs . We have a number of collaborations relating to product candidates that we have created from our internal research efforts. These include Janssen for MGD011; Servier for MGD006 and MGD007; Takeda for MGD010 and Green Cross Corp., or Green Cross, for margetuximab. In the case of these product candidates, we entered into collaborations because we believed that our partner could further enable development of the program or provide additional capabilities and funding to supplement MacroGenics' investment, or both. We obtained financial terms that we believed were beneficial to us and retained commercial rights for multiple major markets or options to other commercial rights. For example, under the Janssen and Takeda agreements, we have the option to co-promote products in the United States as well as an option to share in profits in the United States (and, under the Janssen agreement, Canada) if we invest in late-stage development. Under the Servier agreement, we retain full commercialization and development rights in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan, South Korea and India, and regain worldwide rights if Servier opts not to continue co-developing MGD007. Under the Green Cross agreement, we retain full commercialization rights worldwide except for South Korea.

&#183;

Joint Research Programs. &#160; We have several programs under which collaborators have sought to utilize some aspect of our protein engineering platforms with new product concepts that are jointly directed, sometimes employing a collaborator's own proprietary technology. These collaborations give us the ability to expand the breadth of our potential products, develop greater scientific expertise and obtain additional funding for research. Pfizer, Inc. and Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, or Boehringer, are currently advancing projects in their own pipelines based on these types of programs, and Gilead Sciences, Inc., or Gilead, and Takeda also have the potential to request development of new product candidates under these types of programs. With these collaborators, we have more limited development or commercial rights related to the product candidates that may emerge from joint research programs.

Intellectual Property

We strive to protect the proprietary technologies that we believe are important to our business, including seeking and maintaining patents intended to protect, for example, the composition of matter of our product candidates, their methods of use, the technology platforms used to generate them, related technologies and/or other aspects of the inventions that are important to our business. We also rely on trade secrets, confidentiality and invention assignment agreements and careful monitoring of our proprietary information to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection.

Our success will depend significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for commercially important technology, inventions and know-how related to our business. In addition, there is cost and risk to our business in defending and enforcing our patents, maintaining our licenses to use intellectual property owned by third parties and preserving the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operating without infringing the valid and enforceable patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. We also rely on know-how, continuing technological innovation and in-licensing opportunities to develop, strengthen and maintain our proprietary positions. We currently use multiple industry-standard patent monitoring systems to monitor new United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, filings for any applications by third parties that may infringe on our patents.

The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies like us are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and its scope can be reinterpreted by the courts after issuance. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our product candidates will be protectable or remain protected by enforceable patents. We cannot predict whether the patent applications we are currently pursuing will issue as patents in any particular jurisdiction or whether the claims of any issued patents will provide sufficient proprietary protection from competitors. Any patents that we hold may be challenged, narrowed, circumvented or invalidated by third parties.

A third party may hold patents or other intellectual property rights that are important to or necessary for the development of our product candidates or use of our technology platforms. It may be necessary for us to use the patented or proprietary technology of third parties to commercialize our product candidates, in which case we would be required to obtain a license from these third parties on commercially reasonable terms, or our business could be harmed, possibly materially. For example, certain patents held by third parties cover Fc engineering methods and mutations in Fc regions to enhance the binding of Fc regions to Fc receptors on immune cells. Although we believe that these patents are invalid, if they cover margetuximab or enoblituzumab and we are unable to invalidate them, or if licenses for them are not available on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be harmed, perhaps materially.

Because patent applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions can be maintained in secrecy for 18 months or potentially even longer, and because publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain of the priority of inventions covered by pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention. In the ordinary course of business we participate in post-grant challenge proceedings, such as oppositions, that challenge the patentability of third party patents. Such proceedings could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us.

Pipeline Patent Protection

As of December 31, 2015, we held 78 patents in the United States with 60 patent applications pending and 202 patents in other countries of the world with 206 patent applications pending. In addition to patents and patent applications generally providing protection for various aspects of our Fc Optimization, DART, Trident and Cancer Stem-Like Cell platforms, we have patent and patent applications for the composition of matter of each of our clinical pipeline product candidates and, in some cases, we also have other patents and patent application related to various aspects of the technology underlying these product candidates or their methods of use.

Patent terms may be adjusted or extended, as described in greater detail below, in certain circumstances. However, assuming no adjustments or extensions, the primary composition of matter patent for each of our clinical pipeline product candidates is expected to expire in the following timeframes:

Product Candidate

Expiration Date

margetuximab

enoblituzumab

MGD006

2034*

MGD007

2034*

MGD009

2036*

MGD011

2035*

MGD010

2034*

* pending

Patent Term Extension and Reference Product Exclusivity

The Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent term extension for FDA-approved drugs, including biological products, of up to five years beyond the expiration of the patent. The length of the patent term extension is related to the length of time the drug is under regulatory review. Patent extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval and only one patent applicable to an approved drug may be extended. Similar provisions are available in Europe and other jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if and when our pharmaceutical product candidates receive FDA approval, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on patents covering those products. We intend to seek patent term extensions to any of our issued patents in any jurisdiction where these are available, however there is no guarantee that the applicable authorities, including the FDA in the United States, will agree with our assessment of whether such extensions should be granted, and even if granted, the length of such extensions.

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively the ACA, created a regulatory scheme authorizing the FDA to approve biosimilars via an abbreviated licensure pathway. In many cases, this allows biosimilars to be brought to market without conducting the full suite of clinical trials typically required of originators. Under the ACA, a manufacturer may submit an application for licensure of a biologic product that is "biosimilar to" or "interchangeable with" a previously approved biological product or "reference product." The "biosimilar" application must include specific information demonstrating biosimilarity based on data derived from: (1) analytical studies, (2) animal studies, and (3) a clinical study or studies that are sufficient to demonstrate safety, purity, and potency in one or more appropriate conditions of use for which the reference product is licensed, except that FDA may waive some of these requirements for a given application. Under this new statutory scheme, an application for a biosimilar product may not be submitted to the FDA until four years after the date of first licensure. The FDA may not approve a biosimilar product until 12 years from the date on which the reference product was first licensed. The law does not change the duration of patents granted on biological products. Even if a product is considered to be a reference product eligible for exclusivity, another company could market a competing version of that product if the FDA approves a full BLA for such product containing the sponsor's own pre-clinical data and data from adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate the safety, purity and potency of their product. Furthermore, recent legislation has proposed that the 12 year exclusivity period for each a reference product may be reduced to seven years.

Trade Secrets

We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, including through contractual means with our employees and consultants, third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology. Thus, we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. It is our policy to require our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information concerning our business or financial affairs developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual's relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions conceived by the individual, and which are related to our current or planned business or research and development or made during normal working hours, on our premises or using our equipment or proprietary information, are our exclusive property. In many cases our confidentiality and other agreements with consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors require them to assign or grant us licenses to inventions they invent as a result the work or services they render under such agreements or grant us an option to negotiate a license to use such inventions.

In-Licensed Intellectual Property

We have entered into patent and know-how license agreements that grant us the rights to use certain technologies related to biological manufacturing for our clinical product candidates. We anticipate using these technologies for future product candidates. These licensors have businesses dedicated to licensing this type of technology and we anticipate that licenses to use these technologies for our future products will be available. The licenses typically include yearly maintenance payments and sales royalties, and may also include upfront payments or milestone payments.

Manufacturing

We currently manufacture our drug substance for our clinical trials at our manufacturing facility located in Rockville, Maryland, For our antibody product candidates, we have supplemented our drug substance manufacturing capacity through an arrangement with CMC Biologics, Inc., or CMC, a contract manufacturing organization, and plan to commercially produce margetuximab at CMC assuming the success of the Phase 3 SOPHIA clinical trial on the expected timeline. We have leased a building in Rockville, Maryland, at which we intend to build a suite to increase our internal capacity to manufacture more drug substance lots, at larger scale and in full compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) to be able to sell commercial product. In addition, we currently rely on and will continue to rely on contract fill-finish service providers, primarily Ajinomoto Althea, Inc. and Baxter Healthcare Corporation, to fulfill our fill-finish needs for our current and future product candidates.

Most of the principal materials we use in our manufacturing operations are available from more than one source. However, we obtain certain raw materials principally from only one source. In the event one of these suppliers was unable to provide the materials or product, we generally seek to maintain sufficient inventory to supply the market until an alternative source of supply can be implemented. However, in the event of an extended failure of a supplier, it is possible that we could experience an interruption in supply until we established new sources or, in some cases, implemented alternative processes.

Production processes for biological therapeutic products are complex, highly regulated, and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a very lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures, process modifications, and regulatory approvals. Accordingly, if we were to experience extended plant shutdowns at one of our own facilities, extended failure of a contract supplier or contract manufacturing organization, or extraordinary unplanned increases in demand, we could experience an interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages until production could be resumed or expanded.

Commercialization

We cannot market or promote a new product until a marketing application has been approved by the FDA. We currently have no approved products in the United States. We have not yet established a sales, marketing or product distribution infrastructure. We believe that it will be possible for us to access the United States oncology market through a specialty sales force. Subject to receiving marketing authorization in the United States, we expect to commence commercialization via our then-in-place sales and marketing organizations. We believe that these organizations will be able to serve the oncology community in treating the patient populations for which our oncology product candidates are being developed. Outside the United States, we expect to enter into arrangements with third-party commercial partners for any of our product candidates that obtain marketing approval.

Competition

There are a large number of companies developing or marketing treatments for cancer and autoimmune disorders, including many major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These treatments consist both of small molecule drug products, as well as biologic therapeutics that work by using next-generation antibody technology platforms to address specific cancer targets. In particular, margetuximab is directed against HER2 and several companies have cancer therapeutics directed against HER2 marketed or in development, such as F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., particularly through its affiliate, Genentech, Inc., as well as Puma Biotechnology, Inc., Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Oncothyreon Inc. Market competition may limit the utilization of margetuximab as a therapeutic, even if market approval and adequate reimbursement is obtained, and competition among development-stage programs for patients enrolling in clinical trials for HER2-directed therapies may delay expected timelines for our clinical trials. In addition, the immuno-oncology field is competitively crowded, with treatments currently approved and on the market or in development for various tumor types and patient populations from a variety of different companies such as Bristol Myers Squibb Company, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. and Merck &#38; Co., Inc. Several companies are also developing therapeutics that work by targeting multiple specificities using a single recombinant molecule. Amgen Inc. has obtained marketing approval for at least one product that works by targeting antigens both on immune effector cell populations and those expressed on certain cancer cells, and has other product candidates in development that use this mechanism. In addition, other companies are developing new treatments for cancer and autoimmune diseases that enhance the Fc regions of antibodies to create more potent antibodies, including F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. and Xencor, Inc.

Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, drug development, technical and human resources than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining top qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs.

The key competitive factors affecting the success of all of our therapeutic product candidates, if approved, are likely to be their efficacy, safety, dosing convenience, price, the effectiveness of companion diagnostics in guiding the use of related therapeutics, the level of generic or biosimilar competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payors. In addition, the standard of medical care provided to cancer patients continues to evolve as more scientific and medical information becomes available. These changes in medical care relate to pharmaceutical products, but are also affected by other factors, and such changes can positively or negatively affect the prospects of our product candidates as well as those of our competitors.

Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, have fewer or less severe effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third party payors seeking to encourage the use of biosimilar products. Biosimilar products are expected to become available over the coming years. For example, certain products that are trastuzumab biosimilars may be approved in the U.S. prior to margetuximab, if approved.

The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and drug therapy. There are a variety of available drug therapies marketed for cancer. Many of these approved drugs are well established therapies and are widely accepted by physicians, patients and third party payors. In many cases, these drugs are administered in combination to enhance efficacy. While our product candidates may compete with many existing drug and other therapies, to the extent they are ultimately used in combination with or as an adjunct to these therapies, our product candidates will not be competitive with them.

Government Regulation and Product Approval

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, import and export of pharmaceutical products such as those we are developing. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and in foreign countries, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources.

FDA Regulation

All of our current product candidates are subject to regulation in the United States by the FDA as biological products, or biologics. The FDA subjects biologics to extensive pre- and post-market regulation. The Public Health Service Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations, govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, recordkeeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling, and import and export of biologics. Failure to comply with applicable U.S. requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve pending Biologics License Applications, or BLAs, withdrawal of approvals, clinical holds, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties, or criminal penalties.

Pre-clinical Studies . Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and risky; failure rates are high. Product development cycles are long - approximately 10 to 15 years from discovery to market. A potential new biological product must undergo many years of pre-clinical and clinical testing to establish it is pure, potent and safe.

Pre-clinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, formulation and toxicity, pharmacology, as well as animal trials to assess the characteristics and potential safety and efficacy of the product. The conduct of the pre-clinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements including FDA's good laboratory practice (GLP) regulations and USDA's regulations implementing the Animal Welfare Act. After laboratory analysis and pre-clinical testing in animals, we file an Investigational New Drug Application (IND) with FDA to begin human testing. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the pre-clinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature, and a proposed clinical trial protocol, among other things, to the FDA as part of an IND application. Certain pre-clinical tests, such as animal tests of reproductive toxicity and carcinogenicity, may continue even after the IND is submitted. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to one or more proposed clinical trials and places the clinical trial on a clinical hold or agrees on an alternate approach with us. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence.

&#160; Clinical Development . Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to human subjects (healthy volunteers or patients) under the supervision of a qualified investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted: (i) in compliance with all applicable federal regulations and guidance, including those pertaining to good clinical practice, or GCP, standards that are meant to protect the rights, safety, and welfare of human subjects and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, investigators, and monitors; as well as (ii) under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol involving testing of a new drug in the United States (whether in patients or healthy volunteers) must be included in the IND submission, and FDA must be notified of subsequent protocol amendments. In addition, the protocol must be reviewed and approved by an institutional review board (IRB), and all study subjects must provide informed consent prior to participating in the study. Typically, each institution participating in the clinical trial will require review of the protocol before any clinical trial commences at that institution. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for public dissemination on their ClinicalTrials.gov website. Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and there are additional, more frequent reporting requirements for suspected unexpected serious adverse events.

A study sponsor might choose to discontinue a clinical trial or a clinical development program for a variety of reasons. The FDA may impose a temporary or permanent clinical hold, or other sanctions, if it believes that the clinical trial either is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial subjects. An IRB may also require the clinical trial at the site to be halted, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB's requirements, or may impose other conditions.

Clinical trials to support BLAs for marketing approval are typically conducted in three pre-approval phases, but the phases may overlap or be combined, particularly in testing for oncology indications. In Phase 1, testing is conducted in a small group of subjects who may be patients with the target disease or condition or healthy volunteers, to evaluate its safety, determine a safe dosage range, and identify side effects. In Phase 2, the drug is given to a larger group of subjects with the target condition to further evaluate its safety and gather preliminary evidence of efficacy. Phase 3 studies typically last multiple years for oncology indications. In Phase 3, the drug is given to a large group of subjects with the target disease or condition (several hundred to several thousand), often at multiple geographical sites, to confirm its effectiveness, monitor side effects, and collect data to support drug approval. In some cases, FDA may require post-market studies, known as Phase 4 studies, to be conducted as a condition of approval in order to gather additional information on the drug's effect in various populations and any side effects associated with long-term use. Depending on the risks posed by the drugs, other post-market requirements may be imposed. Only a small percentage of investigational drugs complete all three phases and obtain marketing approval.

Product Approval . After completion of the required clinical testing, a BLA can be prepared and submitted to the FDA. FDA approval of the BLA is required before marketing of the product may begin in the United States. The BLA must include the results of pre-clinical, clinical and other testing and a compilation of data relating to the product's chemistry, manufacture and controls. The cost of preparing and submitting a BLA is substantial. Under federal law, the submission of most BLAs is additionally subject to a substantial application user fee, and annual product and establishment user fees also apply. These fees are typically increased annually.

The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of a BLA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the FDA's threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins a substantive review, and the review period under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act begins. The standard for reviewing a BLA is whether the product is safe, pure and potent, which has been interpreted to include that the product is safe and effective and has a favorable benefit-risk profile. FDA's current performance goals call for FDA to complete review of 90 percent of standard (non-priority) BLAs within 10 months of receipt and within six months for priority BLAs, which is 12 months and eight months, respectively, if the 60-day review of the initial application is included in the timeline.

The FDA may refer applications for novel products or products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes outside clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether sufficient data exist in the application to support product approval. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations.

Before approving a BLA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. Additionally, the FDA will typically inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured. FDA will not approve the product unless compliance with current good manufacturing practices (cGMPs) is satisfactory. FDA also reviews the proposed labeling submitted with the BLA and typically requires changes in the labeling text.

After the FDA evaluates the BLA and the manufacturing and testing facilities, it issues either an approval letter or a complete response letter. Complete response letters generally outline the deficiencies in the submission and delineate the additional testing or information needed in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA's satisfaction in a resubmission of the BLA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing 90 percent of resubmissions within two or six months from receipt depending on the type of information included.

An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug for the approved indication or indications and the other conditions of use set out in the approved prescribing information. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing.

As a condition of BLA approval, the FDA may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug's safety or efficacy and may impose other conditions, including labeling restrictions that can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. As a condition of approval, or after approval, the FDA also may require submission of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to mitigate any identified or suspected serious risks. The REMS may include medication guides, physician communication plans, assessment plans, and elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries, or other risk minimization tools.

Other U.S. Post-Marketing Regulatory Requirements . Once a BLA is approved, a product will be subject to certain post-approval requirements, including those relating to advertising, promotion, adverse event reporting, recordkeeping, and cGMPs, as well as registration, listing, and inspection. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data.

FDA regulates the content and format of prescription drug labeling, advertising, and promotion, including direct-to-consumer advertising and promotional Internet communications. FDA also establishes parameters for permissible non-promotional communications between industry and the medical community, including industry-supported scientific and educational activities. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion for uses not consistent with the approved labeling, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses or otherwise not to have met applicable promotion rules may be subject to significant liability under both the FDCA and other statutes, including the False Claims Act. See "Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements" below for more information.

All aspects of pharmaceutical manufacture must conform to cGMPs after approval. Drug manufacturers and certain of their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA during which the FDA inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMPs and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third-party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMPs.

Products may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. Changes to some of the conditions established in an approved application, including changes in indications, labeling, product formulation or manufacturing processes or facilities, require submission and FDA approval of a new BLA or BLA supplement, in some cases before the change may be implemented. A BLA supplement for a new indication typically requires clinical data similar to that in the original application, and the FDA uses the same procedures and actions in reviewing BLA supplements as it does in reviewing BLAs.

Manufacturers are subject to requirements for adverse event reporting and submission of periodic reports following FDA approval of a BLA. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or failure of Phase 4 studies to meet their specified endpoints, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information, the need to conduct additional post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks, imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program, or recall of the product and withdrawal of the BLA.

Noncompliance with postmarket requirements can result in one or more of the following consequences:

&#8226; &#160; Restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; 

&#8226; &#160; Warning letters; 

&#8226; &#160; Holds on post-approval clinical trials; 

&#8226; &#160; Refusal of the FDA to approve pending BLAs or supplements to approved BLAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; 

&#8226; &#160; Product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or 

&#8226; &#160; Injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. 

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which regulates the distribution of drugs and drug samples at the federal level, and sets minimum standards for the registration and regulation of drug distributors by the states. Both the PDMA and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples and impose requirements to ensure accountability in distribution.

Approval of Biosimilars . The ACA authorized the FDA to approve biosimilars via a separate, abbreviated pathway. In many cases, this allows biosimilars to be brought to market without conducting the full suite of clinical trials typically required of originators. The law establishes a period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference products in order to preserve incentives for future innovation and outlines statutory criteria for science-based biosimilar approval standards that take into account patient safety considerations. Under this framework, data exclusivity protects the data in the innovator's regulatory application by prohibiting others, for a period of 12 years, from granting FDA approval based in part on reliance on or reference to the innovator's data in their application to the FDA. The law does not change the duration of patents granted on biological products.

Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements

In the United States, our activities are potentially subject to regulation by federal, state, and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (e.g., the Office of Inspector General), the U.S. Department of Justice and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the Department of Justice, and state and local governments.

For example, certain financial interactions with healthcare professionals may be subject to the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act and the False Claims Act, and in addition our activities may be affected by the privacy regulations issued under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended, and similar state laws.

International Regulation

In addition to regulations in the United States, a variety of foreign regulations govern clinical trials, commercial sales, distribution of product candidates and other areas outlined above. These regulations can vary between jurisdictions and can be more onerous than regulations in the United States. Penalties for violating such regulations also exist in these jurisdictions.. The approval process varies from country to country and the time to approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval.

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing, and Reimbursement

In the United States and other countries, sales of any future products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, including government health administrative authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers, and other organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly examining the medical necessity and cost effectiveness of medical products and services in addition to safety and efficacy and, accordingly, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics. Third-party reimbursement adequate to enable us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in research and product development may not be available for our products.

Drug prices have become a subject of increased focus in recent years. Although there are currently no direct government price controls over private sector purchases in the U.S., federal law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain Medicaid-reimbursed drugs to enable them to be eligible for reimbursement under certain public healthcare programs such as Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Various states have adopted further mechanisms that seek to control drug prices, including by disfavoring certain higher priced drugs or by seeking supplemental rebates from manufacturers. Managed care has also become a potent force in the market place that increases downward pressure on the prices of pharmaceutical products.

Public and private healthcare payers control costs and influence drug pricing through a variety of mechanisms, including through negotiating discounts with the manufacturers and through the use of tiered formularies and other mechanisms that provide preferential access to certain drugs over others within a therapeutic class. Payers also set other criteria to govern the uses of a drug that will be deemed medically appropriate and therefore reimbursed or otherwise covered.

Facilities

Our headquarters are currently located in Rockville, Maryland, where we occupy office and laboratory space under two leases that each expire on January 31, 2020, and each of those leases may be extended for a five-year term. Our manufacturing facility is also located in Rockville under lease from the same landlord. The lease for a portion of that facility expires on March 31, 2018 and may be extended for a five-year term, and the lease for the remainder of that facility expires on December 31, 2019. In 2016, we plan to relocate our headquarters to another location in Rockville, Maryland, under the terms of a lease that will expire in 2023 and may be extended for up to two additional seven-year terms. This new facility will allow for the consolidation of more of our operations as well as provide space for expansion of our manufacturing capacity. Our leases for our current headquarters will continue and we plan to use them for additional staff and may sublease excess capacity to the extent available.

We also lease office and laboratory space in South San Francisco under a lease that expires on February 28, 2018.

Employees

As of February 22, 2016, we had 269 full-time employees, 226 of whom were primarily engaged in research and development activities and 56 of whom had an M.D. or Ph.D. degree.

Legal Proceedings

From time to time we may be involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. We are not currently a party to any material legal proceedings.

Available Information

Our website address is www.macrogenics.com. We post links to our website to the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC: Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All such filings are available through our website free of charge. Our filings may also be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

&#160;

