 ITEM 1 

BUSINESS 

As used herein the terms &#147;Company,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; &#147;our,&#148; and &#147;us&#148; refer to Arvana, Inc., its subsidiaries, and 

its predecessor, unless context indicates otherwise. 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

The information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. These

forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our capital

needs, business plans and expectations. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties

regarding our planned business, availability of funds, government regulations, common share prices,

operating costs, capital costs, our ability to deploy our planned business and generate revenues and other

factors. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical facts may be deemed to be

forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology

such as "may", "will", "should", "expect", "plan", "intend", "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "predict",

"potential" or "continue", the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. These statements

are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by our management in light of its experience and its

perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments as well as other

factors they believe are appropriate in the circumstances. Actual events or results may differ materially. In

evaluating these statements, you should consider various factors, including the risks outlined below, and,

from time to time, in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the

&#147;Commission&#148;). These factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking

statement. We disclaim any obligation to publicly update these statements, or disclose any difference

between its actual results and those reflected in these statements. Given these uncertainties, readers are

cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.

Overview 

The Company was incorporated in the State of Nevada on June 16, 1977 as &#147;Turinco, Inc.&#148; to engage in

any legal undertaking. On July 24, 2006, the shareholders approved a change of the Company&#146;s name

from &#147;Turinco, Inc.&#148; to Arvana, Inc to reflect the acquisition of Arvana Networks, Inc. and the decision to

operate a telecommunications business. We discontinued efforts related to our telecommunications

business as of December 31, 2009. We have since been in the process of seeking out other business

opportunities.

Our office is located at 299 S. Main Street, 13th Floor, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, and our telephone

number is (801) 232-7395. Our registered agent is JAD Communications LLC. 5209 West Gowan Road,

Las Vegas, Nevada 89130.

The Company currently trades on the OTC Markets Group, Inc. over the counter market platform under

the symbol &#147;AVNI.&#148;

Company 

On March 17, 2016, the Company entered into a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (&#147;MOU&#148;)

with CaiE Food Partnership Ltd. (&#147;CaiE&#148;) for the purpose of acquiring CaiE as a wholly owned

subsidiary. CaiE is in the business of manufacturing and distributing fresh Dim Sum food products from a

facility based in Sparks Nevada. The MOU anticipates that the Company will issue, subject to shareholder

approval, a fully diluted sixty-seven percent (67%) interest in its common stock in exchange for CaiE.

The MOU further provides that CaiE lend the Company fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) on a convertible

basis prior to the consummation of the transaction. The anticipated transaction will require the Company

to convert existing debt into shares of its common stock, increase the number of authorized common

shares, elect a new Board of Directors and change it name to reflect the new business. Caie had loaned the

Company $20,000 as of the filing date of this report.

In the event that the Company does not complete the acquisition of CaiE, its intention will be to identify

and evaluate alternative business opportunities that might be a good match for the Company. We will not

be able to develop any identified business opportunities without additional financing. Our board of

directors and management are actively pursuing financing in order to maintain operations but are not

currently evaluating potential businesses pending the anticipated transaction with CaiE.

Selection of a Business 

Should the Company not acquire CaiE we will not restrict our consideration to any particular business or

industry segment, and might consider, among others, finance, brokerage, insurance, transportation,

communications, research and development, biotechnology, service, natural resources, manufacturing or

high-technology. Management recognizes that the Company&#146;s inadequate financial resources limit the

scope and number of suitable business venture candidates that might otherwise be available.

The decision to participate in a specific business opportunity will be made upon management&#146;s analysis

of the quality of the other firm&#146;s management and personnel, the anticipated acceptability of new products

or marketing concepts, the merit of technological changes and numerous other factors which are difficult,

if not impossible, to analyze through the application of any objective criteria. In many instances, it is

anticipated that the historical operations of a specific venture may not necessarily be indicative of the

potential for the future because of the necessity to substantially shift a marketing approach, expand

operations, change product emphasis, change or substantially augment management, or make other

changes. We will to some extent be dependent upon the management of a business opportunity to identify

such problems and to implement, or be primarily responsible for the implementation of, required changes.

We will not acquire or merge with any company for which audited financial statements could not be

obtained. Nonetheless, it may be anticipated that any opportunity in which we determine to participate

would present certain risks to our shareholders. Risks might include the track record of management&#146;s

effectiveness, failures to establish a consistent market for products or services, development stage, or to

realize profits. Many more of these risks may not be adequately identified prior to the selection of a

specific opportunity, and our shareholders must, therefore, depend on the ability of management to

identify and evaluate such risks as such become evident.

Acquisition of Business 

We may become a party to a merger, consolidation, reorganization, joint venture, franchise or licensing

agreement with another entity or may purchase the stock or assets of an existing business. On the

consummation of any given transaction it is possible that present management and shareholders would no

longer control the Company. In addition, management may, as part of the terms of any transaction, resign

and be replaced by new officers and directors without a vote of the Company&#146;s shareholders.

The Company anticipates that any securities issued in any reorganization would be issued in reliance on

exemptions from registration under applicable federal and state securities laws. In some circumstances,

however, as a negotiated element of any transaction, the Company may agree to register securities either

at the time the transaction is consummated, under certain conditions, or at a specified time thereafter. The

issuance of a substantial additional securities and their potential sale into any trading market may have a

depressive effect on our stock price.

While the actual terms of a transaction to which the Company may be a party cannot be predicted, it may

be expected that the parties to the business transaction would find it desirable to avoid the creation of a

taxable event and thereby structure the acquisition in a so called &#147;tax-free&#148; reorganization under Section

368(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#147;Code&#148;). However, in order to obtain

tax-free treatment under the Code, it may be necessary for the owners of the acquired business to own

80% or more of the voting stock of the surviving entity. In such event, the shareholders of the Company

would retain less than 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity, which result is a

significant dilution in the equity of existing shareholders.

In the event a merger or acquisition were to occur, our shareholders would in all likelihood hold a lesser

percentage ownership interest in the Company following such merger or acquisition. The percentage

ownership of existing shareholders may be subject to a significant reduction in the event we acquire a

target company with substantial assets. Any merger or acquisition effected by the Company can be

expected to have a significant substantial dilutive effect on the percentage of shares held by the

Company&#146;s present shareholders.

Operation of Business after Acquisition 

The Company's operation following a merger with or acquisition of a business would be dependent on the

nature of the business and the interest acquired. We are unable to determine at this time whether the

Company would be in control of the business or whether present management would be in control of the

Company following any acquisition. We could expect that any future business would present various

challenges that cannot be predicted at the present time.

Competition 

Whatever the business opportunity is that we do ultimately acquire or develop, we are almost certain to be

involved in intense competition with other business entities, many of which will have a competitive edge

over us by virtue of their stronger financial resources and prior business experience.

Employees 

The Company currently has one part time employee. Ruairidh Campbell, our chief executive officer, chief

financial officer and one of our directors manages the Company. The Company looks to Mr. Campbell

for his entrepreneurial skills and talents. Management uses consultants, attorneys and accountants as

necessary and does not plan to engage any full-time employees in the near future.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises, Concessions, Royalty Agreements and Labor Contracts 

The Company owns no patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises, concessions, or royalty agreements. We

are not subject to any labor contracts.

Governmental and Environmental Regulation 

General 

The Company cannot at this time anticipate the government regulations, if any, to which the Company

may be subject following a merger or acquisition. However, we can be certain that the conduct of any

business subjects us to environmental, public health and safety, land use, trade, or other governmental

regulations and state or local taxation. In selecting a business in which to acquire an interest, management

would endeavor to ascertain the effects of such government regulation on a prospective business

opportunity. In certain circumstances, however, such as the acquisition of an interest in a new or start-up

business activity, it may not be possible to predict with any degree of accuracy the impact of government

regulation.

The Company believes that it is currently in compliance in all material respects with all laws, rules,

regulations and requirements that affect its business. Further, we believe that compliance with such

applicable laws, rules, regulations and requirements does not impose a material impediment on our ability

to conduct business.

Research and Development 

During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company spent no amounts on research and

development activities.

Reports to Security Holders 

The Company&#146;s annual report contains audited consolidated financial statements. We are not required to

deliver an annual report to security holders and will not automatically deliver a copy of the annual report

to our security holders unless a request is made for such delivery. We file all of our required reports and

other information with the Commission. The public may read and copy any materials that are filed by the

Company with the Commission at the Commission&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,

Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference

Room by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The statements and forms filed by us with the

Commission have also been filed electronically and are available for viewing or copy on the Commission

maintained Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information

regarding issuers that file electronically with the Commission. The Internet address for this site can be

found at http://www.sec.gov .

