 Item 1. Business 

Our Company 

We are a Delaware corporation, incorporated in April 2014, that provides asset management and advisory services to other entities, primarily within the hospitality industry. We became a public company on November 12, 2014, when Ashford Trust, a NYSE-listed real estate investment trust (&#8220;REIT&#8221;), completed the spin-off of our company through the distribution of shares of our common stock to the Ashford Trust stockholders. We serve as the advisor to Ashford Prime, an NYSE-listed REIT that invests primarily in high revenue per available room (&#8220;RevPAR&#8221;), luxury, upper-upscale and upscale hotels in gateway and resort locations. High RevPAR, for purposes of Ashford Prime&#8217;s investment strategy means RevPAR of at least twice the then-current U.S. national average RevPAR for all hotels as determined by STR, Inc.. Ashford Prime became a publicly traded company in November 2013 upon the completion of its spin-off from Ashford Trust. We also serve as the advisor to Ashford Trust, which is focused on investing opportunistically in the hospitality industry with a focus on full-service upscale and upper-upscale hotels in the U.S. that have a RevPAR generally less than twice the U.S. national average. Ashford Trust has been a public company since August 2003. 

In our capacity as the advisor to Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime, we are responsible for implementing the investment strategies and managing the day-to-day operations of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime, in each case subject to the supervision and oversight of the respective board of directors of such entity. We provide the personnel and services necessary to allow each of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime to conduct its respective business. We may also perform similar functions for new or additional platforms. We are not responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of the individual hotel properties owned by either Ashford Trust or Ashford Prime, which duties are the responsibility of the hotel management companies that operate the hotel properties owned by Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime. 

We conduct our business and own substantially all of our assets through an operating entity, Ashford LLC. We own 99.8% of the outstanding common units of Ashford LLC and serve as its sole manager. 

Our Business Strategy 

Our principal business objectives are to provide asset management and other advisory services to other entities. Currently, we, through our operating subsidiary Ashford LLC, act as the advisor to Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime. 

We earn advisory fees from each company that we advise. These fees include a quarterly base fee, payable in cash, for managing the respective day-to-day operations of the companies we advise and the day-to-day operations of the respective subsidiaries, in each case in conformity with the respective investment guidelines of such entity. The base fee is determined as a percentage of each entity&#8217;s total market capitalization, subject to a minimum fee. We may also be entitled to receive an incentive fee, payable in cash or a combination of cash and stock, from each of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime based on their respective out-performance of their peers, as measured by the total annual stockholder return of such company compared to its peers. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , we earned revenues of $15.5 million &#32;and $43.4 million &#32;from Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2014 , we earned revenues of $12.6 million &#32;and $4.7 million &#32;from Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, respectively. 

We expect to expand our business through growth by (i) managing additional assets of the existing platforms of Ashford Trust or Ashford Prime; (ii) managing assets of newly formed platforms; (iii) acquiring other businesses that provide services to the hospitality industry (which may or may not provide such services to our advisory clients), or acquiring the expertise or personnel necessary to provide such services, and (iv) acquiring third-party asset management contracts and businesses. 

Ashford Investment Management, LLC (&#8220;AIM&#8221;), an indirect subsidiary of ours, or an affiliate of AIM, currently serves, or will serve in the future, as the investment adviser to any private securities funds sponsored by us or our affiliates, which may include, but are not limited to, hedge funds, private equity funds, separately managed accounts, UCITS funds, open or closed end funds registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the &#8220;Investment Company Act&#8221;) business development companies and other private or public alternative investment funds (the &#8220;Funds&#8221;). AIM became a registered investment adviser with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 5, 2015. AIM REHE Funds GP, LP (&#8220;AIM GP&#8221;), or an affiliate of AIM GP, currently serves, or will serve in the future, as the general partner or similar capacity of any Funds. AIM or any affiliate serving as investment adviser to any Funds is entitled to a management fee or other fees or compensation for its role as investment adviser to such Funds. AIM GP, or the applicable affiliate of AIM GP serving as the general partner or similar capacity of any Funds, is entitled to a performance allocation or carried interest, based, generally, on the net profits of the investors in such Funds. AIM Management Holdco, LLC (&#8220;Management Holdco&#8221;) owns 100% of AIM. We, through Ashford LLC, own approximately 60% of Management Holdco, and Mr. Monty J. Bennett, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, and Mr. J. Robison Hays, III, our chief strategy officer and a member of our board of directors, own, in the aggregate, 40% of Management 

Holdco. AIM Performance Holdco, LP (&#8220;Performance Holdco&#8221;) owns 99.99% of AIM GP with the remaining 0.01% general partner interest owned by our wholly owned subsidiary, AIM General Partner, LLC. We, through Ashford LLC and our 100% ownership interest in AIM General Partner, LLC, own approximately 60% of Performance Holdco, and Mr. Monty J. Bennett and Mr. J. Robison Hays, III own, in the aggregate, 40% of Performance Holdco. AIM currently serves as investment adviser to AIM Real Estate Hedged Equity (U.S.) Fund, LP, AIM Real Estate Hedged Equity (Cayman) Fund, Ltd. and AIM Real Estate Hedged Equity Master Fund, LP (collectively the &#8220;REHE Fund&#8221;), a master-feeder private fund focused on investing in the securities of companies in the real estate, hospitality and leisure industries. AIM also currently serves as the investment adviser to Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime. 

On February 23, 2016 the board of directors of AIM Real Estate Hedged Equity (Cayman) Fund, Ltd. (the &#8220;Offshore Fund&#8221;), in consultation with AIM, resolved to wind down the Offshore Fund due to the administrative cost of running the Offshore Fund relative to invested capital. All investments in the Offshore Fund were redeemed on February 29, 2016. AIM Real Estate Hedged Equity Master Fund, L.P. (the &#8220;Master Fund&#8221;) and AIM Real Estate Hedged Equity (U.S.) Fund, LP (the &#8220;U.S. Fund&#8221;) continue to operate, but under new names: &#8220;Ashford Quantitative Alternatives Master Fund, LP&#8221; (the &#8220;AQUA Master Fund&#8221;) and &#8220;Ashford Quantitative Alternatives (U.S.), LP&#8221; (the &#8220;AQUA U.S. Fund&#8221;), respectively, effective March 1, 2016. 

Our Advisory Agreements 

We currently advise two publicly traded REITs, Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, pursuant to advisory agreements. The terms of the two advisory agreements are substantially similar, except as otherwise described below. The following summary of the terms of our advisory agreements does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to a copy of the actual agreements, as amended, entered into with Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, which have been included as exhibits to other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;) and incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. 

General . Pursuant to our advisory agreements with Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, we provide, or obtain on their behalf, the personnel and services necessary for each of these entities to conduct its respective business, as they have no employees of their own. All of the officers of each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust are our employees. We are not obligated to dedicate any of our employees exclusively to either Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, nor are we or our employees obligated to dedicate any specific portion of time to the business of either Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, except as necessary to perform the service required of us in our capacity as the advisor to such entities. The advisory agreements require us to manage the business affairs of each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust in conformity with the policies and the guidelines that are approved and monitored by the boards of such entities. Additionally, we must refrain from taking any action that would (a) adversely affect the status of Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust as a REIT, (b) subject us to regulation under the Investment Company Act, (c) knowingly and intentionally violate any law, rule or regulation of any governmental body or agency having jurisdiction over us, (d) violate any of the rules or regulations of any exchange on which our securities are listed or (e) violate the charter, bylaws or resolutions of the board of directors of each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, all as in effect from time to time. So long as we are the advisor to Ashford Prime, Ashford Prime&#8217;s governing documents permit us to designate two persons as candidates for election as director at any stockholder meeting of Ashford Prime at which directors are to be elected. Such nominees may be our executive officers. 

Our Duties as Advisor . Subject to the supervision of the respective boards of directors of each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, we are responsible for, among other duties: (1) performing and administering the day-to-day operations of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, including all of the subsidiaries and joint ventures of such entities, (2) all services relating to the acquisition, disposition and financing of hotels, (3) performing asset management duties, (4) engaging and supervising, on behalf of such companies, third parties to provide various services included but not limited to overseeing development management, property management, project management, design and construction services and other professional services, (5) performing corporate governance and other management functions, including financial, capital markets, treasury, financial reporting, internal audit, accounting, tax and risk management services, SEC and regulatory compliance, and retention of legal counsel, auditors and other professional advisors, as well as other duties and services outlined in the advisory agreements. 

Any increase in the scope of duties or services to be provided by us must be jointly approved by us and either Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, and is subject to additional compensation as outlined in the advisory agreements. 

We are the exclusive asset manager for each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust; provided, that if the independent directors of either Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust along with our independent directors determine that a proposed acquisition of property would be uneconomic to Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust without additional incentives, Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust will have the option of utilizing us as the asset manager or engaging a third party as the asset manager. 

We also have the power to delegate all or any part of our rights and powers to manage and control the business and affairs of such companies to such officers, employees, affiliates, agents and representatives of ours or such company as we may deem 

appropriate. Any authority delegated by us to any other person is subject to the limitations on our rights and powers specifically set forth in the advisory agreement or the charter of such company. 

We have agreed, from time to time, to make mutually agreed upon &#8220;key money investments&#8221; in the subsidiaries and affiliates of each of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime to facilitate such companies, subsidiaries or affiliates&#8217; acquisition of one or more properties, if the independent directors of Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, and Ashford Inc. determine that without such an investment, the acquisition of such property would be uneconomic to Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust. Any such assets are referred to as &#8220;key money assets.&#8221; Any key money investment will be in the form of, but not limited to, cash, notes, equity of Ashford Inc., the acquisition of furniture, fixture and equipment for use at the subject hotel, or as agreed to at the time a key money investment is made. Upon any such key money investment, Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust will engage Ashford LLC as the asset manager for the related key money asset and will pay the key money asset management fees which are included in the base fees. Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust may also agree to additional incentive fees based on the performance of any key money asset. Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust will be obligated to pay us the &#8220;key money clawback amount,&#8221; which is equal to the difference between a per annum return of 5% on a key money asset and the amount actually received by us (through key money asset management fees and key money incentive fees, if applicable) related to such key money asset, if the Advisory Agreement (or the applicable asset management agreement) is terminated by Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust for any reason or such companies dispose of such key money asset (calculated on an investment by investment basis). 

We have agreed to require our employees and officers who provide services to the companies we advise to comply with the codes and the policies of such companies. 

Limitations on Liability and Indemnification . The advisory agreements provide that we have no responsibility other than to render the services and take the actions described in the advisory agreements in good faith and with the exercise of due care and are not responsible for any action the board of directors of either Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust takes in following or declining to follow any advice from us. The advisory agreements provide that we, and our officers, directors, managers, employees and members, will not be liable for any act or omission by us (or our officers, directors, managers, employees or members) performed in accordance with and pursuant to the advisory agreements, except by reason of acts constituting gross negligence, bad faith, willful misconduct or reckless disregard of our duties under the applicable advisory agreement. 

Each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust has agreed to indemnify and hold us harmless (including our partners, directors, officers, stockholders, managers, members, agents, employees and each other person or entity, if any, controlling us) to the full extent lawful, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities of any nature whatsoever with respect to or arising from any acts or omission by us (including ordinary negligence) in our capacity as advisor, except with respect to losses, claims, damages or liabilities with respect to or arising out of our gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct, or reckless disregard of our duties set forth in the applicable advisory agreement (for which we have indemnified Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable). 

Term and Termination . The terms of our advisory agreements with Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust are 10 years, in each case commencing from the effective date of the applicable advisory agreement. Each advisory agreement provides for automatic five-year renewal terms unless previously terminated as described below. Following the 10-year initial terms, the advisory agreements may be terminated by Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, with 180 days&#8217; written notice prior to the expiration of the then current term, on the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the independent directors of such entity, based upon a good faith finding that either (a) there has been unsatisfactory performance by us that is materially detrimental to such company and the subsidiaries of such company taken as a whole, or (b) the base fee and/or incentive fee (each as defined in the advisory agreements) is not fair based on the then-current market for such fees (and we do not offer to negotiate a lower fee that at least a majority of the independent directors determine is fair). If the reason for non-renewal specified by such company in the termination notice is (b) in the preceding sentence, then we may, at our option, provide a notice of proposal to renegotiate the base fee and incentive fee not less than 150 days prior to the pending termination date. Thereupon, each party has agreed to use its commercially reasonable efforts to negotiate in good faith to find a resolution on fees within 120 days following receipt by such company of the renegotiation proposal. If a resolution is achieved between us and at least a majority of the independent directors of such entity, within the 120-day period, then the applicable advisory agreement will continue in full force and effect with modification only to the agreed upon base fee and/or incentive fee, as applicable. 

If no resolution on fees is reached within the 120-day period, or if Ashford Trust or Ashford Prime, as applicable, terminates the advisory agreement by reason of clause (a) above, or terminates the advisory agreement upon a change in control of such companies, the related advisory agreement will terminate and Ashford Trust or Ashford Prime, as applicable, will be required to pay us all fees and expense reimbursements due and owing through the date of termination as well as a termination fee equal to 1.1 times the greater of either: 

&#8226; 

12 multiplied by the our net earnings (as defined in the advisory agreement) for the 12-month period preceding the termination date of our advisory agreement. For purposes of this calculation, &#8220;Net Earnings&#8221; is defined as (A) our reported Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in our advisory agreement) for the 12-month period preceding the termination of our advisory agreement (adjusted to assume our advisory agreement was in place for the full 12-month period if it otherwise was not), as reported in our earnings releases less (B) our pro forma Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in our advisory agreement) assuming our advisory agreement was not in place during such period plus (C) all EBITDA (Net Income (per GAAP) plus interest expenses, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) of ours and any of our affiliates and subsidiaries from providing any service or product to the applicable company, its operating partnership or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries, exclusive of EBITDA directly resulting from our advisory agreement; 

&#8226; 

the earnings multiple (calculated as our total enterprise value divided by our adjusted EBITDA) for our common stock per the 12-month period preceding the termination date multiplied by our net earnings (as defined in the advisory agreement) for the 12 months preceding the termination; or 

&#8226; 

the simple average of our earnings multiples for the three fiscal years preceding the termination (calculated as our total enterprise value divided by our adjusted EBITDA for such periods) multiplied by our net earnings (as defined in the advisory agreement) for the 12 months preceding the termination; 

plus, in either case, a gross-up amount for federal and state tax liability, based on an assumed combined tax rate of 40%. Any such termination fee will be payable on or before the termination date. 

Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust have agreed that if we and Remington Lodging consummate the Transactions, that for purposes of determining the termination fee under the advisory agreement, our &#8220;Net Earnings&#8221; and &#8220;Adjusted EBITDA&#8221; shall not include Adjusted EBITDA arising under the Remington Master Management Agreement attributable to management fees, project management fees and market service fees (all as defined in the Remington Master Management Agreement) earned by Remington Lodging and/or its subsidiaries and consolidated with us. 

Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust may also terminate the applicable advisory agreement with 60 days&#8217; notice upon a change of control of such entity, if the change of control transaction is conditioned upon the termination of the advisory agreement. In such a circumstance, Ashford Trust or Ashford Prime, as applicable, would be required to pay the accrued costs and termination fee described above. 

Either Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust may also terminate the applicable advisory agreement at any time, including during the 10-year initial term, without the payment of a termination fee, upon customary events of default and our failure to cure during certain cure periods, such as our default in performance of material obligations, the filing of bankruptcy or a dissolution action and other events, as outlined in the advisory agreement. 

Upon any termination of either advisory agreement, we are expected to cooperate with and assist Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, in executing an orderly transition of the management of its assets to a new advisor, providing a full accounting of all accounts held in the name of or on behalf of such company, returning any funds held on behalf of such company and returning any and all of the books and records of such company. Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, will be responsible for paying all accrued fees and expenses and will be subject to certain non-solicitation obligations with respect to our employees upon any termination of the applicable advisory agreement other than termination as a result of change of control of our company. 

Following the 10-year initial term, we may terminate either advisory agreement prior to the expiration of each successive then-current term with 180 days&#8217; prior written notice. Additionally, we may terminate either advisory agreement if Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, defaults in the performance or observance of any material term, condition or covenant under the applicable advisory agreement; provided, however, before terminating the advisory agreement, we must give Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, written notice of the default and provide such entity with an opportunity to cure the default within 45 days, or if such default is not reasonably susceptible to cure within 45 days, such additional cure period as is reasonably necessary to cure the default (not to exceed 90 days) so long as such entity is diligently and in good faith pursuing such cure. In the event of such a termination, we will be entitled to all accrued fees and expenses. 

Fees and Expenses. 

&#8226; 

Base Fee . The total quarterly base fee per annum is based on a declining sliding scale percentage of the total market capitalization of each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust plus the Key Money Asset Management Fee (defined in our advisory agreements as the aggregate gross asset value of all key money assets multiplied by 0.7%), subject to a minimum quarterly base fee. The &#8220;total market capitalization&#8221; for purposes of determining the base fee is calculated on a quarterly basis as follows: 

(i) 

the average of the volume-weighted average price per share of common stock for Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, for each trading day of the preceding quarter multiplied by the average number of shares of common stock and common units outstanding during such quarter, on a fully-diluted basis (assuming all common units and long term incentive partnership units in the applicable operating partnership which have achieved economic parity with common units in the applicable operating partnership have been redeemed and the applicable company has elected to issue common stock of such company in satisfaction of the redemption price), plus 

(ii) 

the quarterly average of the aggregate principal amount of the consolidated indebtedness of such company (including its proportionate share of debt of any entity that is not consolidated but excluding its joint venture partners&#8217; proportionate share of consolidated debt), plus 

(iii) 

the quarterly average of the liquidation value of any outstanding preferred equity of such company, and 

(iv) 

multiplying the sum of (i), (ii), and (iii) above by the Key Money Asset Factor (defined in our advisory agreements as 1 minus the quotient resulting from dividing the aggregate gross book value of all key money assets by the aggregate gross book value of such entity&#8217;s assets (including key money assets). 

The minimum base fee for Ashford Prime, and the minimum base fee for Ashford Trust for each quarter beginning January 1, 2016 or thereafter will be equal to the greater of: 

(i) 

90% of the base fee paid for the same quarter in the prior year; and 

(ii) 

the &#8220;G&#38;A ratio&#8221; multiplied by the total market capitalization of such company. 

The &#8220;G&#38;A ratio&#8221; is calculated as the simple average of the ratios of total general and administrative expenses, including any dead deal costs, less any non-cash expenses, paid in the applicable quarter by each member of a select peer group, divided by the total market capitalization of such peer group member. The peer group for each company may be adjusted from time-to-time by mutual agreement between us and a majority of the independent directors of such company, negotiating in good faith. The base fee is payable quarterly in arrears in cash. 

&#8226; 

Incentive Fee . In each year that the Total Stockholder Return (&#8220;TSR&#8221;) of Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust exceeds the &#8220;average TSR of its peer group,&#8221; Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable is required to pay us an incentive fee. For purposes of this calculation, the TSR of such entity is calculated using a year-end stock price equal to the closing price of its common stock on the last trading day of the year as compared to the closing stock price of its common stock on the last trading day of the prior year (or, with respect to Ashford Trust, for the stub period ending December 31, 2014, the closing stock price of its common stock on November 13, 2014), in each case assuming all dividends on the common stock during such period are reinvested into additional shares of common stock of such entity. The average TSR for each member of such company&#8217;s peer group is calculated in the same manner and for the same time period, and the simple average for the entire peer group is the &#8220;average TSR for its peer group.&#8221; If the TSR of Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust exceeds the average TSR for its peer group, we will be paid an incentive fee, subject to the FCCR Condition, as defined below. 

The annual incentive fee is calculated as (i) 5% of the amount (expressed as a percentage but in no event greater than 25%) by which the annual TSR of Ashford Trust or Ashford Prime, as applicable, exceeds the average TSR for its respective peer group, multiplied by (ii) the fully diluted equity value of such company at December 31 of the applicable year. Further, with respect to Ashford Trust, for the stub period ended December 31, 2014, the product from the incentive fee calculation was reduced proportionately based on the number of days in which the advisory agreement with Ashford Trust was in effect for the calendar year 2014 divided by 365 days. To determine the fully diluted equity value, we assume that all units in the operating partnership of Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, including LTIP units that have achieved economic parity with the common units, if any, are redeemed and the applicable company has elected to issue common stock of such company in satisfaction of the redemption price and that the per share value of each share of common stock of such company is equal to the closing price of its stock on the last trading day of the year. The incentive 

fee, if any, subject to the FCCR Condition (defined below), is payable in arrears in three equal annual installments with the first installment payable on January 15 following the applicable year for which the incentive fee relates and on January 15 of the next two successive years. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon any termination of the advisory agreement for any reason, any unpaid incentive fee (including any incentive fee installment for the stub period ending on the termination date) will become fully earned and immediately due and payable without regard to the FCCR Condition defined below. Except in the case when the incentive fee is payable on the date of termination of this Agreement, up to 50% of the incentive fee may be paid by each Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, at the option of such entity, in shares its common stock of or common units of the applicable operating partnership or such entity, with the balance payable in cash, unless at the time for payment of the incentive fee: 

(i) we or our affiliates own common stock or common units in an amount (determined with reference to the closing price of the common stock of each Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, on the last trading day of the year or stub period) greater than or equal to three times the base bee for the preceding four quarters, 

(ii) payment in such securities would cause us to be subject to the provisions of the Investment Company Act, or 

(iii) payment in such securities would not be legally permissible for any reason; 

in which case, the entire Incentive Fee will be paid by Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust in cash. 

Upon the determination of the incentive fee, except in the case of any termination of the advisory agreement in which case the incentive fee for the stub period and all unpaid installments of an incentive fee shall be deemed earned by us and fully due and payable by Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, as applicable, each one-third installment of the incentive fee shall not be deemed earned by the us or otherwise payable by Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, unless such entity, as of the December 31 immediately preceding the due date for the payment of the incentive fee installment, has an FCCR of 0.20x or greater (the &#8220;FCCR Condition&#8221;). For purposes of this calculation, &#8220;FCCR&#8221; means such entity&#8217;s fixed charge coverage ratio, which is the ratio of adjusted EBITDA for the previous four consecutive fiscal quarters to fixed charges, which includes all (i) such entity and its subsidiaries&#8217; interest expense, (ii) such entity and its subsidiaries&#8217; regularly scheduled principal payments, other than balloon or similar principal payments which repay indebtedness in full and payments under cash flow mortgages applied to principal, and (iii) preferred dividends paid by such entity. 

&#8226; 

Equity Compensation . To incentivize our employees, officers, consultants, non-employee directors, affiliates and representatives to achieve the goals and business objectives of each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, as established by the boards of directors of such entities, in addition to the base fee and the incentive fee described above, the boards of directors of each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust have the authority to make annual equity awards to us or directly to our employees, officers, consultants and non-employee directors, based on achievement of certain financial and other hurdles established by such board of directors. 

&#8226; 

Expense Reimbursement . We are responsible for all wages, salaries, cash bonus payments and benefits related to our employees providing services to Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust (including any of the officers of Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust who are also officers of our company), with the exception of any equity compensation that may be awarded by Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust to our employees who provide services to Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, the provision of certain internal audit, asset management and risk management services and the international office expenses described below. Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust are each responsible to pay or reimburse us monthly for all other costs we incur on behalf of such entities or in connection with the performance of our services and duties to such companies, including, without limitation, tax, legal, accounting, advisory, investment banking and other third-party professional fees, director fees, insurance (including errors and omissions insurance and any other insurance required pursuant to the terms of the advisory agreements), debt service, taxes, underwriting, brokerage, reporting, registration, listing fees and charges, travel and entertainment expenses, conference sponsorships, transaction diligence and closing costs, dead deal costs, dividends, office space, the cost of all equity awards or compensation plans established by such companies, including the value of awards made by companies to our employees, and any other costs which are reasonably necessary for the performance by us of our duties and functions, including any expenses incurred by us to comply with new or revised laws or governmental rules or regulations that impose additional duties on Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust or us in our capacity as advisor to such entities. In addition, each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust pays a pro rata share of our office overhead and administrative expenses incurred in the performance of our duties and functions under the advisory agreements. There is no specific limitation on the amount of such reimbursements. 

In addition to the expenses described above, each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust are required to reimburse us monthly for its pro rata share (as reasonably agreed to between us and a majority of the independent directors of such company or its audit committee, chairman of its audit committee or lead director) of all reasonable international office expenses, overhead, personnel costs, travel and other costs directly related to our non-executive personnel who are located 

internationally or that oversee the operations of international assets or related to our personnel that source, investigate or provide diligence services in connection with possible acquisitions or investments internationally. Such expenses include but are not limited to, salary, wage payroll taxes and the cost of employee benefit plans. We pay or reimburse Ashford Trust for the costs associated with Ashford Trust&#8217;s current chairman emeritus, which includes a $700,000 annual stipend and the cost of all benefits currently available to him, as well as reimbursement for reasonable expenses incurred by him in connection with his service to Ashford Trust. 

&#8226; 

Additional Services. &#32;If, and to the extent that, either Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust requests us to render services on behalf of such company other than those required to be rendered by us under the advisory agreement, such additional services will be compensated separately, at market rates, as defined in the advisory agreements. 

The Ashford Trademark . &#32;We have a proprietary interest in the &#8220;Ashford&#8221; trademark, and we agreed to license its use to each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust. If at any time Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust ceases to retain us to perform advisory services for them, within 60 days following receipt of written request from us, such entity must cease to conduct business under or use the &#8220;Ashford&#8221; name or logo, as well as change its name and the names of any of its subsidiaries to a name that does not contain the name &#8220;Ashford.&#8221; 

Relationship with Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust. &#32;We advise both Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust. We are also permitted to have other advisory clients, which may include other REITs operating in the real estate industry or having the same or substantially similar investment guidelines as Ashford Trust or Ashford Prime. If either Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust materially revises its initial investment guidelines without our express written consent, we are required only to use our best judgment to allocate investment opportunities to Ashford Prime, Ashford Trust and other entities we advise, taking into account such factors as we deem relevant, in our discretion, subject to any of our then existing obligations to such other entities. Ashford Prime has agreed not to revise its initial investment guidelines to be directly competitive with Ashford Trust. Ashford Trust agrees, pursuant to the terms of the Ashford Trust advisory agreement, that it will revise its investment guidelines as necessary to avoid direct competition with (i) any entity or platform that Ashford Trust may create or spin-off in the future and (ii) any other entity advised by us, provided that in the case of clause (ii), we and Ashford Trust mutually agree to the terms of such revision of Ashford Trust&#8217;s investment guidelines. The advisory agreements give each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust the right to equitable treatment with respect to other clients of ours, but the advisory agreements do not give any entity the right to preferential treatment, except as follows: 

&#8226; 

Any new individual investment opportunities that satisfy Ashford Prime&#8217;s investment guidelines will be presented to its board of directors, which has up to 10 business days to accept any such opportunity prior to it being available to Ashford Trust or another business advised by us. 

&#8226; 

Any new individual investment opportunities that satisfy Ashford Trust&#8217;s investment guidelines will be presented to its board of directors, which has up to 10 business days to accept any such opportunity prior to it being available to Ashford Prime or another business advised by us. 

To minimize conflicts between Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, the advisory agreements require each such entity to designate an investment focus by targeted RevPAR, segments, markets and other factors or financial metrics. After consultation with us, such entity may modify or supplement its investment guidelines from time to time by giving written notice to us; however, if either Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust materially changes its investment guidelines without our express written consent, we are required only to use our best judgment to allocate investment opportunities to Ashford Prime, Ashford Trust and other entities we may advise, taking into account such factors as we deem relevant, in our discretion, subject to any then existing obligations we have to such other entities. 

When determining whether an asset satisfies the investment guidelines of either Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, we must make a good faith determination of projected RevPAR, taking into account historical RevPAR as well as such additional considerations as conversions or reposition of assets, capital plans, brand changes and other factors that may reasonably be forecasted to raise RevPAR after stabilization of such initiative. 

If Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust elect to spin-off, carve-out, split-off or otherwise consummate a transfer of a division or subset of assets for the purpose of forming a joint venture, a newly created private platform or a new publicly traded company to hold such division or subset of assets constituting a distinct asset type and/or investment guidelines, Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime have agreed that any such new entity will be advised by us pursuant to an advisory agreement containing substantially the same material terms set forth in our advisory agreement with Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable. 

Our Mutual Exclusivity Agreement 

We and Ashford LLC, our operating company, entered into a mutual exclusivity agreement with Remington Lodging, that was consented and agreed to by Mr. Monty J. Bennett, regarding potential future advisory clients for us and property management clients for Remington Lodging. Mr. Monty J. Bennett and his father Mr. Archie Bennett, Jr. are the sole owners of Remington Lodging, and Mr. Monty J. Bennett is the chief executive officer of Remington Lodging. Pursuant to this agreement, we have agreed to utilize Remington Lodging to provide property management, project management and development services for all hotels that future companies we may advise or may acquire, to the extent that we have the right, or control the right, to direct such matters, subject to certain exceptions. 

Our Financing Strategy 

We currently do not use leverage, and therefore have no market risk sensitive instruments; however, we may decide to use leverage to meet future capital needs. Our organizational documents do not limit our capacity to use leverage or the amount we may use. We may choose to utilize asset specific debt or a corporate credit facility. Our financing objective is to manage our capital structure effectively in order to provide sufficient capital to execute our business strategies and in turn add value to stockholders. We may from time to time use derivative instruments primarily to hedge against our cash flows. 

Regulation 

General . &#32;We, AIM and each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, as applicable, are subject, in certain circumstances, to supervision and regulation by state and federal governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions, which, among other things regulate public disclosures, reporting obligations and capital raising activity. As an advisor to companies that own hotel properties, the operations and properties of such entities are subject to various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas and fire and safety requirements. 

REIT Regulations . Each of Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust has elected and is qualified and expects to continue to qualify to be taxed as a REIT under Section 856 through 860 of the Code. As REITs, such companies must currently distribute, at a minimum, an amount equal to 90% of their taxable income. In addition, such companies must distribute 100% of taxable income to avoid paying corporate federal income taxes. REITs are also subject to a number of organizational and operational requirements in order to elect and maintain REIT status. These requirements include specific share ownership tests and assets and gross income composition tests. If either Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust fails to continue to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it is subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate tax rates. Even if such companies continue to qualify for taxation as REITs, they may be subject to state and local income taxes and to federal income tax and excise tax on their undistributed income. Under the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015, enacted on December 18, 2015, several Internal Revenue Code provisions relating to REITs and their stockholders were revised. These new rules were enacted with varying effective dates, some of which were retroactive. 

Americans with Disabilities Act. &#32;As the advisor to Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, we are responsible for ensuring that the hotels owned by such entities comply with applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act, or &#8220;ADA,&#8221;, to the extent that such hotels are &#8220;public accommodations&#8221; as defined by the ADA. Non-compliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we continue to assess the hotels and to advise Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust, as applicable, to make alterations as appropriate in this respect. 

Affordable Care Act. We could be subject to excise taxes under the employer mandate provisions of the Affordable Care Act ("ACA") if we did not offer affordable, minimum value health care coverage to substantially all of our full-time employees and their dependents. Any such penalty would be based on the number of full-time employees. We do not anticipate being subject to a penalty under the ACA; however, even in the event that we are, any such penalty would be less than $200,000 as we had 108 full-time employees as of December 31, 2015. 

Environmental Matters. &#32;Under various laws relating to the protection of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator (including tenants) of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property and may be required to investigate and clean up such contamination at that property or emanating from that property. These costs could be substantial and liability under these laws may attach without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at the hotels owned by Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust may expose such entities, and potentially us, to third-party liability or materially and adversely affect the ability to sell, lease or develop the real estate or to incur debt using the real estate as collateral. 

The hotels owned by Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that address a wide variety of issues, including, but not limited to, storage tanks, air emissions from emergency generators, storm water and wastewater discharges, lead-based paint, mold and mildew and waste management. These hotels incur costs to comply with these laws and regulations, and we or the property owners could be subject to fines and penalties for non-compliance. 

Some of these hotels may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other adverse conditions, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediation. The presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of the hotels owned by Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust could require a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected hotel or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from guests or employees at the hotels and others if property damage or health concerns arise. 

In the judgment of management, while we may incur significant expense complying with the various regulation to which we are subject, existing statutes and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business. However, it is not possible to forecast the nature of future legislation, regulations, judicial decisions, orders or interpretations, nor their impact upon our future business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. 

Distributions and Our Distribution Policy 

Evaluation of our distribution policy and the decision to make a distribution is made solely at the discretion of our board of directors and is based on factors including, but not limited to, our ability to generate income, availability of existing cash balances, the performance of our business, capital requirements, applicable law, access to cash in the capital markets and other financing sources, general economic conditions and economic conditions that more specifically impact our business or prospects and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. 

Future distribution levels are subject to adjustment based upon any one or more of the factors set forth above, the matters discussed under &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other document we file with the SEC under the Exchange Act and other factors that our board of directors may, from time to time, deem relevant to consider when determining an appropriate distribution. Our board of directors may also determine not to make any distribution. 

Competition 

The asset management industry is highly competitive. We compete on an industry, regional and niche basis based on a number of factors, including ability to raise capital, investment opportunities and performance, transaction execution skills, access to and retention of qualified personnel, reputation, range of products, innovation and fees for our services. Our clients compete with many third parties engaged in the hotel industry, including other hotel operating companies, ownership companies (including hotel REITs) and national and international hotel brands. Some of these competitors, including other REITs and private real estate companies and funds may have substantially greater financial and operational resources than Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust and may have greater knowledge of the markets in which we seek to invest. Such competitors may also enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. Future competition from new market entrants may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust. It may also result in higher prices, lower yields and a more narrow margin over the borrowing cost for Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust, making it more difficult to originate or acquire new investments on attractive terms. Certain competitors may also be subject to different regulatory regimes or rules that may provide them more flexibility or better access to pursue potential investments and raise capital for their managed companies. In addition, certain competitors may have higher risk tolerance, different risk assessment or a lower return threshold, which could allow them to consider a broader range of investments and to bid more aggressively for investment opportunities that we may want to pursue. 

Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust each compete with many third parties engaged in the hotel industry. Competition in the hotel industry is based on a number of factors, most notably convenience of location, brand affiliation, price, range of services, guest amenities or accommodations offered and quality of customer service. Competition is often specific to the individual markets in which properties are located and includes competition from existing and new hotels. We believe that hotels that are affiliated with leading national brands, such as the Marriott or Hilton brands, will enjoy the competitive advantages associated with operating under such brands. Increased competition could have a material adverse effect on the occupancy rate, average daily room rate and RevPAR of the hotels owned by Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust or may require capital improvements that otherwise would not have to be made, which may result in decreases in the profitability of Ashford Prime or Ashford Trust and decreased advisory fees to us. Since the fees we receive are based upon total equity market capitalization and total shareholder returns, such fees are impacted by relative performance of the share price of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime compared to competitive REITs. 

Insurance 

We are required to have insurance programs to comply with our contractual obligations and as reasonably necessary for our business. 

Shareholder Rights Plan 

On November 16, 2014, we adopted a shareholder rights plan by entering into a Rights Agreement, dated November 17, 2014, with ComputerShare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent (the &#8220;Rights Agreement&#8221;). We intend for the shareholder rights plan to improve the bargaining position of our board of directors in the event of an unsolicited offer to acquire our outstanding shares of common stock. Our board of directors implemented the rights plan by declaring a dividend of one preferred share purchase right that was paid on November 27, 2014, for each outstanding share of our common stock on November 27, 2014, to our stockholders of record on that date. Each of those rights becomes exercisable on the Distribution Date (defined below) and entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of our Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, at a price of $275 per one one-thousandth of a share of our Series A Preferred Stock represented by such a right, subject to adjustment. 

Initially, the rights will be attached to all certificates representing our common stock, and no separate certificates evidencing the rights will be issued. The Rights Agreement provides that, until the date on which the rights separate and begin trading separately from our common stock (which we refer to as the &#8220;Distribution Date&#8221;), the rights will be transferred only with the shares of our common stock. The Distribution Date will occur, and the rights would separate and begin trading separately from the shares of our common stock, and certificates representing the rights will be issued to evidence the rights, on the earlier to occur of: 

(i) 

10 business days following a public announcement, or the public disclosure of facts indicating, that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons has acquired beneficial ownership (as defined in the Rights Agreement) of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, (referred to, subject to certain exceptions as &#8220;Acquiring Persons&#8221;) (or, in the event an exchange of the rights for shares of our common stock is effected in accordance with certain provisions of the Rights Agreement and our board of directors determines that a later date is advisable, then such later date that is not more than 20 days after such public announcement); or 

(ii) 

10 business days (or such later date as may be determined by action of our board of directors prior to such time as any person becomes an Acquiring Person) of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock following the commencement of, or announcement of an intention to make, a tender offer or exchange offer the consummation of which would result in the beneficial ownership by a person or group of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock. 

The rights also become exercisable if a person or group that already beneficially owns 10% or more of our common stock acquires any additional shares of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors, except that the Distribution Date will not occur as a result of our company, one of our subsidiaries, one of our employee benefit plans or a trustee for one of those plans, or Mr. Monty J. Bennett and certain of his affiliates and associates (so long as they own 20% or less of our outstanding common stock), acquiring additional shares of our common stock, and those persons will not be Acquiring Persons. 

If a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person at any time, with certain limited exceptions, the rights will become exercisable for shares of our common stock (or, in certain circumstances, shares of our Series A Preferred Stock or other of our securities that are similar) having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. From and after the announcement that any person has become an Acquiring Person, if certificated rights are or were at any time on or after the earlier of (i) the date of such announcement or (ii) the Distribution Date acquired or beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person or an associate or affiliate of an Acquiring Person, such rights shall become void, and any holder of such rights shall thereafter have no right to exercise such rights. In addition, if, at any time after a person becomes an Acquiring Person, (i) we consolidate with, or merge with and into, any other person; (ii) any person consolidates with us, or merges with and into us and we are the continuing or surviving corporation of such merger and, in connection with such merger, all or part of the shares of our common stock are or will be changed into or exchanged for stock or other securities of any other person (or of ours) or cash or any other property; or (iii) 50% or more of our consolidated assets or earning power (as defined in the Rights Agreement) are sold, then proper provision will be made so that each holder of a right will thereafter have the right to receive, upon the exercise of a right at the then current exercise price of the right, that number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company which at the time of such transaction will have a market value of two times the exercise price of the right. Upon the occurrence of an event of the type described in this paragraph, if our board of directors so elects, we will deliver upon payment of the exercise price of a right an amount of cash or securities equivalent in value to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of a right. If we fail to meet that obligation within 30 days following of the announcement that a person has become an Acquiring Person, we must deliver, upon exercise of a right but without requiring payment of the exercise price then in effect, shares of our common stock (to the extent available) and cash equal in value to the 

difference between the value of the shares of our common stock otherwise issuable upon the exercise of a right and the exercise price then in effect. 

Although the rights were initially set to expire on March 15, 2015, on February 25, 2015, our board of directors extended the expiration date until the date of our 2015 annual stockholder meeting, at which time the stockholders approved further extension of the expiration date to February 25, 2018. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we had 108 &#32;full time employees. These employees directly or indirectly perform various acquisition, development, asset and investment management, capital markets, accounting, tax, risk management, legal, redevelopment, and corporate management functions for Ashford Prime and Ashford Trust. 

Emerging Growth Company Status 

We are an &#8220;emerging growth company,&#8221; as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (&#8220;JOBS Act&#8221;), and we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not &#8220;emerging growth companies.&#8221; These exemptions include not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports, proxy statements and registration statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. 

Although we are still evaluating the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of some or all of the reduced regulatory and reporting requirements that are available to us as long as we qualify as an emerging growth company, except that we have irrevocably elected not to take advantage of the extension of time to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards available under Section 102(b) of the JOBS Act. 

We, in general, remain as an emerging growth company for up to five full fiscal years following our separation from Ashford Trust. We would cease to be an emerging growth company and, therefore, become ineligible to rely on the above exemptions, if we: 

&#8226; 

have more than $1 billion in annual revenue in a fiscal year; 

&#8226; 

issue more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period; or 

&#8226; 

become a &#8220;large accelerated filer&#8221; as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2, which would occur after: (i) we have filed at least one annual report pursuant to the Exchange Act; (ii) we have been an SEC-reporting company for at least 12 months; and (iii) the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter. 

Access To Reports and Other Information 

We maintain a website at www.ashfordinc.com. On our website, we make available free of charge our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and other reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the SEC. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and Board Committee Charters are also available free-of-charge on our website or can be made available in print upon request. 

All reports filed with the SEC may also be read and copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, DC 20549-1090. Further information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, all of our filed reports can be obtained at the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. 

