 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

We are a leading global technology solutions provider to high-value segments of the food &#38; beverage and air transportation industries. We design, manufacture, test and service technologically sophisticated systems and products for customers through our JBT FoodTech and JBT AeroTech segments. 

JBT FoodTech markets its solutions and services to multinational and regional industrial food and beverage companies. The product offerings of our FoodTech businesses include: 

&#8226; 

Protein . JBT FoodTech provides comprehensive solutions to our Protein customers that include mixing/grinding, injecting, marinating, tumbling, portioning, coating, frying, and freezing for poultry, beef, pork and seafood, as well as ready-to-eat meals, fruits, vegetables, dairy, and bakery products. 

&#8226; 

Liquid Foods . Our Liquid Foods portfolio includes fruit and juice solutions that extract, concentrate and aseptically process citrus, tomato and other fruits, vegetables, and juices. It also includes in-container solutions for the filling, closing and sterilization of fruits, vegetables, soups, sauces, dairy, and pet food products as well as ready-to-eat meals in a wide variety of modern packages. Strategic acquisitions completed in 2015 have added to our product portfolio significant capabilities in the dairy and juice sterilization and filling segments, as well as in customized skidded systems and tank and vessel manufacturing capabilities for a broad array of market segments. 

&#8226; 

Automated Systems . JBT FoodTech provides fully integrated automated guided vehicle systems for repetitive material movement requirements, for example in manufacturing and warehouse facilities. 

JBT AeroTech markets its solutions and services to domestic and international airport authorities, passenger airlines, airfreight and ground handling companies, military forces and defense contractors. The product offerings of our AeroTech businesses include: 

&#8226; 

Mobile Equipment . JBT AeroTech&#8217;s portfolio of mobile air transportation equipment includes commercial and military cargo loading, aircraft deicing, aircraft towing, and ground aircraft power and cooling systems. 

&#8226; 

Fixed Equipment . JBT AeroTech provides gate equipment for passenger boarding. 

&#8226; 

Airport Services . JBT AeroTech includes the maintenance of airport equipment, systems, and facilities. 

For financial information about our business segments see Note 16 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our principal executive offices are located at 70 West Madison, Suite 4400, Chicago, Illinois 60602. 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

JBT FoodTech 

JBT FoodTech supplies both customized industrial and turnkey solutions and services used in the food processing industry. We design, manufacture and service technologically sophisticated food processing systems for the preparation of meat, seafood and poultry products, ready-to-eat meals, shelf stable packaged foods, bakery products, juice and dairy products, and fruit and vegetable products. 

We believe our success is derived from our continued innovation, applying our differentiated and proprietary technologies to meet our customers&#8217; food processing needs. We continually strive to improve our existing solutions and develop new solutions by working closely with our customers to meet their evolving needs. 

&#160; 

Our historically strong position in the markets we serve has provided us with a large installed base of systems and equipment. We deliver industrial capacity food processing equipment which includes freezers, citrus juice extractors, sterilization systems and coating systems. The installed base of our equipment provides a stream of recurring revenue from aftermarket products, parts, 

services, and lease arrangements. Recurring revenue accounted for 45% of our FoodTech total revenue in 2015. Our installed base also provides us with strong, long-term customer relationships from which we derive information for new product development to meet the evolving needs of our food processing customers. We also provide fully integrated automated guided vehicle systems for repetitive material handling requirements, for example in manufacturing and warehouse facilities. 

We have operations strategically positioned around the world to serve our existing JBT FoodTech equipment base located in more than 100 countries. Our principal production facilities are located in the United States (California, Florida, New York, Ohio, and Wisconsin), Brazil, Belgium, Italy, Sweden, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, South Africa and China. In addition to sales and services offices based in more than 25 countries, we also support our customers in their development of new food products and processes as well as the refinement and testing of their current applications through ten technical centers located in the United States (California, Florida, and Ohio), Mexico, Brazil, Belgium, Italy, Spain, Sweden, the Netherlands and China. Our global presence allows us to provide direct customized support to customers virtually anywhere they process foods. 

Solutions, Products and Services 

We offer a broad portfolio of systems, equipment and services to our customers which are often sold as part of a fully integrated processing line solution. Our systems are typically customized to meet the specific customer application needs. Thus, actual production capacity ranges vary and are dependent on the food and product packaging type being processed. 

Protein . &#32;&#32;Our fully integrated processing lines often span from the initial point of entry of raw products through further processing. Our Protein systems include Wolf-Tec Polar Dissolver brine preparation, IMAX injection, Polar Massager marination, Polar Flex Carve maceration, TMAX tenderization, TVI portion cutting systems, the DSI&#8482; waterjet portioners, slicers and attribute scanner/sorters; the Stein&#8482; coating and seasoning applicators, teflon coated Formcook Contact and Combi Cookers, THERMoFIN&#174; fryers, GYRoCOMPACT&#174; spiral ovens, JSO Jet Stream&#174; ovens; and Double D&#8482; Revoband&#8482; linear ovens and cooking systems. Although our solutions are primarily used in the processing of meat and poultry (including nuggets, strips, and wings), we also provide systems that portion, coat or cook other food products ranging from breads and pizzas, seafood, and ready-to-eat meals to pet food. 

With our first commercial food processing freezers developed in the 1960s, we remain a leading supplier of freezing and chilling solutions to the food processing industry. We design, assemble, test, and install industry-leading technologies under the Frigoscandia&#174; brand, which include the GYRoCOMPACT&#174; self-stacking spiral, the FLoFREEZE&#174; individual quick freezing (IQF) system, and the ADVANTEC&#8482; linear/impingement freezing system, as well as flat product and contact freezers, chillers and proofers. We also offer a structure-supported Northfield SuperTRAK&#174; spiral freezer for high volume, large packaged products. Our freezers are designed to meet the most stringent demands for quality, economy, food safety and user-friendliness. Our industrial freezers can be found in plants that are processing food products ranging from meat, seafood, and poultry to bakery products and ready-to-eat meals, fruits, vegetables, and dairy products. Protein technology offerings accounted for 31% of our total revenue in 2015. 

Liquid Foods . &#32;&#32;We offer comprehensive processing lines from primary juice extraction through end of line packaging. In the primary space, we supply industrial citrus processing equipment. Our citrus processing solutions include citrus extractors, finishers, pulp systems, evaporators, and citrus ingredient recovery systems as well as aseptic systems (including sterilizers, fillers, and controls) integrated with bulk aseptic storage systems for not-from-concentrate orange juice. Our READYGo&#8482; family of skid-mounted products includes solutions for aseptic sterilization and bulk filling, as well as ingredients and by-products recovery and clean-up systems. In addition to our high capacity industrial extractors, we also offer point of use Fresh&#8217;n Squeeze&#174; produce juicers. These patented juicers are used around the world in hotels, restaurants, coffee shops, grocery stores, convenience stores, quick service restaurants, and juice bars. 

We are among the leading worldwide suppliers of fruit, vegetable, and juice processing equipment and aseptic sterilization and bulk filling systems. Our fruit, vegetable, and juice processing lines are comprised of extraction, finishing, heating and mixing equipment, enzyme inactivators, evaporators, flash coolers, sterilizers, and aseptic fillers. Our equipment is primarily sold as an integrated processing line, but can also satisfy a specific need within a line. Our tomato processing lines are installed with processors throughout the world&#8217;s key tomato growing regions and produce a range of finished tomato products including tomato paste, concentrates, peeled tomato products, diced tomatoes, salsa, pizza sauce, ketchup, and pureed and crushed tomatoes. Our aseptic processing lines are used in the bulk processing of a wide range of temperate and tropical fruits into juices, particulates, purees, and concentrates. These fruit products are used as ingredients for dairy products (yogurts, smoothies, flavored milk, and ice cream), bakery products, and fruit-based beverages. 

We provide technology solutions and products to extend the life, improve the appearance and preserve the taste of fresh fruits and vegetables. Once protected, fresh fruits and vegetables can be individually labeled by our fast and efficient produce labeling 

systems. We also provide an integrated equipment and aftermarket service program, including the patented Bin Scrubber System, the Single Pass Dryer and Smart Dryer System, and additional ancillary produce processing technologies. 

We are a global supplier of fully integrated industrial sterilization systems that enable production of shelf stable foods in a wide variety of flexible and rigid packages. These integrated solutions for the processing of shelf-stable food and liquid products include a line of continuous hydrostatic sterilizers, our continuous rotary sterilizers, Steam Water Spray static and SuperAgi&#8482; batch retorts, XL-series fillers, SeamTec&#8482; and X-series closers, material handling systems and LOG-TEC&#174; thermal process controls. We are a recognized U.S. Department of Agriculture and Food and Drug Administration Food Process Authority and offer the largest selection of sterilization products in the industry. We also provide automated batch retorts which can process an array of flexible and rigid packages such as plastic pouches, cartons, glass and cans. Our solutions also include specialized material handling systems to automate the handling and tracking of processed and unprocessed containers. Additionally, we offer modeling software as well as thermal processing controls that help our customers optimize and track their cooking processes to allow real time modifications in the case of process deviations. 

In 2015, we acquired the Stork Food and Dairy Systems and A&#38;B Process Systems businesses, adding significant capabilities in the dairy and juice sterilization and filling segments as well as in customized skidded systems and tank and vessel manufacturing capabilities for a broad array of market segments, respectively. 

Liquid Foods solution offerings accounted for 30% of our total revenue in 2015. 

Automated Systems . &#32;We also provide fully integrated automated guided vehicle systems for repetitive material handling requirements in manufacturing and warehouse facilities. We provide engineering services and simulations to evaluate the material handling requirements, automated guided vehicle system hardware and software, and hardware and software integration for a complete, seamless solution. 

Aftermarket Products, Parts, and Services . &#32;We provide aftermarket products, parts, and services for all of our integrated food processing systems and equipment. We provide retrofits and refurbishments to accommodate changing operational requirements, and we supply our own brand of food grade lubricants and cleaners designed specifically for our equipment. We also provide continuous, proactive service to our customers including the fulfillment of preventative maintenance agreements, consulting services such as water treatment, corrosion monitoring control, food safety and process auditing, and the expertise of on-site technical personnel. In addition to helping our customers reduce their operating costs and improve efficiencies, our customer service focus also helps us maintain strong commercial relationships and provides us with ongoing access to information about our customers&#8217; requirements and strategies to foster continuing product development. Our aftermarket products, parts, and services coupled with our large installed base of food processing systems and equipment, provide us with a strong base for growing recurring revenue. Sales of aftermarket products, parts and services are consolidated within the total revenue of their related JBT FoodTech businesses. 

JBT AeroTech 

JBT AeroTech supplies customized solutions and services used for applications in the air transportation industry, including airport authorities, airlines, airfreight, and ground handling companies, the military and defense contractors. We believe our strong market positions result from our ability to customize our equipment and services utilizing differentiated technology to meet the specific needs of our customers. We continually strive to improve our existing technologies and develop new technologies by working closely with our well established customer base. 

&#160; 

There is a significant installed base of our airport and airline equipment around the world. We have delivered the largest volume of cargo loaders, passenger boarding bridges, and aircraft deicers. We have also sold a significant number of mobile passenger steps, cargo transporters, and tow tractors that are operating at airports around the world. This installed base provides a stream of recurring revenue from aftermarket parts, products, and services. Recurring revenue accounted for 34% of AeroTech total revenue in 2015. Our installed base also offers continuous access to customer feedback for improvements and new product development. 

&#160; 

JBT AeroTech products have been delivered to more than 100 countries. To support this equipment, we have operations located throughout the world. Our principal production facilities are located in the United States (Florida and Utah), China, Mexico and Spain. To augment our sourcing and manufacturing capabilities, we continue to utilize our dedicated sourcing resources in India and China as well as regional manufacturing in Asia. We also have sales and services offices located in nine countries and collaborative relationships with independent sales representatives, distributors, and service providers in over thirty additional countries. 

Solutions, Products, and Services 

We offer a broad portfolio of systems, equipment, and services to airport authorities, airlines, air cargo handlers, ground handling companies, military customers and defense contractors. 

&#160; 

Mobile Equipment . &#32;&#32;We supply air cargo loaders, aircraft deicers, and mobile power and environmental air conditioning systems to commercial air passenger and freight carriers, ground handlers, military customers and defense contractors. 

Our Commander&#8482; loaders service containerized narrow-body and wide-body jet aircraft and are available in a wide range of configurations. Our Tempest&#8482; aircraft deicers offer a broad range of options that can be configured to meet customers&#8217; specific and regional need to provide efficient aircraft deicing while on the tarmac. We manufacture and supply a full array of B-series conventional and Expeditor&#8482; towbarless aircraft tow tractors for moving aircraft without consumption of jet fuel, mobile passenger steps for tarmac boarding and deplaning, and self-propelled transporters for pallet and container handling. 

&#160; 

Airlines and ground handling companies face increased pressure to reduce emissions and minimize fuel usage. We have a long history of delivering alternative fuel ground support equipment that provides a solution to these environmental and operational challenges. Our alternative fuel design approach is to provide modular ground support equipment, capable of being powered by a variety of power sources. Our electric powered product offering includes Commander cargo loaders, cargo transporters, conventional aircraft pushback tractors, and passenger boarding steps. We also offer electric retrofit kits for our existing delivered base of diesel powered Commander cargo loaders. 

We manufacture a variety of sizes and configurations of auxiliary equipment including 400 Hertz ground power and preconditioned air units that supply aircraft requirements for electrical power and cooled air circulation for the environmental control system (air-conditioning) and main engine starting during ground operations. 

Within mobile equipment, we also have a portfolio of military equipment, including a wide range of ground power mobile air conditioning, aircraft air compressors, air start, and bleed air units for the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Navy, international military forces, airframe manufacturers and defense contractors. Mobile equipment technology offerings accounted for 16% of our total revenue in 2015. 

Fixed Equipment . &#32;We supply airport gate equipment. Our Jetway&#174; passenger boarding bridges have set the standard for airlines and airport authorities to move passengers between the terminal building and the aircraft since 1959. Our passenger boarding bridges support a range of aircraft types, from regional jets up to the Airbus A380. Within fixed equipment, we also supply point-of-use and mobile 400 Hertz and pre-conditioned air units that enable our customers to reduce fuel consumption and emissions by minimizing requirements to use auxiliary power units or aircraft engines while parked at the gate. We also offer aircraft in-ground service pits to provide utility access on airport ramps, hangars and remote parking areas. Fixed equipment accounted for 12% of our total revenue in 2015. 

Airport Services . &#32;&#32;We are an industry provider for the design and management of technical support programs supplied to airlines and airports at over 30 major locations throughout the United States. Our specialty services extend to expertise in the development of sustainable and value orientated operation, maintenance, and repair of sophisticated in-line baggage handling systems, gate equipment, terminals, facilities, and ground support equipment. We also offer technology for enterprise asset management and real-time operations monitoring with our patented iOPS&#8482; suite. This product links alert management notification with mobile capability for automated work order generation, as well as immediate dispatch of service technicians that delivers improved productivity, greater equipment availability, and lower cost. 

Aftermarket Products, Parts, and Services . &#32;We provide aftermarket products, parts, and services for our installed base of JBT AeroTech equipment. We also provide retrofits to accommodate changing operational requirements and continuous, proactive service, including, in some cases, on-site technical personnel. These systems and other services represent an integrated approach to addressing critical problems faced by our customers and ensure that we remain well positioned to respond to their new requirements and strategic initiatives through our strong customer relations. Sales of aftermarket products, parts and services are consolidated within the total revenue of their associated JBT AeroTech businesses. 

In support of our focus and strategy of meeting our customers&#8217; needs, we have developed a global parts service network to enable us to market with confidence our ability to &#8220;provide the right part in the right place.&#8221; Our highly experienced global parts representatives help reduce equipment downtime by providing fast, accurate responses to technical questions. We also provide worldwide operations and maintenance training programs to provide maintenance technicians with the tools necessary to deliver the highest possible level of systems reliability. 

OTHER BUSINESS INFORMATION RELEVANT TO ALL OF OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

Order Backlog 

For information regarding order backlog, refer to the section entitled &#8220;Inbound Orders and Order Backlog&#8221; in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

All of our business segments purchase carbon steel, stainless steel, aluminum, and steel castings and forgings both domestically and internationally. We do not use single source suppliers for the majority of our raw material purchases and believe the available supplies of raw materials are adequate to meet our needs. 

Research and Development 

The objectives of our research and development programs are to create new products and business opportunities in relevant fields, and to improve existing products. 

For additional financial information about our research and development activities, refer to Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Sales and Marketing 

We sell and market our products and services predominantly through a direct sales force, supplemented with independent distributors and sales representatives. Our experienced international sales force is comprised of individuals with strong technical expertise in our products and services and the industries in which they are sold. 

We support our sales force with marketing and training programs that are designed to increase awareness of our product offerings and highlight our differentiation while providing a set of sales tools to aid in the sales of our technology solutions. We actively employ a broad range of marketing programs to inform and educate customers, the media, industry analysts, and academia through targeted newsletters, our web site, seminars, trade shows, user groups, and conferences. 

Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property 

We own a number of United States and foreign patents, trademarks, and licenses that are cumulatively important to our business. We own approximately 752 United States and foreign patents and have approximately 202 patent applications pending in the United States and abroad. Further, we license certain intellectual property rights to or from third parties. We also own numerous United States and foreign trademarks and trade names and have approximately 385 registrations and pending applications in the United States and abroad. Developing and maintaining a strong intellectual property portfolio is an important component of our strategy to extend our technology leadership. However, we do not believe that the loss of any one or group of related patents, trademarks, or licenses would have a material adverse effect on our overall business. 

Competition 

We conduct business worldwide and compete with large multinational or regional companies as well as a variety of local and regional companies, which typically are focused on a specific application, technology or geographical area. 

We compete by leveraging our industry expertise to provide differentiated and proprietary technology, integrated systems, high product quality and reliability, and comprehensive aftermarket service. We strive to provide our customers with equipment that delivers their lowest total cost of ownership, distinguishing ourselves by providing excellent equipment uptime and increased yields with improved final product quality. 

JBT FoodTech&#8217;s major competitors include Advanced Equipment Inc.; Alit SRL; &#32; Allpax Products, Inc.; Atlas Pacific Engineering Company, Inc.; Barry-Wehmiller Companies, Inc.; Brown International Corp.; CFT S.p.A.; Cooling and Applied Technology, Inc.; Egemin Automation Inc.; Elettric 80 S.p.a. Italia; Ferrum; Food Processing Equipment Company; FPS Process Foods Solutions; GEA Group Aktiengesellschaft; Heat &#38; Control, Inc.; Heinen Freezing; Hydrolock; I.J. White Systems; IQF Frost AB; Krones; Marel hf.; METALQUIMIA, S.A.; MYCOM; Middleby Corporation; Nantong Freezing Equipment Company, Ltd.; Provisur Technologies, Inc.; Scanico A/S; Shibuya Corporation; Starfrost; Statco Engineering; Steriflow SAS.; Tetra Laval; and Tecnopool S.p.A. 

JBT AeroTech&#8217;s major competitors include Cavotec SA; Elite Line Services Inc.; ERMC; .TwistAero; Global Ground Support LLC; Goldhofer AG; Illinois Tool Works Inc.; Mallaghan Engineering Ltd; Siemens Postal, Parcel &#38; Airport Logistics GmbH; Shenzhen CIMC-TianDa Airport Support Ltd.; ThyssenKrupp AG; TLD Group SAS; Trepel Airport Equipment GmbH; Textron Inc.-Tug Technologies; Vanderlande Industries B.V.; Vestergaard Company A/S; and Weihai Guangtai Airport Equipment Co., LTD. 

Employees 

We have approximately 4,200 employees with approximately 2,700 located in the United States. Approximately 8% of our employees in the United States are represented by two collective bargaining agreements. The first covers most of those employees through August of 2019, and the second covers employees through December of 2016. 

Outside the United States, we enter into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary. The provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. Approximately 62% of our international employees are covered under national employee unions. 

We maintain good employee relations and have successfully concluded all of our recent negotiations without a work stoppage. However, we cannot predict the outcome of future contract negotiations. 

Customers 

No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in any of the last three fiscal years. 

Government Contracts 

We supply equipment and logistics support to the U.S. Department of Defense and international forces. The amount of equipment and parts supplied to these programs is dependent upon annual government appropriations and levels of military spending. In addition, United States defense contracts are unilaterally terminable at the option of the United States government with compensation for work completed and costs incurred. Contracts with the United States government and defense contractors are subject to special laws and regulations, the noncompliance with which may result in various sanctions that could materially affect our ongoing government business. 

Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations governing the prevention of pollution and the protection of environmental quality. If we fail to comply with these environmental laws and regulations, administrative, civil, and criminal penalties may be imposed, and we may become subject to regulatory enforcement actions in the form of injunctions and cease and desist orders. We may also be subject to civil claims arising out of an accident or other event causing environmental pollution. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for our own acts even though these actions were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. 

Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, referred to as CERCLA, and related state laws and regulations, joint and several liability can be imposed without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the owner and operator of a contaminated site where a hazardous substance release occurred and any company that transported, disposed of, or arranged for the transport or disposal of hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, and including hazardous substances generated by any closed operations or facilities. In addition, neighboring landowners or other third parties may file claims for personal injury, property damage, and recovery of response cost. We may also be subject to the corrective action provisions of the Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and analogous state laws that require owners and operators of facilities that treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste to clean up releases of hazardous waste constituents into the environment associated with their operations. 

Some of our facilities and operations are also governed by laws and regulations relating to worker health and workplace safety, including the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA. We believe that appropriate precautions are taken to protect our employees and others from harmful exposure to potentially hazardous materials handled and managed at our facilities, and that we operate in substantial compliance with all OSHA or similar regulations. 

We are also subject to laws and regulations related to conflict minerals, export compliance, local hiring and anti-corruption, and we have adopted policies, procedures and employee training programs that are designed to facilitate compliance with those laws and regulations. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

A significant portion of our consolidated revenue is generated in markets outside of the United States. For financial information about geographic areas see Note 16 of our financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Available Information 

All periodic and current reports, registration statements, and other filings that we are required to make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, proxy statements and other information are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. You may access and read our SEC filings free of charge through our website at www.jbtcorporation.com , under &#8220;Investor Relations &#8211; Corporate Information &#8211; SEC Filings,&#8221; or the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . These reports are also available to read and copy at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room by contacting the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

The information contained on or connected to our website, www.jbtcorporation.com , is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file with the SEC. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The executive officers of JBT Corporation, together with the offices currently held by them, their business experience and their ages as of February 19, 2016, are as follows: 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Office 

Thomas W. Giacomini 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 

Brian A. Deck 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Steven R. Smith 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Division President-JBT FoodTech 

David C. Burdakin 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Division President-JBT AeroTech 

James L. Marvin 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 

Mark K. Montague 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Human Resources 

Megan J. Rattigan 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Vice President and Controller 

THOMAS W. GIACOMINI became the President and Chief Executive Officer of JBT Corporation as well as a member of the JBT Board of Directors in September 2013. In May 2014, Mr. Giacomini was elected Chairman of the Board. Prior to joining JBT, he served as Vice President (since February 2008) of Dover Corporation, a diversified global manufacturer, and President and Chief Executive Officer (since November 2011) of Dover Engineered Systems. Prior to serving in these roles, Mr. Giacomini served as President (from April 2009 to November 2011) and Chief Executive Officer (from July 2009 to November 2011) of Dover Industrial Products and President (from October 2007 to July 2009) of Dover's Material Handling Platform. Mr. Giacomini joined Dover in 2003 following its acquisition of Warn Industries, an industrial manufacturer specializing in vehicle performance enhancing equipment. During his 12 year tenure at Warn Industries he held a variety of leadership roles including President and Chief Operating Officer. Prior to joining Warn Industries, Mr. Giacomini held various positions at TRW, Inc. Since August 2015, Mr. Giacomini has served as a director of Clarcor, Inc., which markets and manufactures mobile, industrial and environmental filtration products. 

BRIAN A. DECK became the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of JBT Corporation in February 2014. In May 2014, Mr. Deck&#8217;s title changed to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and he was appointed Treasurer. In December 2014, Mr. Deck appointed a Treasurer and resigned from that position. Prior to joining JBT, he served as Chief Financial Officer (since May 2011) of National Material L.P., a private diversified industrial holding company. Mr. Deck served as Vice President of Finance and Treasury (from November 2007 to May 2011) and as Director, Corporate Financial Planning and Analysis (from August 2005 to November 2007) of Ryerson Inc., a metals distributor and processor. Prior to his service with Ryerson, Mr. Deck had increasing responsibilities with General Electric Capital, Bank One (now JPMorgan Chase &#38; Co.), and Cole Taylor Bank. 

STEVEN R. SMITH became the Vice President and Division Manager-JBT FoodTech in December 2013. In May 2014, Mr. Smith&#8217;s title changed to Executive Vice President and Division President- JBT FoodTech. Previously Mr. Smith served as our Vice President and Division Manager-Food Processing Systems (since October 2011). Mr. Smith joined FMC Corporation in 1989 as a Business Planner with FMC's Petroleum Equipment Group in Houston, Texas. Since then, he has served in a variety of sales, marketing, and line management roles within FMC Corporation and FMC Technologies, Inc., JBT's previous parent companies, as well as with JBT FoodTech, including most recently serving as the General Manager for the America's Operations of FoodTech's Food Solutions and Services Division from 2003 to 2011. 

DAVID C. BURDAKIN became the Vice President and Division Manager-JBT AeroTech in January 2014. In May 2014, Mr. Burdakin&#8217;s title changed to Executive Vice President and Division President- JBT AeroTech. Prior to joining JBT, he worked as an independent consultant and as Non-Executive Chairman of Mayline Corporation, a private equity owned industrial company (2012 to 2013). Prior to Mayline, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer (2007 to 2012) of Paladin Brands, a leading independent manufacturer of attachment tools for construction equipment including mobile aviation support equipment. Prior to that, Mr. Burdakin progressed through various leadership roles at HNI Corporation (1993 to 2007), including seven years as President of The HON Company, HNI's largest operating company. Prior to joining HNI, he held various positions at Illinois Tool Works Inc. and Bendix Industrial Group. During 2015, Mr. Burdakin served as a Director of Mayline Corporation. 

JAMES L. MARVIN became our Executive Vice President and General Counsel in May 2014, and has served as Secretary since July 2008. From July 2008 until May 2014, Mr. Marvin served as Deputy General Counsel and Secretary, acting as Division Counsel for JBT AeroTech and managing corporate legal matters. Mr. Marvin joined FMC Technologies, Inc. in April 2003, serving as Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, acting as Division Counsel for FMC Technologies&#8217; Airport Systems Division and managing corporate legal matters. Before joining FMC Technologies in 2003, Mr. Marvin served in the roles of Chief Corporate Counsel and Division Counsel for Corporate Finance at Heller Financial, Inc., a publicly-traded middle-market financial services business. Mr. Marvin was previously a partner with the Chicago-based law firm Katten Muchin Zavis, with a practice focused in commercial financial transactions. Mr. Marvin began his professional career as a corporate securities attorney with O&#8217;Connor Cavanagh Anderson Westover Killingsworth &#38; Beshears in Phoenix, Arizona. 

MARK K. MONTAGUE has served as our Vice President of Human Resources since August 2008. In May 2014, Mr. Montague&#8217;s title changed to Executive Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Montague worked for Molex, Inc., where he served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Human Resources since 2006. From 1999 to 2006, Mr. Montague served as Vice President, Human Resources, Americas Region. Prior to Molex, Mr. Montague worked for Whirlpool Corporation, serving as its Vice President, Human Resources, North America Appliance Group from 1997 to 1998, its Group Director, Human Resources and Quality, Corporate Technology Group from 1996 to 1997, and as its Group Director, Human Resources, Manufacturing and Technology in 1996. From 1992 through 1996, Mr. Montague worked for the consulting group, Competitive Human Resources Strategies. Mr. Montague worked for Whirlpool Corporation from 1981 through 1992, in a variety of Human Resources Group Director and Vice President positions, and as a Labor Relations Attorney from 1981 to 1984. Mr. Montague began his professional career as an attorney with Shughart, Thomson &#38; Kilroy. 

MEGAN J. RATTIGAN became a Vice President in August 2014 and has served as our Controller since December 2013. Previously, Ms. Rattigan served as our Chief Accounting Officer (since November 2008) and Director of Financial Control (since July 2008). Ms. Rattigan was FMC Technologies&#8217; Manager of Financial Reporting and Accounting Research from April 2005 until July 2008. Prior to that, Ms. Rattigan served as a consultant to FMC Technologies from January 2002 until April 2005. From July 1998 until December 2001, Ms. Rattigan was Director of Finance for Chart House Enterprises, Inc. Ms. Rattigan is a certified public accountant and began her professional career in the Assurance practice of Ernst &#38; Young LLP in 1992. 

