 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

General 

References to &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our company&#8221; refer to American Assets Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, including American Assets Trust, L.P., a Maryland limited partnership, of which we are the sole general partner and which we refer to in this report as our Operating Partnership. 

We are a full service, vertically integrated and self-administered real estate investment trust, or REIT, that owns, operates, acquires and develops high quality retail, office, multifamily and mixed-use properties in attractive, high-barrier-to-entry markets in Southern California, Northern California, Oregon, Washington, Texas and Hawaii. As of December 31, 2015 , our portfolio is comprised of ten &#32;retail shopping centers; seven &#32;office properties; a mixed-use property consisting of a 369-room all-suite hotel and a retail shopping center; and five &#32;multifamily properties. Additionally, as of December 31, 2015 , we owned land at five of our properties that we classified as held for development and construction in progress. Our core markets include San Diego, the San Francisco Bay Area, Portland, Oregon, Bellevue, Washington and Oahu, Hawaii. 

We are a Maryland corporation that was formed on July 16, 2010 to acquire the entities owning various controlling and noncontrolling interests in real estate assets owned and/or managed by Ernest S. Rady or his affiliates, including the Ernest Rady Trust U/D/T March 13, 1983, or the Rady Trust, and did not have any operating activity until the consummation of our initial public offering and the related acquisition of our Predecessor (as defined below) on January 19, 2011. After the completion of our initial public offering and the Formation Transactions (as defined below) on January 19, 2011, our operations have been carried on through our Operating Partnership. Our company, as the sole general partner of our Operating Partnership, has control of our Operating Partnership and owned 71.7% &#32;of our Operating Partnership as of December 31, 2015 . Accordingly, we consolidate the assets, liabilities and results of operations of our Operating Partnership. 

Our &#8220;Predecessor&#8221; is not a legal entity but rather a combination of entities whose assets included entities owned and/or controlled by Ernest S. Rady and his affiliates, including the Rady Trust, which in turn owned (1) controlling interests in entities owning 17 properties and the property management business of American Assets, Inc. and (2) noncontrolling interests in entities owning four properties (the assets described at (1) and (2) are the &#8220;Acquired Assets,&#8221; and do not include our Predecessor's noncontrolling 25% ownership interest in Novato FF Venture, LLC, the entity that owns the Fireman's Fund Headquarters in Novato, California). The &#8220;Formation Transactions&#8221; included the acquisition by our Operating Partnership of the (a) Acquired Assets, (b) the entities that own Waikiki Beach Walk (a mixed-used property consisting of a retail portion and a hotel portion), or the Waikiki Beach Walk entities, and (c) the entities that own Solana Beach Towne Centre and Solana Beach Corporate Centre, or the Solana Beach Centre entities (including our Predecessor's ownership interest in these entities). 

As noted above, since our initial public offering and the Formation Transactions occurred on January 19, 2011, the results of operations and financial condition for the entities acquired by us in connection with our initial public offering and related Formation Transactions are not included in certain historical financial statements. Our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 reflect the results of operations and financial condition for our Predecessor together with the entities we acquired at the time of our initial public offering, namely, the Waikiki Beach Walk entities and the Solana Beach Centre entities. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe the following competitive strengths distinguish us from other owners and operators of commercial real estate and will enable us to take advantage of new acquisition and development opportunities, as well as growth opportunities within our portfolio: 

&#8226; 

Irreplaceable Portfolio of High Quality Retail, Office and Multifamily Properties. &#32;We have acquired and developed a high quality portfolio of retail, office and multifamily properties located in affluent neighborhoods and sought-after business centers in Southern California, Northern California, Portland, Oregon, Bellevue, Washington, San Antonio, Texas and Oahu, Hawaii. Many of our properties are located in in-fill locations where developable land is scarce or where we believe current zoning, environmental and entitlement regulations significantly restrict new development. We believe that the location of many of our properties will provide us an advantage in terms of generating higher internal revenue growth on a relative basis. 

&#8226; 

Experienced and Committed Senior Management Team with Strong Sponsorship. &#32;The members of our senior management team have significant experience in all aspects of the commercial real estate industry. 

&#8226; 

Properties Located in High-Barrier-to-Entry Markets with Strong Real Estate Fundamentals. &#32;Our core markets currently include Southern California, Northern California, Oregon, Washington and Hawaii, which 

&#32;2 

we believe have attractive long-term real estate fundamentals driven by favorable supply and demand characteristics. 

&#8226; 

Extensive Market Knowledge and Long-Standing Relationships Facilitate Access to a Pipeline of Acquisition and Leasing Opportunities. &#32;We believe that our in-depth market knowledge and extensive network of long-standing relationships in the real estate industry provide us access to an ongoing pipeline of attractive acquisition and investment opportunities in and near our core markets, while also facilitating our leasing efforts and providing us with opportunities to increase occupancy rates at our properties. 

&#8226; 

Internal Growth Prospects through Development, Redevelopment and Repositioning. &#32;The development and redevelopment potential at several of our properties presents compelling growth prospects and our expertise enhances our ability to capitalize on these opportunities. 

&#8226; 

Broad Real Estate Expertise with Retail, Office and Multifamily Focus. &#32;Our senior management team has strong experience and capabilities across the real estate sector with significant expertise in the retail, office and multifamily asset classes, which provides for flexibility in pursuing attractive acquisition, development and repositioning opportunities. Ernest Rady, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Robert Barton, our Chief Financial Officer, each have over 25 years of commercial real estate experience, and the other members of senior management each have over 15 years of commercial real estate experience. 

Business and Growth Strategies 

Our primary business objectives are to increase operating cash flows, generate long-term growth and maximize stockholder value. Specifically, we pursue the following strategies to achieve these objectives: 

&#8226; 

Capitalizing on Acquisition Opportunities in High-Barrier-to-Entry Markets. &#32;We intend to pursue growth through the strategic acquisition of attractively priced, high quality properties that are well located in their submarkets, focusing on markets that generally are characterized by strong supply and demand characteristics, including high barriers to entry and diverse industry bases, that appeal to institutional investors. 

&#8226; 

Repositioning/Redevelopment and Development of Office, Retail and Multifamily Properties. &#32;Our strategy is to selectively reposition and redevelop several of our existing or newly-acquired properties, and we will also selectively pursue ground-up development of undeveloped land where we believe we can generate attractive risk-adjusted returns. 

&#8226; 

Disciplined Capital Recycling Strategy. &#32;Our strategy is to pursue an efficient asset allocation strategy that maximizes the value of our investments by selectively disposing of properties whose returns appear to have been maximized and redeploying capital into acquisition, repositioning, redevelopment and development opportunities with higher return prospects, in each case in a manner that is consistent with our qualification as a REIT. 

&#8226; 

Proactive Asset and Property Management. &#32;We actively manage our properties, employ targeted leasing strategies, leverage our existing tenant relationships and focus on reducing operating expenses to increase occupancy rates at our properties, attract high quality tenants and increase property cash flows, thereby enhancing the value of our properties. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we had 131 &#32;employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. 

Tax Status 

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT and believe we are organized and operate in a manner that allows us to qualify and to remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2011. We believe that our organization and method of operation will enable us to continue to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT. To maintain REIT status, we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that we annually distribute at least 90% of our net taxable income to our stockholders (excluding any net capital gains). 

Insurance 

We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, business interruption and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio under a blanket insurance policy, in addition to other coverages, such as trademark and pollution coverage, that may be appropriate for certain of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits are 

&#32;3 

appropriate and adequate for our properties given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice; however, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover our losses. We do not carry insurance for certain losses, including, but not limited to, losses caused by riots or war. Some of our policies, like those covering losses due to terrorism and earthquakes, are insured subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover losses, for such events. In addition, all but one of our properties are subject to an increased risk of earthquakes. While we carry earthquake insurance on all of our properties, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover losses from earthquakes. We may reduce or discontinue earthquake, terrorism or other insurance on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies exceeds, in our judgment, the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. Also, if destroyed, we may not be able to rebuild certain of our properties due to current zoning and land use regulations. As a result, we may be required to incur significant costs in the event of adverse weather conditions and natural disasters. In addition, our title insurance policies may not insure for the current aggregate market value of our portfolio, and we do not intend to increase our title insurance coverage if the market value of our portfolio increases. If we or one or more of our tenants experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable costs in the future as the costs associated with property and casualty renewals may be higher than anticipated. 

Regulation 

Our properties are subject to various covenants, laws, ordinances and regulations, including laws such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, and the Fair Housing Amendment Act of 1988, or FHAA, that impose further restrictions on our properties and operations. Under the ADA and the FHAA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Some of our properties may currently be in non-compliance with the ADA or the FHAA. If one or more of the properties in our portfolio is not in compliance with the ADA, the FHAA or any other regulatory requirements, we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance and we might incur governmental fines or the award of damages to private litigants. In addition, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. 

Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, as a current or former owner or operator of real property, we may be liable for costs and damages resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances, waste or petroleum products at, on, in, under or migrating from such property, including costs to investigate, clean up such contamination and liability for harm to natural resource. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such contamination, and the liability may be joint and several. These liabilities could be substantial and the cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or other costs could exceed the value of the property and/or our aggregate assets. In addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability for costs of remediation and/or personal or property damage or materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop our properties or to borrow using the properties as collateral. In addition, environmental laws may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination. Moreover, if contamination is discovered on our properties, environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. 

Some of our properties have been or may be impacted by contamination arising from current or prior uses of the property, or adjacent properties, for commercial or industrial purposes. Such contamination may arise from spills of petroleum or hazardous substances or releases from tanks used to store such materials. For example, Del Monte Center is currently undergoing remediation of dry cleaning solvent contamination from a former onsite dry cleaner. The environmental issue is currently in the final stages of remediation which entails the long term ground monitoring by the appropriate regulatory agency over the next five to seven years. The prior owner of Del Monte Center entered into a fixed fee environmental services agreement in 1997 pursuant to which the remediation will be completed for approximately $3.5 million , with the remediation costs paid for through an escrow funded by the prior owner. We expect that the funds in this escrow account will cover all remaining costs and expenses of the environmental remediation. However, if the Regional Water Quality Control Board - Central Coast Region were to require further work costing more than the remaining escrowed funds, we could be required to pay such overage although we may have a claim for such costs against the prior owner or our environmental remediation consultant. In addition to the foregoing, we possess Phase I Environmental Site Assessments for certain of the properties in our portfolio. However, the assessments are limited in scope (e.g., they do not generally include soil sampling, subsurface investigations or hazardous materials survey) and may have failed to identify all environmental conditions or concerns. Furthermore, we do not have Phase I Environmental Site Assessment reports for all of the properties in our portfolio and, as such, may not be aware of all potential or existing environmental contamination liabilities at the properties in our portfolio. As 

&#32;4 

a result, we could potentially incur material liability for these issues, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the per share trading price of our common stock. 

As the owner of the buildings on our properties, we could face liability for the presence of hazardous materials (e.g., asbestos or lead) or other adverse conditions (e.g., poor indoor air quality) in our buildings. Environmental laws govern the presence, maintenance, and removal of hazardous materials in buildings, and if we do not comply with such laws, we could face fines for such noncompliance. Also, we could be liable to third parties (e.g., occupants of the buildings) for damages related to exposure to hazardous materials or adverse conditions in our buildings, and we could incur material expenses with respect to abatement or remediation of hazardous materials or other adverse conditions in our buildings. In addition, some of our tenants routinely handle and use hazardous or regulated substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties, which are subject to regulation. Such environmental and health and safety laws and regulations could subject us or our tenants to liability resulting from these activities. 

Competition 

We compete with a number of developers, owners and operators of retail, office, multifamily and mixed-use real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located and some of which have greater financial resources than we do. In operating and managing our portfolio, we compete for tenants based on a number of factors, including location, rental rates, security, flexibility and expertise to design space to meet prospective tenants' needs and the manner in which the property is operated, maintained and marketed. As leases at our properties expire, we may encounter significant competition to renew or re-let space in light of the large number of competing properties within the markets in which we operate. As a result, we may be required to provide rent concessions or abatements, incur charges for tenant improvements and other inducements, including early termination rights or below market renewal options, or we may not be able to timely lease vacant space. In that case, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends may be adversely affected. 

We also face competition when pursuing acquisition and disposition opportunities. Our competitors may be able to pay higher property acquisition prices, may have private access to opportunities not available to us and otherwise be in a better position to acquire a property. Competition may also have the effect of reducing the number of suitable acquisition opportunities available to us, increase the price required to consummate an acquisition opportunity and generally reduce the demand for retail, office, mixed-use and multifamily space in our markets. Likewise, competition with sellers of similar properties to locate suitable purchasers may result in us receiving lower proceeds from a sale or in us not being able to dispose of a property at a time of our choosing due to the lack of an acceptable return. 

Segments 

We operate in four business segments: retail, office, multifamily and mixed-use. Information related to our business segments for 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;is set forth in Note 17 &#32;to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Report. 

Tenants Accounting for over 10% of Revenues 

None of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;or 2013 . salesforce.com at The Landmark at One Market accounted for approximately 15.7% , 15.9% and 15.9% of total office segment revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Foreign Operations 

We do not engage in any foreign operations or derive any revenue from foreign sources. 

Available Information 

We file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may obtain copies of these documents by visiting the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or by accessing the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are furnished to the SEC, we make copies of these documents available to the public free of charge through our website at www.americanassetstrust.com, or by contacting our Secretary at our principal office, which is located at 11455 El Camino Real, Suite 200, San Diego, California 92130. Our telephone number is (858) 350-2600. The information contained on our website is not a part of this report and is not incorporated herein by reference. 

&#32;5 

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Policies and Procedures for Complaints Regarding Accounting, Internal Accounting Controls, Fraud or Auditing Matters and the charters of our audit committee, compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are all available in the Corporate Governance section of the Investor Relations section of our website. 

