 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Our Company 

Align Technology, Inc (&#8220;We&#8221;, &#8220;Our&#8221;, &#8220;Align&#8221;) designs, manufactures and markets a system of clear aligner therapy, intra-oral scanners and CAD/CAM (computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing) digital services used in dentistry, orthodontics, and dental records storage. Align Technology was founded in March 1997 and incorporated in Delaware in April 1997. Our headquarters are located at 2560 Orchard Parkway, San Jose, California 95131, and our telephone number is 408-470-1000. Our internet address is www.aligntech.com. Our international headquarters are located in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. 

We have two operating segments: (1) Clear Aligner, known as the Invisalign System; and (2) Scanners and Services ("Scanner"), known as the iTero intra-oral scanner and OrthoCAD services and formerly referred to as our Scanners and CAD/CAM Services segment. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , Clear Aligner revenues represent approximately 95 percent of worldwide revenue, while Scanner represent the remaining 5 percent of worldwide revenues. We distribute the vast majority of our products directly to our customers: orthodontists and general practitioner dentists ("GPs"), as well as to restorative dentists, including prosthodontists, periodontists, and oral surgeons. 

We received 510(k) clearance from the United States Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;) to market the Invisalign System in 1998. The Invisalign System is regulated by the FDA as a Class II medical device. In order to provide Invisalign treatment to their patients, orthodontists and GPs must initially complete an Invisalign training course. The Invisalign System is primarily sold through a direct sales force in the United States ("U.S."), Canada, Europe, and certain Asia Pacific countries including Australia, New Zealand, China and Japan. We use a distributor model for the sale of our products in non-core country markets in the Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Latin America regions. 

We acquired the iTero digital intra-oral scanner and CAD/CAM services business, our Scanner segment, in April 2011. Our iTero scanner is used by dental professionals and/or labs and services for restorative and orthodontic digital procedures as well as Invisalign digital impression submission. We received 501(k) clearance from the FDA to market iTero software for expanded indications in 2013. Scanners and CAD/CAM Services are primarily sold through our direct sales force in North America and in select international markets primarily through distribution partners. 

Our Products and Services 

Our net revenues are generated from the sale of the following product offerings: 

&#160; &#160; 

Fiscal Year 

Percentage of Net Revenues by Product 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Invisalign Full Products 

% 

&#160; 

% 

&#160; 

% 

Invisalign Express Products 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Invisalign Non-case* 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Scanners and Services 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Total net revenues 

% 

&#160; 

% 

&#160; 

% 

&#160; 

* 

Non-case net revenues include retainers, training revenues, and ancillary offerings under our Clear Aligner product lines. 

Clear Aligner Segment 

Malocclusion and Traditional Orthodontic Treatment 

Malocclusion, or the misalignment of teeth, is one of the most prevalent clinical dental conditions, affecting nearly a billion people, or approximately 50% to 75% of the population of major developed countries. Approximately 6.8 million people annually elect treatment by orthodontists worldwide, of which approximately 2.6 million have mild to moderate malocclusion and are applicable to Invisalign treatment - our served market. 

In the U.S., orthodontists and GPs treat malocclusion primarily with metal arch wires and brackets, referred to as braces, and augment braces with elastics, metal bands, headgear and other ancillary devices as needed. Available options for improving treatment aesthetics include the use of ceramic, tooth-colored brackets or bonding brackets on the inside, or lingual surface, of the patient&#8217;s teeth. The average treatment takes approximately 12 to 24 months to complete and requires several hours of direct dental professional involvement, known in the industry as &#8220;chair time,&#8221; including the initial diagnosis, creation of an appropriate treatment plan and bonding of the brackets to the patient&#8217;s teeth, and attachment of arch wires to the brackets. Subsequent visits involve tightening or otherwise adjusting the braces approximately every six weeks until the final visit when the dental professional removes each bracket and residual bonding agent from the patient&#8217;s teeth. Upon completion of the treatment, the dental professional may, at his or her discretion, have the patient use a retainer. 

The Invisalign System 

The Invisalign System is a proprietary method for treating malocclusion based on a series of doctor-prescribed, custom manufactured, clear plastic removable orthodontic aligners. The Invisalign System offers a range of treatment options, specialized services, and proprietary software for treatment visualization and is comprised of the following phases: 

Orthodontic diagnosis and transmission of treatment data to us . The Invisalign-trained dental professional prepares and sends us a patient&#8217;s treatment data package which consists of a prescription form, a polyvinyl-siloxane, (or "PVS") impression of the relevant dental arches, photographs of the patient and, at the dental professional&#8217;s election, x-rays of the patient&#8217;s dentition. The Invisalign-trained dental professional can also submit an intra-oral scan or &#8220;digital impression&#8221; instead of a physical PVS impression through either Align's iTero scanner, 3M's True Definition or Sirona's CEREC Omnicam scanner, currently the only other Invisalign qualified intra-oral scanners. 

Preparation of 3D computer models of the patient&#8217;s initial malocclusion . Upon receipt, we use the treatment data package to construct digital models of the patient&#8217;s dentition. In cases where a PVS impression has been submitted, we use computed tomography, known as CT scanning to develop a digital, three-dimensional computer model of the patient&#8217;s current dentition. In cases where the dental professional submits a digital impression, this step in the process is eliminated. 

Preparation of computer-simulated treatment and viewing of treatment using ClinCheck software . We transform this initial digital model into a proposed custom, three-dimensional treatment plan, called a ClinCheck treatment plan. The ClinCheck plan simulates appropriate tooth movement broken down into a series of two-week increments, and details timing and placement of 

any attachments that will be used during treatment. Attachments are tooth-colored &#8220;buttons&#8221; that are sometimes used to increase the biomechanical force on a specific tooth or teeth in order to effect the desired movement. The patient&#8217;s ClinCheck treatment plan is then made available to the prescribing dental professional via the Invisalign Doctor Site which enables the dental professional to project tooth movement with a level of accuracy not previously possible with metal arch wires and brackets. By reviewing and amending the treatment simulation, the dental professional retains control over the treatment plan. ClinCheck Pro is the next generation Invisalign treatment software tool, designed to provide more precise control over final tooth position and to help Invisalign providers achieve their treatment goals. This latest software innovation features interactive 3D controls that, for the first time, allow Invisalign providers to make adjustments to the position of individual teeth directly on the 3D model and to visualize the effects on the whole dentition in real time. 

Construction of molds corresponding to each step of treatment . Upon the dental professional&#8217;s approval of the ClinCheck treatment plan, we use the data underlying the simulation, in conjunction with stereolithography technology, to construct a series of molds depicting the future position of the patient&#8217;s teeth. Each mold is a replica of the patient&#8217;s teeth at each two-week stage of the simulated course of treatment. 

Manufacture of aligners and shipment to the dental professional . From these molds, aligners are fabricated by pressure-forming polymeric sheets over each mold. Aligners are thin, clear plastic, removable dental appliances that are custom manufactured in a series to correspond to each two-week stage of the ClinCheck animation. Aligners are generally worn for consecutive two-week periods which correspond to the approved ClinCheck treatment plan. After two weeks of use, the patient replaces them with the next pair in the series, advancing tooth movement with each aligner stage. Throughout treatment, the doctor may place attachments or use other auxiliaries to achieve desired tooth movements, per the doctor&#8217;s original prescription and resulting ClinCheck treatment plan. 

Retention . Upon completion of the treatment, the patient may be prescribed our single clear retainer product or our Vivera Retainer product. 

Clear Aligner Products 

Invisalign Full . Used for a wide range of malocclusion, the Invisalign Full treatment consists of the number of aligners necessary to achieve the doctor&#8217;s treatment goals. Invisalign Full treatment aligners are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment. Invisalign Full is sold in the U.S., Canada, and our international regions. The Invisalign Full product is included in "Invisalign Full Products." 

Invisalign Teen. The Invisalign Teen treatment includes all the features of Invisalign Full treatment, plus additional features that address the orthodontic needs of teenage patients such as compliance indicators, compensation for tooth eruption and six free single arch replacement aligners. This product is predominantly marketed to orthodontists who treat the vast majority of malocclusion in teenage patients. Invisalign Teen treatment aligners (other than the replacement aligners) are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment. Invisalign Teen is sold in the U.S., Canada, and our international regions. The Invisalign Teen product is included in "Invisalign Full Products". 

Invisalign Assist. Used for anterior alignment and aesthetically-oriented cases, the Invisalign Assist treatment offers added support to our dental practitioners throughout the treatment process, including progress tracking that allows the dental professional to submit new impressions every nine stages. When the progress tracking feature is selected, aligners are shipped to the dental professional after every nine stages thereby helping to achieve successful treatment outcomes. Predominantly marketed to GPs, Invisalign Assist is intended to make it easier to select appropriate cases for their experience level or treatment approach, submit cases more efficiently and manage appointments with suggested tasks. Invisalign Assist is sold in the U.S. and Canada. The Invisalign Assist product is included in "Invisalign Full Products". 

Invisalign Express (10 and 5) and Invisalign Lite/i7. Invisalign Express treatment, Invisalign Lite treatment and Invisalign i7 treatment are lower-cost solutions for less complex orthodontic cases, non-comprehensive treatment relapse cases, or straightening prior to restorative or cosmetic treatments such as veneers. Invisalign Express 10 and Invisalign Express 5, which are sold in the U.S. and Canada, uses up to 10 and 5 sets of aligners, respectively, and are also available as a single arch option. Invisalign Lite and Invisalign i7, sold in our international regions, uses up to 14 and 7 sets of aligners, respectively. For Invisalign Express/Lite/i7, aligners are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment. The Invisalign Express (10 and 5) products and Invisalign Lite /i7 products are included in "Invisalign Express Products". 

Retention . We offer two products for post treatment retention. The first is a single set of custom clear aligner retainers. The second is offered as a set of four custom clear aligners called Vivera Retainers made with proprietary material strong enough to maintain tooth position and correct minor relapse if necessary. Each set of Vivera Retainers is intended to be used for three 

consecutive months and deliver one year of retention. Doctors can prescribe Vivera Retainers for their Invisalign and their non-Invisalign patients. 

Invisalign non-case revenues . Invisalign non-case revenues represent retainer products discussed above, Invisalign training fees and sales of ancillary products, such as cleaning material and adjusting tools used by dental professionals during the course of treatment. 

Feature Enhancements. We have consistently introduced enhanced features across the Invisalign System over the past several years, such as Invisalign G3 (launched in October 2010), Invisalign G4 (launched in November 2011), and Invisalign G5 (launched in February 2014). In 2015, we did a phased launch of Invisalign G6 clinical innovations for first premolar extraction. These feature enhancements are a collection of clinical innovations designed to address some of the most significant treatment challenges doctors encounter. 

&#32;Invisalign G5 is our first set of innovations designed specifically as an integrated solution to enhance treatment predictability for deep bite, a specific type of malocclusion. Invisalign G5 feature enhancements include: 

&#8226; 

Precision Cuts, which are custom mesial and distal hooks used to provide anchorage for elastics and button cutouts to accommodate buttons bonded to the tooth aimed to help treat patients with Class II and Class III malocclusion. 

&#8226; 

SmartForce features engineered to achieve more predictable tooth movements using custom optimized attachments and Power Ridges designed to provide additional force in cases where certain types of root movement are prescribed. 

&#8226; 

Precision aligner bite ramps designed to disocclude the posterior teeth for improved efficiency in deep bite treatments. 

Invisalign G6 is engineered to improve clinical outcomes for orthodontic treatment of severe crowding and bimaxillary protrusion. Invisalign G6 clinical innovations was launched in Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Latin America geographies throughout 2015 and will be launched in North America in early 2016. Invisalign G6 feature enhancements include: 

&#8226; 

New SmartStage programmed tooth movements that optimize the progression of tooth movements and provide aligner activation, engineered to eliminate unwanted tipping and unwanted anterior extrusion during retraction. 

&#8226; 

New SmartForce features that are designed to deliver the force systems necessary to achieve predictable tooth movements. These new features include Optimized Retraction Attachments, designed to work with SmartStage technology for effective bodily movement during canine retraction, with or without elastics, and new Optimized Anchorage Attachments, designed to work with SmartStage technology to maximize posterior anchorage. 

SmartTrack &#8482; &#32;Aligner Material. SmartTrack is a proprietary, custom-engineered Invisalign Clear Aligner material that delivers gentle, more constant force considered ideal for orthodontic tooth movements. Conventional aligner materials relax and lose a substantial percent of energy in the initial days of aligner wear, but SmartTrack maintains more constant force over the two weeks that a patient wears the aligners. The flexible SmartTrack material also more precisely conforms to tooth morphology, attachments, and interproximal spaces to improve control of tooth movement throughout treatment. 

Scanner Segment 

Intra-oral scanning is an emerging technology that we believe will have substantial impact on the future of dentistry. BY enabling the dental practitioner to create a 3D image of the patient's teeth using a handheld intra-oral scanner inside the mouth, intra-oral scanning is more efficient and precise and more comfortable for patients, compared to the mess, discomfort and subjective nature of taking physical impressions. The digital model created with an intra-oral scanner is more accurate than a physical impression and substantially reduces the rate of restoration "remakes" so patients are recalled less often and the appointment time for the restoration is shorter because of fewer adjustments, which results in greater overall patient satisfaction. The 3D digital model file can be used for various procedures and services including fabrication of physical dental models for use by labs to create restorative units such as veneers, inlays, onlays, crowns, bridges and implant abutments; Invisalign digital impression submission; digital records storage; orthodontic diagnosis; and orthodontic retainers and appliances. 

iTero Scanner . The iTero scanner is available as a single hardware platform with software options for restorative or orthodontic procedures. The iTero scanner includes our innovative powderless technology and features a modern design, scanning wand and easy-to-use keyboard design with full color model rendering, enabling clinicians to show patients a life-like final model of their scanned dentition. We market and sell the iTero in North America and in select international markets. 

The iTero scanner is interoperable with our Invisalign treatment such that a full arch digital scan can be submitted for the Invisalign case submission process treatment. In January 2014, we announced that we qualified the 3M&#8482; True Definition scanner for use with Invisalign case submissions. This qualification enables Invisalign providers with a True Definition scanner to submit a digital impression in place of a traditional PVS impression as part of the Invisalign case submission process. In March 2015, we announced that the Sirona CEREC Omnicam with the new CEREC Ortho software 1.1 was qualified for use with Invisalign case submissions. The new CEREC Omnicam scanner was available in select markets in the summer of 2015. The 3M True Definition scanner and Sirona CEREC Omnicam scanner are the only third-party scanners that have been qualified for use with Invisalign treatment. We support an open systems approach to digital impressions and continue to work with intraoral scanning companies interested in developing interoperability for use with Invisalign treatment. 

In March 2015, we announced our next generation iTero Element Intraoral Scanner which features a more compact footprint, enhanced wand and multi-touch display and is engineered to enable faster scan speeds for more efficient, real-time clinical evaluation. We began shipping the iTero Element Intraoral Scanner in September 2015 and expect to ramp up our production over the next few quarters accordingly. 

Restorative software for iTero. Software designed for GPs, prosthodontists, periodontists, and oral surgeons which includes features for restorative procedures commonly performed in their practices such as veneers, inlays, onlays, crowns, bridges and implants. The iTero restorative software provides the ability to scan quadrants and full arches, and allows simple powder-free capture of digital impressions for single-unit cases as well as more complex restorative and implant treatment plans. The iTero software also contains Invisalign interoperability to support clear aligner orthodontic treatment. 

In the past year, we have expanded the digital workflow options to include several partnerships which provide our customers with a broader spectrum of CAD/CAM options. Connectivity partnership announcements include: 

&#8226; 

IOS Technologies Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Glidewell Laboratories, provides the option to mill same-day restorations in the office. 

&#8226; 

DENTSPLY Implants featuring connectivity with ATLANTIS&#8482; custom abutments. 

&#8226; 

Zimmer Dental, Inc. with connectivity with Zimmer Zfx custom abutments for implants. 

Orthodontic software for iTero. Software designed for orthodontists for digital records storage, orthodontic diagnosis, Invisalign digital impression submission, and for the fabrication of printed models and retainers. The iTero orthodontic software digitally captures the contours of the dentition and the gingival structures, providing an accurate, powder-free digital orthodontic scan in just minutes. This digital impression procedure ensures a more comfortable patient experience and produces a precise scan that can be seamlessly integrated with Invisalign treatment, OrthoCAD iCast, and OrthoCAD iRecord which allows a doctor to utilize sophisticated measurement and treatment planning tools. 

CAD/CAM Services 

iTero Models and Dies. An accurate physical model and dies are manufactured based on the digital scan and sent to the laboratory of the dentist&#8217;s choice for completion of the needed restoration. The laboratory also has the option to export the digital file for immediate production of coping and full-contour restorations on their laboratory CAD/CAM systems. The laboratory conducts then completes the ceramic buildup or staining and glazing and delivers the end result - a precisely fitting restoration. iTero prosthetics have a near-zero remake rate. 

OrthoCAD iCast. iCast provides a digital alternative to traditional stone cast models which allows for simplified storage and digital record retrieval. The iCast digital model contains a full American Board of Orthodontics ("ABO") base and is available from an iTero scan or from a traditional alginate impression. 

OrthoCAD iRecord. iRecord provides a digital alternative to traditional stone cast models which allows for simplified storage and digital record retrieval. This simplified model without an ABO base is an economical option for record retention. iRecord is available exclusively from an iTero scan. 

Chair Side Applications 

Invisalign Outcome Simulator . The Invisalign Outcome Simulator is an interactive application that provides GPs and orthodontists an enhanced platform for patient education and is designed to increase treatment acceptance by helping patients visualize the benefits possible with Invisalign treatment. As the only Invisalign chair-side intra-oral scanning application on the market, the Invisalign Outcome Simulator's unique dual view layout shows a prospective patient an image of his/her own current 

dentition next to his/her simulated final position of how their teeth may look after Invisalign treatment. Using a full arch Invisalign scan, the Invisalign Outcome Simulator takes a few minutes to run and may be viewed chair-side, on the scanner, or from a computer using MyAlignTech.com. Intuitive tools allow doctors to make real-time adjustments to individual teeth during consultations that increase patient education and the likelihood of patient acceptance. 

Our iTero scanner includes orthodontic software, restorative software, or both, and the Invisalign Outcome Simulator. The orthodontic or restorative software may also be purchased subsequently for an upgrade fee. The Invisalign Outcome Simulator is not available for sale separately. 

Other proprietary software mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K such as ClinCheck and ClinCheck Pro software, the Invisalign Doctor Site, &#32; and enhanced feature solutions such as Invisalign G6 are included as part of the Invisalign System and are not sold separately nor do they contribute as individual items of revenue. &#32; 

Business Strategy 

Our goal is to establish Invisalign clear aligners as the standard method for treating malocclusion and to establish the iTero intra-oral scanner as the preferred scanning protocol for 3D digital scans, ultimately driving increased product adoption by dental professionals. We intend to achieve this by continued focus and execution of our strategic growth drivers: Market Expansion, Doctor Preference, and Brand Strength. 

1. 

Market Expansion . We expect to continue to grow and expand our business by investing in resources, infrastructure, and initiatives that will drive growth from both a geographic and market segment standpoint. From a geographic standpoint, we focus our efforts on expanding our sales territory coverage in all of our direct sales geographies, with particular emphasis in our highest growth areas such as Europe and the Asia Pacific region. We strive to make sure that our new geographies and our expanded territories internationally have everything they need from the products, to the support, to the people, in order to successfully establish Invisalign as the treatment of choice for orthodontics in each geographic market. From a market segment standpoint, we are focused on two important markets: adults and teenagers. We believe expansion in these two markets can be achieved through product innovations that can expand the types of indications our Invisalign products can treat, as well as by expanding the overall market for orthodontics, primarily with adults who would not otherwise seek treatment with traditional wires and brackets. We believe continued market expansion can be achieved by having the right products, services, and communications worldwide to give our doctors the confidence they need to treat with Invisalign more often and attract potential patients to their practice so they ask for Invisalign by name. 

In parallel with these investments, we also engage in professional marketing, clinical support and education initiatives that support doctor practice development and facilitate the continued growth of their practices. 

In our iTero scanner business, we leverage our combined sales and marketing resources to facilitate the adoption and penetration of each product into our doctors&#8217; practices. Many of our customers recognize that having an iTero scanner at chair-side improves practice effectiveness for Invisalign as evidenced by higher Invisalign utilization rates among customers with an iTero scanner. 

2. 

Doctor Preference. &#32;&#32; We want all of our doctors to have the confidence and motivation to lead with Invisalign for every patient that walks into their practice. We strive to achieve this by investing in two areas. First, continuing to improve product predictability and applicability for more complex cases thereby expanding the types of malocclusion that our Invisalign products can treat. As an example, we launched Invisalign G5 in February 2014, which represented our first set of features engineered specifically to treat deep bite malocclusion. We estimate that deep bite manifests itself in approximately 30% to 40% of the orthodontic cases treated worldwide depending on geography. In 2015, we did a phased launch of Invisalign G6 clinical innovations for first premolar extractions. The nature of malocclusion that requires first premolar tooth extraction is an orthodontic problem that affects more than 50% of people in Asia, 20% in Europe and 12% in North America. Secondly, enhancing the customer&#8217;s experience by making it easier to treat with and integrate Invisalign into their practices. As an example, we launched ClinCheck Pro in February 2014, the next generation Invisalign treatment software tool, designed to simplify the treatment process and help our doctors achieve their treatment goals. 

3. 

Brand Strength. &#32;&#32; Our goal is to make Invisalign a highly recognized name brand worldwide by creating awareness for Invisalign treatment among consumers and motiving potential patients to seek treatment from an Invisalign provider. In support of this objective, we invest in initiatives designed to strengthen our global brand name recognition and drive 

consumer purchase intent. We accomplish this objective through an integrated consumer marketing strategy that includes television, media, social networking and event marketing. 

Manufacturing and Suppliers 

Our manufacturing facilities are located in Juarez, Mexico, where we conduct our aligner fabrication, distribute and repair our scanners, perform our CAD/CAM services, and in Or Yehuda, Israel where we produce our handheld intra-oral scanner wand. The final assembly of our iTero scanner is performed by a third party manufacturer located in Israel. Our Invisalign digital treatment planning and interpretation for iTero restorative cases are conducted primarily at our facility located in San Jose, Costa Rica. Information regarding risks associated with our manufacturing process and foreign operations may be found in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

Our quality system is required to be in compliance with the Quality System regulations enforced by the FDA, and similar regulations enforced by other worldwide regulatory authorities. We are certified to EN ISO 13485:2003, an internationally recognized standard for medical device manufacturing. We have a formal, documented quality system by which quality objectives are defined, understood and achieved. Systems, processes and procedures are implemented to ensure high levels of product and service quality. We monitor the effectiveness of the quality system based on internal data and direct customer feedback and strive to continually improve our systems and processes, taking corrective action, as needed. 

Since the manufacturing process of our products requires substantial and varied technical expertise, we believe that our manufacturing capabilities are important to our success. In order to produce our highly customized, highly precise, medical quality products in volume, we have developed a number of proprietary processes and technologies. These technologies include complex software algorithms and solutions, CT scanning, stereolithography and automated aligner fabrication. To increase the efficiency of our manufacturing processes, we continue to focus our efforts on software development and the improvement of rate-limiting processes, or bottlenecks. We continuously upgrade our proprietary, three-dimensional treatment planning software to enhance computer analysis of treatment data and to reduce time spent on manual and judgmental tasks for each case, thereby increasing the efficiency of our technicians in Costa Rica. In addition, to improve efficiency and increase the scale of our operations, we continue to invest in the development of automated systems for the fabrication and packaging of aligners. 

We are highly dependent on manufacturers of specialized scanning equipment, rapid prototyping machines, resin and other advanced materials for our aligners, as well as the optics, electronic and other mechanical components of our intra-oral scanners. We maintain single supply relationships for many of these machines and materials technologies. In particular, our CT scanning and stereolithography equipment used in our aligner manufacturing and many of the critical components for the optics of our intra-oral scanners are provided by single suppliers. We are also committed to purchasing all of our resin and polymer, the primary raw materials used in our manufacturing process for clear aligners, from a single source. The need to replace one of our single source suppliers could cause a disruption in our ability to timely deliver certain of our products or increase costs. See Item 1A Risk Factors &#8212; &#8220;We maintain single supply relationships for certain of our key machines and materials technologies, and our business and &#32; operating results could be harmed if supply is restricted or ends or the price of raw materials used in our manufacturing process increases.&#8221; 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales efforts are focused primarily on the Invisalign System and continuing to increase adoption and utilization by orthodontists and GPs worldwide. In North America, Europe and certain Asia Pacific country markets, we have direct sales and support organizations, which includes quota carrying sales representatives, sales management, and sales administration. 

Currently, we have several distribution partners that sell the Invisalign System in smaller non-core country markets in the EMEA, Asia Pacific and Latin America regions. We evaluate adding distribution partners in other non-core country markets on a case-by-case basis or assess modifying our current distribution agreements, as our international business grows. We continued to expand in our existing markets through targeted investments in sales coverage, professional marketing and education programs, along with consumer marketing in selected country markets. 

&#160; 

For the iTero scanner, we have a small team of direct sales representatives in North America. Our intra-oral scanner sales team leverages leads generated by our Invisalign sales and marketing resources, including customer events and industry trade-shows. We sell the iTero scanner in select country markets internationally and will look to grow the scanner business over time. 

We provide training, marketing and clinical support to orthodontists and GPs. In 2015 , we had approximately 48,170 active Invisalign providers. 

Research and Development 

We are committed to investing in world-class technology development, which we believe is critical to achieving our goal of establishing the Invisalign System as the standard method for treating malocclusion and our intra-oral scanning platform as the preferred scanning protocol for 3D digital scans. Our research and development expenses were $61.2 million , $52.8 million , and $44.1 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Our research and development activities are directed toward developing the technology innovations that we believe will deliver our next generation of products and platforms. Our research and development activities range from accelerating product and clinical innovation, to developing manufacturing process improvements, to researching future technologies and products. 

In an effort to demonstrate Invisalign&#8217;s broad treatment capabilities, various clinical case studies and articles have been published that highlight the clinical applicability of Invisalign to malocclusion cases, including those of severe complexity. We undertake pre-commercialization trials and testing of our technological improvements to the product and manufacturing process. 

Intellectual Property 

We believe our intellectual property position represents a substantial business advantage. As of December 31, 2015 , we had issued 384 U.S. patents, 276 foreign issued patents, and 236 pending global patent applications. 

We continue to pursue further intellectual property protection through U.S. and foreign patent applications and non-disclosure agreements. We also seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any patent application or that patents that have been issued to us or that may be issued in the future will be found to be valid and enforceable and sufficient to protect our technology or products. Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. Our inability to protect our proprietary information could harm our business. Information regarding risks associated with failing to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights may be found in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

Seasonal Fluctuations 

General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and we experience seasonal trends related to our two operating segments, customer channels and the geographic locations that we serve. For example, European sales of Invisalign treatment are often weaker in the summer months due to our customers and their patients being on holiday. In North America, summer is typically the busiest season for orthodontists with practices that have a high percentage of adolescent and teenage patients as many parents want to get their teenagers started in treatment before the start of the school year; however, many GPs are on vacation during this time and therefore tend to start fewer cases. For our Scanner segment, capital equipment sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Consequently, these seasonal trends have caused and may continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates. 

Backlog 

Due to the individualized nature of an Invisalign treatment which is prescribed by a doctor, no two cases are alike, thus we maintain relatively low levels of backlog. The period from which a treatment data package (or &#8220;a case&#8221;) is received until the acceptance of the digital ClinCheck treatment plan is dependent on the dental professional&#8217;s discretion to modify, accept or cancel the treatment plan. Therefore, we consider the case a firm order to manufacture aligners once the dental professional has approved the ClinCheck treatment plan. Our Invisalign backlog consists of ClinCheck treatment plans that have been accepted but not yet shipped. Because aligners are shipped shortly after the ClinCheck treatment plan has been accepted, we believe that backlog is not a good indicator of future Invisalign sales. Our quarterly Invisalign revenues can be impacted by the timing of the ClinCheck treatment plan acceptances and our ability to ship those cases in the same quarter. We define our intra-oral scanner backlog as orders where payment is reasonably assured and credit and financing is approved but the scanner has not yet shipped. Our intra-oral scanner backlog as of December 31, 2015 &#32;was not material. 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive market and we encounter a wide variety of competitors, including larger companies or divisions of larger companies with substantial sales, marketing, research and financial capabilities. We also face competition from early stage companies. Although the number of competitors varies by segment, currently our products compete directly 

against products manufactured and distributed by various companies, both within and outside the U.S., including Danaher Corporation, 3M, Sirona Dental Systems, Inc., Dentsply International, Inc. and other private competitors. In addition, the expiration of certain key patents commencing in 2017 owned by us may result in additional competition. Information regarding risks associated with increased competition may be found in Item 1A &#32;of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading &#8220; Risk Factors .&#8221; 

Key competitive factors include: 

&#8226; 

effectiveness of treatment; 

&#8226; 

price; 

&#8226; 

software features; 

&#8226; 

aesthetic appeal of the treatment method; 

&#8226; 

customer support; 

&#8226; 

customer online interface; 

&#8226; 

brand awareness; 

&#8226; 

innovation; 

&#8226; 

distribution network; 

&#8226; 

comfort associated with the treatment method; 

&#8226; 

oral hygiene; 

&#8226; 

ease of use; and 

&#8226; 

dental professionals&#8217; chair time. 

We believe that our products compare favorably with our competitors&#8217; products with respect to each of these factors. 

Government Regulation 

In order for us to market our products, we must obtain regulatory authorization and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations both within and outside the United States. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Failure to obtain regulatory approval and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any country in which we currently market or plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. The approval by government authorities is unpredictable and uncertain and may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt of, or a failure to receive, such approvals or clearances, or the loss of any previously received approvals or clearances, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Certain of the Company&#8217;s products are classified as medical devices under the United States Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the &#8220;FDCA&#8221;). The FDCA requires these products, when sold in the United States, to be safe and effective for their intended use and to comply with the regulations administered by the United States Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;). Our products may also be regulated by comparable agencies in non-U.S. countries in which they are produced or sold. In the European Union, our products are subject to the medical devices laws of the various member states, which are based on a Directive of the European Commission. Such laws generally regulate the safety of the products in a similar way to the FDA regulations. 

We believe we are in compliance with all FDA, federal and state laws and International regulatory requirements that are applicable to our products and manufacturing operations. 

We are also subject to various laws inside and outside the U.S. concerning our relationships with healthcare professionals and government officials, price reporting and regulation, the promotion, sales and marketing of our products and services, the importation and exportation of our products, the operation of our facilities and distribution of our products. As a global company, we are subject to varying degrees of government regulation in the various countries in which we do business, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent oversight and enforcement. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies, and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare expenses generally are ongoing in markets where we do business. It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost containment measures on our future business. 

Our customers are healthcare providers that may be reimbursed by federally funded programs such as Medicaid or a foreign national healthcare program, each of which may offer some degree of oversight. Many government agencies, both domestic and foreign, have increased their enforcement activities with respect to healthcare providers and companies in recent years. Enforcement actions and associated defense can be expensive, and any resulting findings carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties. For example, the U.S. Federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act went into effect in 2014 which requires public transparency of transfers of value to physicians. 

In addition, we must comply with numerous data protection requirements that span from individual state and national laws in the US to multinational requirements in the EU. In the U.S., final regulations implementing amendments to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (&#8220;HIPAA&#8221;) became effective in the latter part of 2013 with the HIPAA Omnibus Rule. The EU is currently considering a proposal to enact legislation governing data protection which would transform the current mix of European countries&#8217; laws to one overarching multinational law. Meanwhile, the Asia Pacific region has also seen rapid development of privacy laws, including in Singapore, Hong Kong, and Australia. We believe we have designed our product and service offerings to be compliant with the requirements of applicable data protection laws and regulations. Maintaining systems that are compliant with these laws and regulations is costly and could require complex changes in the way we do business or provide services to our customers and their patients. Additionally, our success may be dependent on the success of healthcare providers in managing data protection requirements. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 4,375 employees, including 2,805 in manufacturing and operations, 950 in sales and marketing which includes customer care, 310 in research and development and 310 in general and administrative functions. 

Available Information 

Our website is located at www.aligntech.com , and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.aligntech.com . The information on or accessible through our websites is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement on Schedule 14A for our annual stockholders&#8217; meeting and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the SEC. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov . 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 25, 2016: 

&#160; 

Name 

Age 

Position 

Joseph M. Hogan 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

David L. White 

Chief Financial Officer 

Simon Beard 

Vice President and Managing Director, EMEA 

Jennifer M. Erfurth 

Vice President, Global Human Resources 

Roger E. George 

Vice President, Corporate and Legal Affairs and General Counsel 

Timothy A. Mack 

Vice President, Business Development 

Raphael Pascaud 

Chief Marketing Portfolio and Business Development Officer 

Christopher C. Puco 

Vice President, North America 

Zelko Relic 

Vice President, Research &#38; Development 

Julie Tay 

Vice President and Managing Director, Asia Pacific 

Emory M. Wright 

Vice President, Operations 

Joseph M. Hogan &#32;has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2015. Prior to joining us, Mr. Hogan was Chief Executive Officer of ABB Ltd., a global power and automation technologies company based in Zurich, Switzerland from 2008 to 2013. Prior to working in ABB, Mr. Hogan worked at General Electric Company (GE) in a variety of executive and management roles from 1985 to 2008, including eight years as Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare from 2000 to 2008. 

David L. White has served as our Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") since August 2013. Prior to joining us, Mr. White was CFO of Enecsys, Ltd., a privately-held supplier of solar micro inverters and monitoring systems from June 2012. Prior to Enecsys, he was Executive Vice President and CFO at NVIDIA Corporation, a fabless semiconductor company known for its development of advanced graphics and high performance computing processors from February 2009 to June 2011. Prior to NVIDIA, he was Executive Vice President of Finance and CFO at SANMINA-SCI Corporation, which provides contract design, supply chain, and manufacturing services from 2004 to 2009. He also served as CFO at Asyst Technologies Corporation, CEO at Candescent Technologies Corporation, and Senior Vice President of Finance at Connor Peripherals. 

Simon Beard has served as our Vice President and Managing Director, EMEA since November 2014. Prior to joining us, from December 2012 to October 2014, Mr. Beard was Regional Director for the South East Asia business of Smith &#38; Nephew, a multinational medical equipment manufacturing company. From October 2006 to November 2012, Mr. Beard was Director &#38; General Manager for UK and Ireland for Smith &#38; Nephew's Advanced Woundcare business. Prior to Smith &#38; Nephew, Mr. Beard held multiple commercial, strategic, and general management positions in companies such as DePuy International (Johnson &#38; Johnson), Sankyo Pharmaceutical and Sanofi Aventis. 

Jennifer M. Erfurth has served as our Vice President, Global Human Resources since October 2012. Prior to joining us, Ms. Erfurth was Senior Vice President of Shared Services at Dyno Nobel, Inc., a manufacturer and supplier of industrial explosives, from July 2011 to July 2012, and was Vice President, Human Resources for Federal Signal Corporation prior to that. From 2001 to 2010, Ms. Erfurth held positions of increasing responsibility at Schawk, Inc., most recently as Global Senior Vice President of Human Resources, a position she held from 2007 until her departure in 2010. Earlier in her career, she served as Director of Human Resources at CINTAS Corporation and World Color. 

Roger E. George &#32;has served as our Vice President, Corporate and Legal Affairs and General Counsel since July 2002. Prior to joining us, Mr. George was the Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Legal Affairs and General Counsel of SkyStream Networks, a privately held broadband and broadcast network equipment company. Prior to SkyStream, Mr. George was a partner at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &#38; Rosati, P.C. in Palo Alto, California. 

Timothy A. Mack &#32;has served as our Vice President, Marketing and Business Development since May 2012. He served as Vice President, Business Development since our acquisition of Cadent Holdings, Inc. in April 2011. At Cadent, he was President and Chief Executive Officer since 2009. He joined Cadent in 2005, as Executive Vice President &#38; General Manager where he led the introduction and adoption of Cadent&#8217;s new 3D digital imaging technology into the market. Prior to Cadent, Mr. Mack was Vice President and General Manager of DENTSPLY Ceramco, a wholly-owned subsidiary of DENTSPLY International. Prior to 

DENTSPLY, Mr. Mack held a series of management positions in the U.S. and Europe within Consumer Electronics and Medical Imaging Divisions at Eastman Kodak Company. Mr. Mack will be retiring in March 2016. 

Raphael Pascaud was promoted to Chief Marketing Portfolio and Business Development Officer in July 2015. He joined Align in 2010 as Vice President and Managing Director for the Europe, Middle East and Africa Region, ("EMEA") and was promoted in January 2014 to Vice President, International. Prior to Align, Mr. Pascaud spent 14 years in various management positions within DePuy, a Johnson &#38; Johnson family of companies, including Vice President Orthopedics of EMEA and Vice President Marketing of International. 

Christopher C. Puco &#32;has served as our Vice President, North America since December 2012. He joined Align in 2006 as a sales director and in 2008 became senior director for the Eastern sales area. Most recently, as Vice President of Sales Strategy, he led Align's go-to-market strategy and managed the integration of the North American scanner and CAD/CAM services sales organization. Mr. Puco has more than 20 years of experience in the medical device industry, holding sales management positions in both starts-ups and established corporate environments. Prior to Align, he was with United States Surgical Corporation, General Surgical Innovations, Baxter BioSurgery and Fusion Medical Technologies. 

Zelko Relic &#32;was appointed Vice President, Research &#38; Development in December 2013. Prior to joining Align, Mr. Relic was Vice President, Engineering for Datalogic Automation, a global leader in automatic data capture and industrial automation markets from 2012. Mr. Relic was previously Vice President, Engineering at Danaher Corporation, Accu-Sort Systems business from 2010 to 2012 before it was acquired by Datalogic Automation. From 2005 to 2010, he was at Siemens Medical Solutions USA, most recently as Vice President, and from 2002 to 2004 he held senior management positions in engineering at Kulicke &#38; Soffa Industries, designers and manufactures of semiconductor products. He also held management positions at KLA-Tencor, manufacturer of metrology tools from 1994 to 2000. 

Julie Tay &#32;was appointed Vice President and Managing Director, Asia Pacific in March 2013. Prior to joining us, Ms. Tay was regional head of Bayer Healthcare (Diabetes Care) overseeing operations across Asia, from 2010 to 2013. From 2006 to 2010, Ms. Tay served as director of marketing and corporate accounts at Sealed Air Corporation (formerly Johnson Diversey), a global provider of food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. Prior to that, Ms. Tay spent 15 years with Johnson &#38; Johnson Medical. 

Emory M. Wright &#32;has served as our Vice President, Operations since December 2007. He has been with us since March 2000, predominantly in manufacturing and operations roles. Previously, Mr. Wright served as Vice President, Manufacturing and, was General Manager of New Product Development. Prior to joining us, Mr. Wright was Senior Manufacturing Manager at Metrika, Inc. a medical device manufacturer, from May 1999 to March 2000. From July 1994 to May 1999, Mr. Wright served as Manager of Manufacturing and Process Development for Metra Biosystems Inc. 

