 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Genuine Parts Company, a Georgia corporation incorporated on May 7, 1928, is a service organization engaged in the distribution of automotive replacement parts, industrial replacement parts, office products and electrical/electronic materials through our four operating segments, each described in more detail below. In 2015, business was conducted from approximately 2,650 locations throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico, Australia and New Zealand. As of December 31, 2015, the Company employed approximately 39,600 persons. 

As used in this report, the &#147;Company&#148; refers to Genuine Parts Company and its Subsidiaries, except as otherwise indicated by the context; and the terms &#147;automotive parts&#148; and &#147;industrial parts&#148; refer to replacement parts in each respective category. 

Financial Information about Segments . For financial information regarding segments as well as our geographic areas of operation, refer to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1. 

Available Information . The Company&#146;s internet website can be found at www.genpt.com. The Company makes available, free of charge through its internet website, access to the Company&#146;s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other reports, and any amendments to these documents, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). Additionally, our corporate governance guidelines, codes of conduct and ethics, and charters of the Audit Committee and the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, as well as information regarding our procedure for shareholders and other interested parties to communicate with our Board of Directors, are available on our website. 

In Part III of this Form 10-K, we incorporate certain information by reference to our proxy statement for our 2016 annual meeting of shareholders. We expect to file that proxy statement with the SEC on or about February 26, 2016, and we will make it available online at the same time at http://www.proxydocs.com/gpc. Please refer to the proxy statement for the information incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K when it is available. 

AUTOMOTIVE PARTS GROUP 

The Automotive Parts Group, the largest division of the Company, distributes automotive parts and accessory items. In addition to approximately 474,000 available part numbers, the Company offers complete inventory, cataloging, marketing, training and other programs in the automotive aftermarket. The Company is the sole member of the National Automotive Parts Association (&#147;NAPA&#148;), a voluntary trade association formed in 1925 to provide nationwide distribution of automotive parts. 

During 2015, the Company&#146;s Automotive Parts Group included NAPA automotive parts distribution centers and automotive parts stores (&#147;auto parts stores&#148; or &#147;NAPA AUTO PARTS stores&#148;) owned and operated in the United States by the Company; NAPA and Traction automotive parts distribution centers and auto parts stores in the United States and Canada owned and operated by the Company and NAPA Canada/UAP Inc. (&#147;NAPA Canada/UAP&#148;), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; auto parts stores and distribution centers in the United States operated by corporations in which the Company owned either a noncontrolling or controlling interest; auto parts stores in Canada operated by corporations in which UAP owns a 50% interest; Repco and other automotive parts distribution centers, branches and auto parts stores in Australia and New Zealand owned and operated by GPC Asia Pacific, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; import automotive parts distribution centers in the United States owned by the Company and operated by its Altrom America division; import automotive parts distribution centers in Canada owned and operated by Altrom Canada Corporation (&#147;Altrom Canada&#148;), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; distribution centers in the United States owned by Balkamp, Inc. (&#147;Balkamp&#148;), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; distribution facilities in the United States owned by the Company and operated by its Rayloc division; automotive parts distribution centers and automotive parts stores in Mexico, owned and operated by Grupo Auto Todo, S.A. de C.V. (&#147;Auto Todo&#148;), a wholly-owned 

&#160; 

subsidiary of the Company; and an automotive parts distribution center and automotive parts stores in Mexico, owned and operated by Autopartes NAPA Mexico (&#147;NAPA Mexico&#148;), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. 

The Company&#146;s network of U.S. automotive parts stores was expanded in 2015 via the acquisition of select store groups located in various regions of the United States. Additionally, the GPC Asia Pacific automotive business acquired Auto Electrics Australia (&#147;AEA&#148;) and Global Automotive (&#147;Global&#148;) in April and August, 2015, respectively. AEA is a specialist supplier of rotating electrical products, while Global has a regional network of six stores. Collectively, these new store groups and automotive businesses are expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $35 million USD. 

The Company has a 15% interest in Mitchell Repair Information (&#147;MRIC&#148;), a subsidiary of Snap-on Incorporated. MRIC is a leading automotive diagnostic and repair information company that links North American subscribers to its services and information databases. MRIC&#146;s core product, &#147;Mitchell ON-DEMAND&#148;, is a premier electronic repair information source in the automotive aftermarket. 

The Company&#146;s NAPA automotive parts distribution centers distribute replacement parts (other than body parts) for substantially all motor vehicle makes and models in service in the United States, including imported vehicles, trucks, SUVs, buses, motorcycles, recreational vehicles and farm vehicles. In addition, the Company distributes replacement parts for small engines, farm equipment and heavy duty equipment. The Company&#146;s inventories also include accessory items for such vehicles and equipment, and supply items used by a wide variety of customers in the automotive aftermarket, such as repair shops, service stations, fleet operators, automobile and truck dealers, leasing companies, bus and truck lines, mass merchandisers, farms, industrial concerns and individuals who perform their own maintenance and parts installation. Although the Company&#146;s domestic automotive operations purchase from approximately 100 different suppliers, approximately 49% of 2015 automotive parts inventories were purchased from 10 major suppliers. Since 1931, the Company has had return privileges with most of its suppliers, which have protected the Company from inventory obsolescence. 

Distribution System . In 2015, the Company operated 59 domestic NAPA automotive parts distribution centers located in 40 states and approximately 1,100 domestic company-owned NAPA AUTO PARTS stores located in 45 states. The Company also operated domestically one TW Distribution heavy duty parts distribution center and 14 company-owned Traction Heavy Duty parts stores located in four states. The Traction operations are discussed further below in Related Operations. At December 31, 2015, the Company owned either a noncontrolling or controlling interest in six corporations, which operated approximately 114 auto parts stores in nine states. 

The Company&#146;s domestic distribution centers serve approximately 4,900 independently owned NAPA AUTO PARTS stores located throughout the United States. NAPA AUTO PARTS stores, in turn, sell to a wide variety of customers in the automotive aftermarket. Collectively, these independent automotive parts stores account for approximately 63% of the Company&#146;s total U.S. Automotive sales and 23% of the Company&#146;s total sales, with no automotive parts store or group of automotive parts stores with individual or common ownership accounting for more than 0.31% of the total sales of the Company. 

NAPA Canada/UAP, founded in 1926, is a leader in the distribution and marketing of replacement parts and accessories for automobiles and trucks and is also a significant supplier to the mining and forestry industries in Canada. NAPA Canada/UAP employs approximately 3,900 people and operates a network of 9 NAPA automotive parts distribution centers, three heavy duty parts distribution centers and one fabrication/remanufacturing facility supplying approximately 601 NAPA stores and 105 Traction wholesalers. The NAPA stores and Traction wholesalers in Canada include approximately 181 company owned stores, 12 joint ventures and 30 progressive owners in which NAPA Canada/UAP owns a 50% interest and approximately 483 independently owned stores. NAPA and Traction operations supply bannered installers and independent installers in all provinces of Canada, as well as networks of service stations and repair shops operating under the banners of national accounts. UAP is a licensee of the NAPA &#174; name in Canada. 

In Canada, Altrom Canada operates three import automotive parts distribution centers and 10 branches. In the United States, Altrom America operates two import automotive parts distribution centers. 

&#160; 

In Australia and New Zealand, GPC Asia Pacific, originally established in 1922, is a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories. GPC Asia Pacific operates eight distribution centers, 417 Repco stores and 80 branches associated with the Ashdown Ingram, Motospecs, McLeod and RDA Brakes operations. 

In Mexico, Auto Todo owns and operates 11 distribution centers, four auto parts stores and four tire centers. NAPA Mexico owns and operates one distribution center and eleven auto parts stores. Auto Todo and NAPA Mexico are licensees of the NAPA &#174; name in Mexico. 

Products . Distribution centers have access to approximately 474,000 different parts and related supply items. Each item is cataloged and numbered for identification and accessibility. Significant inventories are carried to provide for fast and frequent deliveries to customers. Most orders are filled and shipped the same day as they are received. The majority of sales are paid from statements with varied terms and conditions. The Company does not manufacture any of the products it distributes. The majority of products are distributed under the NAPA &#174; name, a mark licensed to the Company by NAPA, which is important to the sales and marketing of these products. Traction sales also include products distributed under the HD Plus name, a proprietary line of automotive parts for the heavy duty truck market. 

Related Operations . Balkamp, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, distributes a wide variety of replacement parts and accessory items for passenger cars, heavy-duty vehicles, motorcycles and farm equipment. In addition, Balkamp distributes service items such as testing equipment, lubricating equipment, gauges, cleaning supplies, chemicals and supply items used by repair shops, fleets, farms and institutions. Balkamp packages many of the 40,000 products, which constitute the &#147;Balkamp&#148; line of products that are distributed through the NAPA system. These products are categorized into over 238 different product categories purchased from approximately 438 domestic suppliers and over 100 foreign manufacturers. Balkamp has two distribution centers located in Plainfield, Indiana, and West Jordan, Utah. In addition, Balkamp operates two redistribution centers that provide the NAPA system with over 1,125 SKUs of oils and chemicals. BALKAMP &#174; , a federally registered trademark, is important to the sales and marketing promotions of the Balkamp organization. 

The Company, through its Rayloc division, operates four facilities where certain small automotive parts are distributed through the NAPA system under the NAPA &#174; brand name. Rayloc &#174; is a mark licensed to the Company by NAPA. 

The Company&#146;s Heavy Vehicle Parts Group operates as TW Distribution, with one warehouse location in Atlanta, Georgia, which serves 21 Traction Heavy Duty parts stores in the United States, of which 14 are company-owned and seven are independently owned. This group distributes heavy vehicle parts through the NAPA system and direct to small and large fleet owners and operators. 

Segment Data . In the year ended December 31, 2015, sales from the Automotive Parts Group were approximately 52% of the Company&#146;s net sales, as compared to 53% in 2014 and 2013. For additional segment information, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1. 

Service to NAPA AUTO PARTS Stores . The Company believes that the quality and the range of services provided to its automotive parts customers constitute a significant advantage for its automotive parts distribution system. Such services include fast and frequent delivery, parts cataloging (including the use of electronic NAPA AUTO PARTS catalogs) and stock adjustment through a continuing parts classification system which, as initiated by the Company from time to time, allows independent retailers (&#147;jobbers&#148;) to return certain merchandise on a scheduled basis. The Company offers its NAPA AUTO PARTS store customers various management aids, marketing aids and service on topics such as inventory control, cost analysis, accounting procedures, group insurance and retirement benefit plans, as well as marketing conferences and seminars, sales and advertising manuals and training programs. Point of sale/inventory management is available through TAMS &#174; (Total Automotive Management Systems), a computer system designed and developed by the Company for the NAPA AUTO PARTS stores. 

The Company has developed and refined an inventory classification system to determine optimum distribution center and auto parts store inventory levels for automotive parts stocking based on automotive registrations, usage rates, production statistics, technological advances and other similar factors. This system, which undergoes continuous analytical review, is an integral part of the Company&#146;s inventory control procedures and 

&#160; 

comprises an important feature of the inventory management services that the Company makes available to its NAPA AUTO PARTS store customers. Over the last 25 years, losses to the Company from obsolescence have been insignificant and the Company attributes this to the successful operation of its classification system, which involves product return privileges with most of its suppliers. 

Competition . The automotive parts distribution business is highly competitive. The Company competes with automobile manufacturers (some of which sell replacement parts for vehicles built by other manufacturers as well as those that they build themselves), automobile dealers, warehouse clubs and large automotive parts retail chains. In addition, the Company competes with the distributing outlets of parts manufacturers, oil companies, mass merchandisers (including national retail chains), and with other parts distributors and retailers. The Automotive Parts Group competes primarily on product offering, service, brand recognition and price. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in &#147;Item 1A. Risk Factors &#151; We Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do Business.&#148; 

NAPA . The Company is the sole member of the National Automotive Parts Association, a voluntary association formed in 1925 to provide nationwide distribution of automotive parts. NAPA, which neither buys nor sells automotive parts, functions as a trade association and whose sole member in 2015 owned and operated 59 distribution centers located throughout the United States. NAPA develops marketing concepts and programs that may be used by its members which, at December 31, 2015, includes only the Company. It is not involved in the chain of distribution. 

Among the automotive products purchased by the Company from various manufacturers for distribution are certain lines designated, cataloged, advertised and promoted as &#147;NAPA&#148; lines. Generally, the Company is not required to purchase any specific quantity of parts so designated and it may, and does, purchase competitive lines from the same as well as other supply sources. 

The Company uses the federally registered trademark NAPA &#174; as part of the trade name of its distribution centers and parts stores. The Company contributes to NAPA&#146;s national advertising program, which is designed to increase public recognition of the NAPA name and to promote NAPA product lines. 

The Company is a party, together with the former members of NAPA, to a consent decree entered by the Federal District Court in Detroit, Michigan, on May 4, 1954. The consent decree enjoins certain practices under the federal antitrust laws, including the use of exclusive agreements with manufacturers of automotive parts, allocation or division of territories among the Company and former NAPA members, fixing of prices or terms of sale for such parts among such members, and agreements to adhere to any uniform policy in selecting parts customers or determining the number and location of, or arrangements with, auto parts customers. 

INDUSTRIAL PARTS GROUP 

The Industrial Parts Group is operated as Motion Industries, Inc. (&#147;Motion&#148;), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. Motion distributes industrial replacement parts and related supplies such as bearings, mechanical and electrical power transmission products, industrial automation, hose, hydraulic and pneumatic components, industrial and safety supplies and material handling products to MRO (maintenance, repair and operation) and OEM (original equipment manufacturer) customers throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico. 

In Canada, industrial parts are distributed by Motion Industries (Canada), Inc. (&#147;Motion Canada&#148;). The Mexican market is served by Motion Mexico S de RL de CV (&#147;Motion Mexico&#148;). These organizations operate in the Company&#146;s North American structure. 

In 2015, the Industrial Parts Group served more than 150,000 customers in all types of industries located throughout North America, including the food and beverage, forest products, primary metals, pulp and paper, mining, automotive, oil and gas, petrochemical and pharmaceutical industries; as well as strategically targeted specialty industries such as power generation, wastewater treatment facilities, alternative energy, government, transportation, ports, and others. Motion services all manufacturing and processing industries with access to a database of 6.5 million parts. Additionally, Motion provides U.S. government agencies access to approximately 400,000 products and replacement parts through a Government Services Administration (GSA) schedule. 

&#160; 

Effective February 1, 2015, Motion expanded its product and service offering in Alaska with the acquisition of Oil &#38; Gas Supply, located in Anchorage, Alaska. We expect this business to generate $2-3 million in annual revenues. 

Effective February 2, 2015, Motion acquired Miller Bearings, a regional industrial distributor of bearings, power transmission products, industrial and safety supplies, hydraulic and pneumatic components. Headquartered in Orlando, Florida, Miller operates 17 branch locations throughout the state and one distribution center. In addition, Miller has an export office providing industrial MRO products to Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic and other Caribbean customers. Miller generates approximately $40 million in annual revenues and is operated as Miller Industrial Solutions, a division of Motion Industries. 

In 2015, the Industrial Parts Group also acquired Lake Erie Abrasive and Tool (&#147;LEAT&#148;) and Moss Rubber. LEAT was acquired on September 1, 2015, and is a distributor of abrasive tooling for the manufacturing industry. Moss Rubber was acquired December 1, 2015, and is a distributor of industrial rubber products including hose, belting, fittings and related products. LEAT and Moss Rubber are expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $30 million and $8 million, respectively. 

The Industrial Parts Group provides customers with supply chain efficiencies achieved through the company&#146;s Inventory Management Solutions offering. This service provides inventory management, asset repair and tracking, vendor managed inventory commonly referred to as VMI, as well as RFID asset management of the customer&#146;s inventory. Motion&#146;s Energy Services Team routinely performs in-plant surveys and assessments, helping customers reduce their energy consumption and finding opportunities for improved sustainability, ultimately helping customers operate more profitably. Motion also provides a wide range of services and repairs such as: gearbox and fluid power assembly repair, process pump assembly and repair, hydraulic drive shaft repair, electrical panel assembly and repair, hose and gasket manufacture and assembly, as well as many other value-added services. A highly developed supply chain with vendor partnerships and connectivity are enhanced by Motion&#146;s leading e-business capabilities, such as MiSupplierConnect, which provides integration between the Company&#146;s information technology network and suppliers&#146; systems, creating numerous benefits for both the supplier and customer. These services and supply chain efficiencies assist Motion in meeting the cost savings that many of its customers require and expect. 

Distribution System . In North America, the Industrial Parts Group operated 533 branches, 15 distribution centers and 46 service centers as of December 31, 2015. The distribution centers stock and distribute more than 260,000 different items purchased from more than 1,025 different suppliers. The service centers provide hydraulic, hose and mechanical repairs for customers. Approximately 33% of 2015 total industrial product purchases were made from 10 major suppliers. Sales are generated from the Industrial Parts Group&#146;s branches located in 49 states, Puerto Rico, nine provinces in Canada, and Mexico. Each branch has warehouse facilities that stock significant amounts of inventory representative of the products used by customers in the respective market area served. 

Products . The Industrial Parts Group distributes a wide variety of parts and products to its customers, which are primarily industrial concerns. Products include such items as hoses, belts, bearings, pulleys, pumps, valves, chains, gears, sprockets, speed reducers, electric motors, and industrial supplies. In recent years, Motion expanded its offering to include systems and automation products in response to the increasing sophistication of motion control and process automation for full systems integration of plant equipment. Manufacturing trends and government policies have led to opportunities in the &#147;green&#148; and energy-efficient product markets, focusing on product offerings such as energy-efficient motors and drives, recyclable and environmentally friendly parts and supplies. The nature of this group&#146;s business demands the maintenance of adequate inventories and the ability to promptly meet demanding delivery requirements. Virtually all of the products distributed are installed by the customer or used in plant and facility maintenance activities. Most orders are filled immediately from existing stock and deliveries are normally made within 24 hours of receipt of order. The majority of all sales are on open account. Motion has ongoing purchase agreements with existing customers that represent approximately 50% of the annual sales volume. 

&#160; 

Supply Agreements . Non-exclusive distributor agreements are in effect with most of the Industrial Parts Group&#146;s suppliers. The terms of these agreements vary; however, it has been the experience of the Industrial Parts Group that the custom of the trade is to treat such agreements as continuing until breached by one party or until terminated by mutual consent. Motion has return privileges with most of its suppliers, which has protected the Company from inventory obsolescence. 

Segment Data . In the year ended December 31, 2015, sales from the Company&#146;s Industrial Parts Group approximated 30% of the Company&#146;s net sales, as compared to 31% in 2014 and 2013. For additional segment information, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1. 

Competition . The industrial parts distribution business is highly competitive. The Industrial Parts Group competes with other distributors specializing in the distribution of such items, general line distributors and others who provide similar services. To a lesser extent, the Industrial Parts Group competes with manufacturers that sell directly to the customer. The Industrial Parts Group competes primarily on the breadth of product offerings, service and price. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in &#147;Item 1A. Risk Factors &#151; We Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do Business.&#148; 

OFFICE PRODUCTS GROUP 

The Office Products Group, operated through S. P. Richards Company (&#147;S. P. Richards&#148; or &#147;SPR&#148;), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. S. P. Richards is engaged in the wholesale distribution of a broad line of office and other business related products through a diverse customer base of resellers. These products are used in homes, businesses, schools, offices, and other institutions. Office products fall into the general categories of office furniture, technology products, general office and school supplies, cleaning, janitorial and breakroom supplies, safety and security items, healthcare products and disposable food service products. 

The Office Products Group is represented in Canada through S. P. Richards Canada, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company headquartered near Toronto, Ontario. S. P. Richards Canada services office product resellers throughout Canada from locations in Vancouver, Toronto, Calgary, Edmonton and Winnipeg. 

Effective January 2, 2015, S. P. Richards acquired JAL Associates Inc. (&#147;JAL&#148;). JAL is a regional wholesaler of office furniture with estimated annual revenues of $12 million. This business was consolidated into SPR&#146;s operations in Baltimore, Maryland; Cranbury, New Jersey; and Richmond, Virginia during 2015. 

Effective May 1, 2015, S. P. Richards acquired the commercial products business of Dinesol Plastics, located in Niles, Ohio. This acquisition further expands SPR&#146;s food service and janitorial product offering and is expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $3 million. 

Effective October 1, 2015, S. P. Richards acquired Malt Industries (&#147;Malt&#148;), a leading wholesale distributor of protective apparel located in Purvis, Mississippi. Malt is expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $20 million. 

Distribution System . The Office Products Group distributes more than 62,000 items to over 6,300 resellers and distributors throughout the United States and Canada from a network of 45 distribution centers. This group&#146;s network of strategically located distribution centers provides overnight delivery of the Company&#146;s comprehensive product offering. Approximately 41% of the Company&#146;s 2015 total office products purchases were made from 10 major suppliers. 

The Office Products Group sells to a wide variety of resellers. These resellers include independently owned office product dealers, national office product superstores and mass merchants, large contract stationers, mail order companies, Internet resellers, college bookstores, military base stores, office furniture dealers, value-added technology resellers, business machine dealers, janitorial and sanitation supply distributors, safety product resellers and food service distributors. Resellers are offered comprehensive marketing programs, which include print and electronic catalogs and flyers, digital content and email campaigns for reseller websites, and education and training resources. In addition, world class market analytics programs are made available to qualified resellers. 

&#160; 

Products . The Office Products Group distributes technology products and consumer electronics including storage media, printer supplies, iPad, iPhone and computer accessories, calculators, shredders, laminators, copiers, printers, fitness bracelets and digital cameras; office furniture including desks, credenzas, chairs, chair mats, office suites, panel systems, file, mobile and storage cabinets and computer workstations; general office supplies including desk accessories, business forms, accounting supplies, binders, filing supplies, report covers, writing instruments, envelopes, note pads, copy paper, mailroom and shipping supplies, drafting and audiovisual supplies; school and educational products including bulletin boards, teaching aids and art supplies; healthcare products including first aid supplies, gloves, exam room supplies and furnishings, cleaners and waste containers; janitorial and cleaning supplies; safety supplies; disposable food service products; and breakroom supplies including napkins, utensils, snacks and beverages. S. P. Richards has return privileges with most of its suppliers, which have protected the Company from inventory obsolescence. 

While the Company&#146;s inventory includes products from nearly 700 of the industry&#146;s leading manufacturers worldwide, S. P. Richards also markets products under its nine proprietary brands. These brands include: Sparco&#153;, an economical line of office supply basics; Compucessory &#174; , a line of computer accessories; Lorell &#174; , a line of office furniture; NatureSaver &#174; , an offering of recycled products; Elite Image &#174; , a line of new and remanufactured toner cartridges, premium papers and labels; Integra&#153;, a line of writing instruments; Genuine Joe &#174; , a line of cleaning and breakroom products; Business Source &#174; , a line of basic office supplies available only to independent resellers; and Lighthouse, a brand of janitorial and cleaning products offered through the GCN business. The Company&#146;s Impact and Malt businesses also offer an additional series of proprietary brands including ProGuard &#174; and ProMax &#174; that are product based and solution-specific oriented. Through the Company&#146;s FurnitureAdvantage&#153; program, S. P. Richards provides resellers with an additional 16,000 furniture items made available to consumers in 7 to 10 business days. 

Segment Data . In the year ended December 31, 2015, sales from the Company&#146;s Office Products Group approximated 13% of the Company&#146;s net sales, as compared to 11% in 2014 and 12% in 2013. For additional segment information, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1. 

Competition . The office products distribution business is highly competitive. In the distribution of its product offering to resellers, S. P. Richards competes with many other wholesale distributors, as well as with certain manufacturers of office products. S. P. Richards competes primarily on product offerings, service, marketing programs, brand recognition and price. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in &#147;Item 1A. Risk Factors &#151; We Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do Business.&#148; 

ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC MATERIALS GROUP 

The Electrical/Electronic Materials Group, operated as EIS, Inc. (&#147;EIS&#148;), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. EIS distributes materials to more than 20,000 electrical and electronic manufacturers, as well as to industrial assembly and specialty wire and cable markets in North America. With 49 branch locations in the United States, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Mexico and Canada, EIS distributes over 100,000 items including wire, cable and connectivity solutions, insulating and conductive materials, assembly tools and test equipment. EIS also has seven light manufacturing facilities that provide custom fabricated parts and specialty coated materials. 

Effective April 1, 2015, EIS acquired Connect Air International, Inc. (&#147;Connect Air&#148;) headquartered in Seattle, Washington. Connect Air is a leading North American specialty distributor of low-voltage wire and cable used in building applications, primarily HVAC (heating, ventilations and air-conditioning), security and fire alarm systems. Connect Air has six sales offices and warehouses across the United States and is expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $30 million. 

Distribution System . The Electrical/Electronic Materials Group provides distribution services to OEM&#146;s, motor repair shops, specialty wire and cable users in market segments such as Telecom, Marine, Security and Industrial, as well as a broad variety of industrial assembly markets. EIS actively utilizes its e-commerce Internet site to present its products to customers while allowing these on-line visitors to conveniently purchase from a large product assortment. 

&#160; 

Electrical and electronic, industrial assembly, and wire and cable products are distributed from warehouse locations in major user markets throughout the United States, as well as in Mexico, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the Dominican Republic. EIS has return privileges with some of its suppliers, which have protected the Company from inventory obsolescence. 

Products . The Electrical/Electronic Materials Group distributes a wide variety of products to customers from over 400 suppliers. These products include custom fabricated flexible materials that are used as components within a customer&#146;s manufactured finished product in a variety of market segments. Among the products distributed and fabricated are such items as magnet wire, conductive materials, electrical wire and cable, insulating and shielding materials, assembly tools, test equipment, adhesives and chemicals, pressure sensitive tapes, solder, anti-static products, thermal management products and coated films. To meet the prompt delivery demands of its customers, this Group maintains large inventories. The majority of sales are on open account. Approximately 55% of 2015 total Electrical/Electronic Materials Group purchases were made from 10 major suppliers. 

Integrated Supply . The Electrical/Electronic Materials Group&#146;s integrated supply programs are a part of the marketing strategy, as a greater number of customers &#151; especially national accounts &#151; are given the opportunity to participate in this low-cost, high-service capability. EIS has developed AIMS&#153; (Advanced Inventory Management Solutions System), a totally integrated, highly automated solution for inventory management. EIS&#146; Integrated Supply offering also includes AIMS EASI, an electronic vending dispenser used to eliminate costly tool cribs, or in-house stores, at customer warehouse facilities. 

Segment Data . In the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, sales from the Company&#146;s Electrical/Electronic Materials Group approximated 5% of the Company&#146;s net sales, as compared to 4% in 2013. For additional segment information, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1. 

Competition . The electrical and electronics distribution business is highly competitive. The Electrical/Electronic Materials Group competes with other distributors specializing in the distribution of electrical and electronic products, general line distributors and, to a lesser extent, manufacturers that sell directly to customers. EIS competes primarily on factors of price, product offerings, service and engineered solutions. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in &#147;Item 1A. Risk Factors &#151; We Face Substantial Competition in the Industries in Which We Do Business.&#148; 

&#160;

