 Item 1. Business 

General

We are a leading manufacturer, remanufacturer, and distributor of aftermarket automotive parts for import and domestic cars, light trucks, heavy duty, agricultural and industrial applications. We sell our products predominantly in North America to the largest auto parts retail and traditional warehouse chains and to major automobile manufacturers for both their aftermarket programs and their warranty replacement programs (&#8220;OES&#8221;).

The current population of vehicles in the U.S. is approximately 253 million and the average age of these vehicles is approximately 11.5 years. While the aged vehicle population is favorable today, miles driven continues to fluctuate primarily based on fuel prices. We believe d emand and replacement rates for aftermarket automotive parts generally increase with the age of vehicles and increases in miles driven.

The aftermarket for automobile parts is divided into two markets. The first market is the do-it-yourself (&#8220;DIY&#8221;) market, which is generally serviced by the large retail chain outlets. Consumers who purchase parts from the DIY channel generally install parts into their vehicles themselves. In most cases, this is a less expensive alternative than having the repair performed by a professional installer. The second is the professional installer market, commonly known as the do-it-for-me (&#8220;DIFM&#8221;) market. This market is serviced by the traditional warehouse distributors, the dealer networks, and the commercial divisions of retail chains. Generally, the consumer in this channel is a professional parts installer. Our products are distributed to both the DIY and DIFM markets.

Pursuant to the guidance provided under the Financial Accounting Standards Board (&#8220;FASB&#8221;) Accounting Standards Codification (&#8220;ASC&#8221;) for segment reporting, we have identified our chief executive officer as our chief operating decision maker (&#8220;CODM&#8221;), have reviewed the documents used by the CODM, and understand how such documents are used by the CODM to make financial and operating decisions. We have determined through this review process that our business comprises one reportable segment for purposes of recording and reporting our financial results.

Growth Strategies

We are focused on growing our share in all channels within the aftermarket, including DIY, DIFM and OES. We are well positioned for growth in all channels, in particular the DIFM market in three ways: (i) our auto parts retail customers are expanding their efforts to target the DIFM market, (ii) we sell our products under private label and our own brand names directly to suppliers that focus on professional installers, and (iii) we sell our products to original equipment manufacturers for distribution to the professional installer both for warranty replacement and their general aftermarket channels. We have been successful in growing sales to all channels of the aftermarket.

Our goal is to take advantage of multiple growth strategies. To accomplish this, key elements of our strategy include:

&#160;

&#9679; Grow our product lines both with existing and potential new customers. &#160; We continue to develop and offer current and new sales programs to ensure that we are doing all we can to support our customers&#8217; businesses. We remain dedicated to manage growth and continue to focus on enhancements to our infrastructure and making investments in resources to support our customers. 

&#160;

&#9679; Introduction of new product lines. &#160; We continue to strive to expand our business by exploring new product lines including working with our existing customers to identify potential new product opportunities. We expect to launch a new product line in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. 

&#160;

&#9679; The strategic acquisition of other companies or businesses. &#160; We have in the past and intend to continue to making strategic acquisitions to grow our business. We maintain an in-house acquisition team that continuously works to identify potential new targets. 

&#160;

&#9679; Creating value for our customers. A &#160; core part of our strategy is ensuring that we add meaningful value for our customers. We consistently support and pilot our customers&#8217; supply management initiatives in addition to providing demand analytics, inventory planning, market share, and retail store layout information to our customers. 

&#160;

Products

Our current products include (i) rotating electrical products such as alternators and starters, (ii) wheel hub assemblies and bearings, and (iii) brake master cylinders.

Our products meet or exceed original equipment manufacturer specifications. We produce both new and remanufactured units. Remanufacturing generally creates a supply of parts at a lower cost to the end user than newly manufactured parts and makes available automotive parts which are no longer manufactured. Our remanufactured parts are generally sold at competitively lower prices than most new replacement parts. We believe most of our automotive parts are non-elective replacement parts in all makes and models of vehicles because they are required for a vehicle to operate.

We recycle materials, including metal from the Used Cores and corrugated packaging, in keeping with our focus of positively impacting the environment.

The increasing complexity of cars and light trucks and the number of different makes and models of these vehicles have resulted in a significant increase in the number of different automotive parts required to service vehicles. We carry over 13,000 stock keeping units (&#8220;SKUs&#8221;) for automotive parts that are sold under our customers&#8217; widely recognized private label brand names and our Quality-Built &#174; , Pure Energy&#8482;, Xtreme &#174; , Reliance&#8482; &#160; and other brand names.

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

We sell our products to the largest automotive chains in North America including Advance (inclusive of Carquest, Autopart International, and Worldpac), AutoZone, Genuine Parts (NAPA), O&#8217;Reilly, and Pep Boys, with an aggregate of approximately 24,000 retail outlets. In addition, we sell our products to OES customers, professional installers, and a diverse group of automotive warehouse distributors.

We publish printed and electronic catalogs with part numbers and applications for our products along with a detailed technical glossary and informational database. We believe that we maintain one of the most extensive catalog and product identification systems available to the market.

We ship our products from our facilities and fee warehouses located in North America.

Customers: Customer Concentration . While we continually seek to diversify our customer base, we currently derive, and have historically derived, a substantial portion of our sales from a small number of large customers. During fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, sales to our three largest customers in the aggregate represented 87%, 86% and 83%, respectively, of our net sales, and sales to our largest customer, AutoZone, represented 48%, 56% and 53%, respectively, of our net sales. Any meaningful reduction in the level of sales to any of these customers, deterioration of the financial condition of any of these customers or the loss of any of these customers could have a materially adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.

Customer Arrangements; Impact on Working Capital . We have various length agreements with our customers. Under these agreements, which in most cases have initial terms of at least four years, we are designated as the exclusive or primary supplier for specified categories of our products. Because of the very competitive nature of the market and the limited number of customers for these products, our customers have sought and obtained price concessions, significant marketing allowances and more favorable delivery and payment terms in consideration for our designation as a customer&#8217;s exclusive or primary supplier. These incentives differ from contract to contract and can include (i) the issuance of a specified amount of credits against receivables in accordance with a schedule set forth in the relevant contract, (ii) support for a particular customer&#8217;s research or marketing efforts provided on a scheduled basis, (iii) discounts granted in connection with each individual shipment of product, and (iv) store expansion or product development support. These contracts typically require that we meet ongoing standards related to fulfillment, price, and quality. Our contracts with major customers expire at various dates through April 2021.

&#160;

While these longer-term agreements strengthen our customer relationships, the increased demand for our products often requires that we increase our inventories and personnel. Customer demands that we purchase and maintain their Remanufactured Core inventory also requires the use of our available working capital. The marketing and other allowances we typically grant our customers in connection with our new or expanded customer relationships adversely impact near-term revenues, profitability and associated cash flows from these arrangements. However, we believe the investment we make in these new or expanded customer relationships will improve our overall liquidity and cash flow from operations over time.

Competition

The market for aftermarket automotive parts is highly competitive. We compete with several large and medium sized remanufacturers, including BBB Industries, Remy/BorgWarner Inc., and a large number of smaller regional and specialty remanufacturers. We also compete with overseas manufacturers, particularly those located in China, who are increasing their operations and could become a significant competitive force in the future.

We believe that the reputations for quality and customer service that a supplier provides are significant factors in our customers&#8217; purchase decisions. We believe that our ability to provide quality replacement automotive parts, rapid and reliable delivery capabilities as well as promotional support distinguishes us from many of our competitors and provides a competitive advantage. In addition, we believe favorable pricing, our core exchange program, and extended payment terms are also very important competitive factors in customers&#8217; purchase decisions.

We seek to protect our proprietary processes and other information by relying on trade secret laws and non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees and other persons who have access to that information.

Operations

Production Process. The majority of our products are remanufactured. &#160; Our remanufacturing process begins with the receipt of Used Cores from our customers or core brokers. The Used Cores are evaluated for inventory control purposes and then sorted by part number. Each Used Core is completely disassembled into its fundamental components. The components are cleaned in an environmentally-sound process that employs customized equipment and cleaning materials in accordance with the required specifications of the particular component. All components known to be subject to major wear and those components determined not to be reusable or repairable are replaced by new components. Non-salvageable components of the Used Core are sold as scrap.

After the cleaning process is complete, the salvageable components of the Used Core are inspected and tested as prescribed by our ISO TS 16949 approved quality control program, which is implemented throughout the production process. ISO TS 16949 is an internationally recognized, world class, automotive quality system. Upon passage of all tests, which are monitored by designated quality control personnel, all the component parts are assembled in a work cell into a finished product. Inspection and testing are conducted at multiple stages of the remanufacturing process, and each finished product is inspected and tested on equipment designed to simulate performance under operating conditions. To maximize remanufacturing efficiency, we store component parts ready for assembly in our production facilities.

Our remanufacturing processes combine product families with similar configurations into dedicated factory work cells. This remanufacturing process, known as &#8220;lean manufacturing,&#8221; replaced the more traditional assembly line approach we had previously utilized and eliminated a large number of inventory moves and the need to track inventory movement through the remanufacturing process. This lean manufacturing process has been fully implemented at all of our production facilities. This manufacturing enables us to significantly reduce the time it takes to produce a finished product. We continue to explore opportunities for improving efficiencies in our remanufacturing process.

&#160;

Offshore Remanufacturing. The majority of our remanufacturing operations are conducted at our facilities in Mexico and Malaysia. We continue to maintain production of certain remanufactured units that require specialized service and/or rapid turnaround in our U.S. facilities. In addition, we operate shipping and receiving warehouses and testing facilities in Singapore and China for our products.

Used Cores. The majority of our Used Cores are obtained from customers using our core exchange program. The core exchange program consists of the following steps:

&#8226; Our customers purchase from us a remanufactured unit to be sold to their consumer. 

&#8226; Our customers offer their consumers a credit to exchange their used unit (Used Core) at the time the consumer purchases a remanufactured unit. 

&#8226; We, in turn, offer our customers a credit to send us these Used Cores. The credit reduces our accounts receivable. 

Our customers are not obligated to send us all the Used Cores exchanged by their consumers. We have historically purchased Used Cores in the open market from core brokers who specialize in buying and selling Used Cores to supplement the supply of Used Cores sent to us by our customers. Although the open market is not a primary source of Used Cores, it is a critical source for meeting our raw material demands. Remanufacturing consumes, on average, more than one Used Core for each remanufactured unit produced since not all Used Cores are reusable. The yield rates depend upon both the product and customer specifications.

The price of a finished remanufactured product sold to our customers is generally comprised of an amount for remanufacturing (&#8220;unit value&#8221;) and an amount separately invoiced for the Remanufactured Core included in the product (&#8220;Remanufactured Core charge&#8221;). The Remanufactured Core charge is equal to the credit we offer to induce the customer to use our core exchange program and send back the Used Cores to us. The ability to obtain Used Cores, materials and components of the types and quantities we need is essential to our ability to meet demand.

Purchased Finished Goods . In addition to our remanufactured goods, we also purchase finished goods from various suppliers, including several located in Asia. We perform supplier qualification, product inspection and testing according to our ISO TS 16949 certified quality system to assure product quality levels. We also perform periodic site audits of our suppliers&#8217; manufacturing facilities.

Return Rights. Under our customer agreements and general industry practice, our customers are allowed stock adjustments if their inventory of certain product lines exceeds the inventory necessary to support sales to end-user consumers (stock adjustment returns). Customers have various contractual rights for stock adjustment returns which are typically less than 5% of units sold. In some instances, we allow a higher level of returns in connection with significant restocking orders. In addition, we allow customers to return goods to us that their end-user consumers have returned to them. We allow this general right of return regardless of whether the returned item is or is not defective. We seek to limit aggregate returns to less than 20% of unit sales. Stock adjustment returns do not occur at any specific time during the year.

As is standard in the industry, we only accept returns from on-going customers. If a customer ceases doing business with us, we have no further obligation to accept additional product returns from that customer. Similarly, we accept product returns and grant appropriate credits to new customers from the time the new customer relationship is established.

&#160;

Employees

We employed 2,663 full-time global employees as of March 31, 2016. We use independent contractors and temporary employees to supplement our workforce as needed. A union represents 2,080 of the employees at our Mexico facility. All other employees are non-union. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.

Governmental Regulation

Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. We believe that our businesses, operations and facilities have been and are being operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. Potentially significant expenditures, however, could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental and health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future.

&#160;

