 Item 1. Business. 

General Development of Business 

Overview 

Carey Watermark Investors 2 Incorporated, or CWI 2, and together with its consolidated subsidiaries, we, us or our, is a publicly-owned, non-listed real estate investment trust, or REIT, formed as a Maryland corporation in May 2014 for the purpose of acquiring, owning, disposing of and, through Carey Lodging Advisors, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, or our advisor, managing and seeking to enhance the value of interests in lodging and lodging-related properties primarily in the United States. As a REIT, we are not subject to U.S. federal income taxation as long as we satisfy certain requirements, principally relating to the nature of our income, the level of our distributions to our stockholders and other factors. We conduct substantially all of our investment activities and own all of our assets through CWI 2 OP, LP, a Delaware limited partnership, or our Operating Partnership. We are a general partner and a limited partner and own a 99.985% &#32;capital interest in the Operating Partnership. Carey Watermark Holdings 2, LLC, or Carey Watermark Holdings 2, which is owned indirectly by W. P. Carey Inc., or WPC, holds a special general partner interest of 0.015% &#32;in the Operating Partnership. In order to qualify as a REIT, we cannot operate hotels directly; therefore, we lease our hotels to our wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, which we refer to as TRSs, and collectively as the TRS lessees. At December 31, 2015 , we held ownership interests in four &#32;hotels, with a total of 1,586 &#32;rooms. 

We are managed by our advisor, an indirect subsidiary of WPC, pursuant to an advisory agreement, dated February 9, 2015, as amended, among us, the Operating Partnership and our advisor, which we refer to herein as the advisory agreement. Under the advisory agreement, our advisor is responsible for managing our overall hotel portfolio, including providing oversight and strategic guidance to the independent hotel operators that manage our hotels. On February 9, 2015, CWA 2, LLC, or the subadvisor, entered into a subadvisory agreement with our advisor, which we refer to herein as the subadvisory agreement. The subadvisor provides services to our advisor primarily relating to acquiring, managing, financing and disposing of our hotels and overseeing the independent operators that manage the day-to-day operations of our hotels. In addition, the subadvisor provides us with the services of Michael G. Medzigian, our chief executive officer, subject to the approval of our independent directors. 

WPC is a publicly-traded REIT listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#8220;WPC.&#8221; During its more than 40-year history, WPC has sponsored and advised nine partnerships and eight REITs under the Corporate Property Associates and Carey Institutional Properties brand names, which we refer to as the CPA &#174; REITs, and two REITs under the Carey Watermark Investors brand name. Like us, Carey Watermark Investors Incorporated, or CWI 1, is focused on investing in lodging and lodging-related properties. None of the currently active CPA &#174; &#160; REITs are focused on investing in lodging and lodging-related properties. WPC also serves as an advisor for Carey Credit Income Fund, the master fund in a master/feeder fund structure where the master and each feeder have elected to be treated as a business development company, or CCIF. 

Watermark Capital Partners, LLC is a private investment firm formed in May 2002 that focuses on assets that benefit from specialized marketing strategies and demographic shifts, including hotels and resorts, resort residential products, recreational projects (including golf and club ownership programs), and new-urbanism and mixed-use projects. The principal of Watermark Capital Partners, Michael G. Medzigian, has managed lodging properties valued in excess of $5.2 billion during his over 35 years of experience in the lodging and real estate industries, including as the chief executive officer of Lazard Freres Real Estate Investors, a real estate private equity management organization, and as a senior partner of Olympus Real Estate Corporation, the real estate fund management affiliate of Hicks, Muse, Tate and Furst Incorporated. 

On February 9, 2015, our Registration Statement on Form S-11 (File No. 333-196681), covering an initial public offering of up to $ 1.4 billion of Class A shares, was declared effective by the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The Registration Statement also covered the offering of up to $600.0 million of Class A shares pursuant to our distribution reinvestment plan, or DRIP. On April 1, 2015, we filed an amended Registration Statement to include Class T shares in our initial public offering and under our DRIP, which was declared effective by the SEC on April 13, 2015, allowing for the sales of Class A and Class T shares, in any combination, of up to $1.4 billion in the offering and up to $600.0 million through our DRIP. Our initial public offering is being offered on a &#8220;best efforts&#8221; basis by Carey Financial, LLC, or Carey Financial, an affiliate of our advisor, and other selected dealers. 

On May 15, 2015, aggregate subscription proceeds for our Class A and Class T common stock exceeded the minimum offering amount of $2.0 million and we began to admit stockholders. From May 22, 2014, which we refer to as our Inception, through December 31, 2015, we raised offering proceeds of $105.7 million for our Class A common stock and $141.2 million for our 

CWI 2 2015 10-K &#32; &#8211; 3 

Class T common stock. During the same period, we also raised $0.2 million &#32;through our DRIP for each of our Class A and Class T common stock. We intend to use the net proceeds of the offering to acquire, own and manage a portfolio of interests in lodging and lodging-related properties. While our core strategy is focused on the lodging industry, we may also invest in other real estate property sectors. 

The advisor determined our estimated net asset values per share, or NAVs, as of December 31, 2015 to be $10.53 for both the Class A shares and the Class T Shares. 

We suspended our offering prior to the determination of the NAVs to allow us to update our public disclosure and to facilitate the orderly processing of sales. We intend to adjust the offering prices based on the NAVs and resume the current offering reflecting the new offering prices of $11.70 per Class A share and $11.17 per Class T share as soon as it is practicable to do so. 

We have no employees. At December 31, 2015 , WPC employed 314 &#32;individuals who were available to perform services for us under our advisory agreement ( Note 3 ) and Watermark Capital Partners employed 12 &#32;individuals who were available to perform services for us through the subadvisory agreement. 

Financial Information About Segments 

We operate in one reportable segment &#8211; Hospitality. See Our Portfolio &#32;below. 

Narrative Description of Business 

Business Objectives and Strategy 

We are a non-traded REIT that strives to create value in the lodging industry. 

Our primary investment objectives are: 

&#8226; 

to provide stockholders with current income in the form of quarterly distributions; and 

&#8226; 

to increase the value of our portfolio in order to generate long-term capital appreciation. 

We plan to meet our objectives by acquiring a diverse portfolio of lodging and lodging-related investments, including those that offer high current income, properties to which we can add value and provide the opportunity for capital appreciation, and to the extent available, distressed situations where we may be able to make opportunistic investments. 

We intend to develop a diversified portfolio that has the potential to generate attractive risk adjusted returns across economic cycles, while mitigating the risk associated with any one geography or lodging category. We believe that a lodging portfolio that is diversified both geographically and across multiple lodging categories provides the opportunity to benefit from growth, while mitigating risk from lagging performance that is geographically specific or focused on specific lodging categories. 

Our core strategy for achieving these objectives is to acquire, own, dispose of and manage, and seek to enhance the value of, interests in lodging and lodging related investments that are expected to generate current income and have the potential for growth through value add strategies. While our core strategy is focused on the lodging industry, we may also invest in other real estate property sectors, although we have not made any such investments to date. We will adjust our investment focus from time to time based upon market conditions and our advisor's views on relative value as market conditions change. Material changes in our investment focus will be described in our periodic reports filed with the SEC; however, these reports would typically be filed after changes in our investment focus have been made, and in some cases, several months after such changes. 

As a REIT, we are allowed to own lodging properties, but are prohibited from operating these properties. In order to comply with applicable REIT qualification rules, we will enter into leases with certain of our subsidiaries organized as TRSs. The TRS lessees will in turn contract with independent property operators that will manage the day-to-day operations of our properties. 

We believe that the following market factors and attributes of our investment model are particularly important to our ability to meet our investment objective: 

&#8226; 

An investment model that incorporates a diversified lodging portfolio provides the potential to generate attractive risk adjusted returns across economic cycles while mitigating the risks associated with any one geographic or lodging segment. 

&#8226; 

Our investment model should benefit from the continuing improvement in lodging industry fundamentals. 

CWI 2 2015 10-K &#32; &#8211; 4 

&#8226; 

A lodging-centric investment strategy provides an opportunity for attractive returns and long-term growth in value, as well as a potentially effective inflation hedge. 

&#8226; 

As compared with certain other types of real estate assets, the lodging sector provides a broad range of value creation opportunities that can enhance returns. 

&#8226; 

We will deploy a differentiated investment approach. 

&#8226; 

Our investment strategy, resources and investment structure differentiate us from other sources of capital for the real estate industry. 

The lodging properties we acquire may include full-service branded hotels located in urban settings, resort properties, high-end independent urban and boutique hotels, select-service hotels and mixed-use projects with non-lodging components. Full-service hotels generally provide a full complement of guest amenities, including food and beverage services, meeting and conference facilities, concierge and room service, porter service or valet parking, among others. Select-service hotels typically have limited food and beverage outlets and do not offer comprehensive business or banquet facilities. Resort properties may include smaller boutique hotels and large-scale integrated resorts. 

Through December 31, 2015, we have invested in a full-service hotel, a select-service hotel and two resorts. 

We may engage in securitization transactions with respect to any loans we purchase. We do not plan to make investments in sub-prime mortgages. We expect to make investments primarily in the United States. However, we may consider, and are not prohibited under our organizational documents from making, investments outside the United States. 

Our advisor will evaluate potential acquisitions on a case-by-case basis. We are not required to meet any diversification standards and have no specific policies or restrictions regarding the geographic areas where we make investments or on the percentage of our capital that we may invest in a particular asset. However, without the prior approval of a majority of our independent directors, we may not invest more than 25% of our equity capital in non-lodging-related investments. We may also invest in permitted temporary investments, which include bank accounts and certificates of deposit, short-term U.S. government securities and other short-term liquid investments. 

Our Portfolio 

At December 31, 2015 , our portfolio was comprised of our full or partial ownership in four &#32;hotels with 1,586 &#32;guest rooms, all located in the U.S. market. See Item 2. Properties . 

Holding Period 

We generally intend to hold our investments in real property for an extended period depending on the type of investment. We may dispose of other types of investments, such as investments in securities, more frequently. The determination of whether a particular asset should be sold or otherwise disposed of will be made after consideration of relevant factors, including prevailing economic conditions, with a view to achieving maximum capital appreciation for our stockholders while avoiding increases in risk. No assurance can be given that this objective will be realized. 

Financing Strategies 

At December 31, 2015 , our hotel portfolio, including both our Consolidated and Unconsolidated Hotels, was 57% &#32;leveraged. We may fund some individual investments solely or primarily using our equity capital and others may be financed with greater than 50% leverage. Our organizational documents permit us to incur maximum leverage of up to 75% of the total costs of our investments, or 300% of our net assets, whichever is less, or a higher amount with the approval of a majority of our independent directors. 

Over time, we expect to meet our long-term liquidity requirements, including funding additional hotel property acquisitions, through long-term secured and unsecured borrowings and the issuance of additional equity or securities. 

Transactions With Affiliates 

We may borrow funds or purchase properties from, or enter into joint ventures with, our advisor, the subadvisor, or their respective affiliates, including CWI 1, the CPA &#174; REITs and WPC or its affiliates, if we believe that doing so is consistent with our investment objectives and we comply with our investment policies and procedures. We may also invest in other vehicles, such as real estate opportunity funds, that were formed, sponsored or managed by our advisor or the subadvisor and their respective affiliates. These transactions may take the form of jointly-owned ventures, direct purchases or sales of assets or debt, 

CWI 2 2015 10-K &#32; &#8211; 5 

mergers or another type of transaction. A majority of our directors (including the independent directors) must approve any significant investment in which we invest jointly with an entity sponsored and/or managed by our advisor, the subadvisor or their respective affiliates, including CWI 1 and the CPA &#174; REITs. 

Competition 

In raising funds for investment, we face active competition from other companies with similar investment objectives that seek to raise funds from investors through publicly registered, non-traded funds, publicly-traded funds and private funds such as hedge funds. Some of these entities may have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able and willing to accept more risk than we can prudently manage. Competition generally may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell and reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us or purchased by us. 

The hotel industry is highly competitive. Hotels we acquire compete with other hotels for guests in our markets. Competitive factors include location, convenience, brand affiliation, room rates, range and quality of services, facilities and guest amenities or accommodations offered. Competition in the markets in which our hotels operate include competition from existing, newly renovated and newly developed hotels in the relevant segments. Competition can adversely affect the occupancy, average daily rates, or ADR, and revenue per available room, or RevPAR, of our hotels, and thus our financial results, and may require us to provide additional amenities, incur additional costs or make capital improvements that we otherwise might not choose to make, which may adversely affect our profitability. 

Seasonality 

Certain lodging properties are seasonal in nature. Generally, occupancy rates and revenues are greater in the second and third quarters than in the first and fourth quarters. As a result of the seasonality of certain lodging properties, there may be quarterly fluctuations in results of operations of our properties. Quarterly financial results may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including weather conditions and poor economic factors. As a result, we may need to enter into short-term borrowings in certain periods in order to offset these fluctuations in revenues, to fund operations or to make distributions to our stockholders. 

Environmental Matters 

The hotel properties that we acquire are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Current and former owners and operators of property may have liability for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or disposing of hazardous materials released at, on, under, in or from the property. These laws typically impose responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or was responsible for the presence of hazardous materials or contamination, and liability under these laws is often joint and several. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous materials. As part of our efforts to mitigate these risks, we typically engage third parties to perform assessments of potential environmental risks when evaluating a new property acquisition, and we frequently obtain contractual protections (indemnities, cash reserves, letters of credit or other instruments) from property sellers, or another third party, to address known or potential environmental issues. 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas 

See Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#32;in Item 7 for financial information pertaining to our geographic operations. 

CWI 2 2015 10-K &#32; &#8211; 6 

Available Information 

We will supply to any stockholder, upon written request and without charge, a copy of this Report as filed with the SEC. All filings we make with the SEC, including this Report, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and our current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, are available for free on our website, http://www.careywatermark2.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. We are providing our website address solely for the information of investors. We do not intend our website to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the information contained on our website into this Report, or other filings with the SEC. Our SEC filings are available to be read or copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our filings can also be obtained for free on the SEC&#8217;s website at http://www.sec.gov. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all employees, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is available on our website, http://www.careywatermark2.com. We intend to make available on our website any future amendments or waivers to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics within four business days after any such amendments or waivers. 

CWI 2 2015 10-K &#32; &#8211; 7 

