 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company dedicated to discovering, developing and commercializing novel therapeutics to treat grievous blood-based disorders with significant unmet need. We are developing our initial product candidate, GBT440, as an oral, once-daily therapy for sickle cell disease, or SCD, and are currently evaluating GBT440 in SCD subjects in an ongoing Phase 1/2 clinical trial. SCD is a genetic disease marked by red blood cell, or RBC, destruction and occluded blood flow and hypoxia, leading to anemia, stroke, multi-organ failure, severe pain crises, and shortened patient life span. GBT440 inhibits abnormal hemoglobin polymerization, the underlying mechanism of RBC sickling. In our clinical trials of GBT440 in SCD subjects, we observed reduced markers of red blood cell destruction, improvements in anemia, improvements in markers of tissue oxygenation, reduced numbers of sickled RBCs, and reduced markers of inflammation. In addition to GBT440 for the treatment of SCD, we intend to evaluate GBT440 for the treatment of hypoxemic pulmonary disorders and intend initially to conduct a Phase 2a proof of concept study of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis subjects. We are also engaged in other research and development activities targeted towards hereditary angioedema, or HAE. We own and have exclusively licensed rights to our portfolio of product candidates in the United States, Europe and other major markets. We own or co-own one issued U.S. patent that covers the composition of matter for GBT440, which is due to expire in 2032 (absent any applicable patent term extensions), and we own or co-own additional pending patent applications in the United States and selected foreign countries. 

SCD is a genetic blood disorder caused by a single point mutation in the beta-chain of hemoglobin, which results in the formation of abnormal hemoglobin known as sickle hemoglobin, or HbS. Normally, oxygenated RBCs , travel from the lung through blood vessels. Hemoglobin, the oxygen carrying protein inside red blood cells, releases oxygen at the tissues. In SCD, when oxygen is released at the tissues, HbS becomes sticky and aggregates into polymers, or long, rigid rods within an RBC, much like a &#8220;sword within a balloon.&#8221; The RBC assumes a sickled shape and becomes inflexible, which can cause blockage in small blood vessels. These polymers destroy RBCs and block blood flow, resulting in decreased oxygen delivery to tissues. Beginning in early childhood, SCD patients suffer many clinical consequences, including unpredictable and recurrent episodes, or crises, of severe chronic and acute pain, anemia, stroke, spleen failure, pulmonary hypertension, acute chest syndrome, liver disease, kidney failure, other morbidities, and premature death. These consequences are directly related to reduced blood flow and insufficient oxygen delivery. A 2014 publication noted that in the United States, SCD resulted in a shortened patient life expectancy by approximately 25 to 30 years even with available therapies. 

Current treatment options for SCD are limited to hydroxyurea, or HU, blood transfusions and bone marrow transplantation. The utilization of these treatments is significantly limited due to their suboptimal efficacy and significant toxicity. As a result, patients with SCD continue to suffer serious morbidity and premature mortality. 

We believe there is a significant unmet medical need for a novel SCD therapy that: 

&#8226; 

inhibits abnormal hemoglobin polymer formation, the underlying mechanism of RBC sickling; 

&#8226; 

stops inappropriate RBC destruction and improves blood flow and oxygen delivery to tissues; 

&#8226; 

prevents or reduces the episodes or crises of severe pain associated with SCD; 

&#8226; 

modifies the long-term course of the disease; 

&#8226; 

is effective in all SCD genotypes, and in both children and adults; 

&#8226; 

has a more favorable side effect profile than currently available therapies; and 

&#8226; 

is available as a convenient, oral therapy. 

GBT440&#8217;s therapeutic approach was inspired by the natural activity of fetal hemoglobin, or HbF. HbF, which is present during fetal development and in early infancy until it is replaced with adult hemoglobin, has an inherently increased oxygen affinity that allows a fetus to extract oxygen from the mother&#8217;s blood. Typically, newborns with SCD do not experience RBC sickling until approximately six to nine months of age, after which HbF is usually no longer expressed. Additionally, it has been observed that rare individuals who have inherited both the HbS mutation as well as a gene deletion that allows them to continue to express 10 to 30% HbF in their RBCs into adulthood do not exhibit the clinical manifestations of SCD, despite expressing up to 90% HbS in their blood. HbF dilutes the concentration of deoxygenated HbS that can participate in polymerization, and thereby prevents hemoglobin polymers from forming. 

GBT440 is a novel, investigational drug that increases hemoglobin&#8217;s affinity for oxygen by binding to the alpha-chain of hemoglobin. GBT440 has been observed to keep a proportion of sickle hemoglobin in its oxygenated state, which cannot participate in polymerization. Similar to HbF, by diluting total HbS with a proportion of GBT440-bound hemoglobin, GBT440 prevents hemoglobin polymer formation. 

In December 2014, we initiated our randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, single and multiple ascending dose Phase 1/2 clinical trial of GBT440 in healthy subjects and subjects with SCD. The study is being conducted in three parts: Part A (single dose administration), Part B (multiple dose administration, daily for 15 days in healthy subjects and 28 days in SCD subjects), and Part C (multiple dose administration, daily for 90 days in SCD subjects). We are evaluating the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, or PK, and pharmacodynamics, or PD, of GBT440, as well as exploratory markers of SCD activity, including anti-hemolytic effects and SCD-related clinical effects. We reported initial results from our Phase 1/2 clinical trial at the American Society of Hematology meeting in December 2015. Among the 30 SCD subjects who received multiple doses of GBT440 (700mg or 500mg once a day), improvement in hemolytic parameters and tissue oxygenation as evidenced by declines in unconjugated bilirubin, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), reticulocyte counts, and erythropoietin levels, improvements in anemia as evidenced by an increase in hemoglobin (Hb) levels, as well as a marked reduction in sickled RBCs in the peripheral blood were observed from baseline (Day -1) to Day 28. We believe the initial observations from this trial demonstrate the potential for GBT440 to serve as a disease-modifying therapy for SCD. Subject to data from one or more cohorts in Part C, we intend to engage in discussions with U.S. and European regulatory authorities to define the future development plan for GBT440. In 2015, the FDA granted Fast Track Designation and Orphan Drug Designation for GBT440 for the treatment of SCD. 

We believe there is a significant market opportunity in SCD. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control, or CDC, estimates the prevalence of SCD at 90,000 to 100,000 individuals in the United States, where newborn screening is mandatory. It is estimated that the prevalence of SCD in Europe is approximately 60,000. The global incidence of SCD is estimated to be 250,000 to 300,000 births annually. One study estimated that in the United States, the average annual cost for the care of an adult patient with the most common genotype of SCD exceeds $200,000, and the cumulative lifetime costs exceed $8.0 million over an assumed 50-year lifespan, driven primarily by hospital admissions, physician fees, clinic and emergency department visits, and the costs of diagnostic procedures and outpatient consultations. 

Beyond SCD, building on positive data from preclinical models of hypoxemia, we plan to investigate GBT440 in a Phase 2a proof of concept clinical trial in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, or IPF, patients with hypoxemia. Results from this clinical trial will guide further clinical development in IPF as well as other chronic and acute hypoxemic pulmonary disorders. 

Additionally, in 2015 we nominated GBT018713, a proprietary, small molecule kallikrein inhibitor, for development as an orally administered therapy intended for the prevention of hereditary angioedema, or HAE, attacks. All currently marketed therapeutics for HAE must be administered intravenously or by subcutaneous injection. As a result, we believe that the availability of a safe and effective oral agent targeting a validated mechanism that prevents HAE attacks would have the potential to transform the treatment paradigm for this disease. We plan to complete toxicology studies to enable the filing of an Investigational New Drug (IND) application, submit an IND, and initiate a Phase 1 study for GBT018713 in 2016. 

To execute on this opportunity, we have assembled a team of employees, management and directors rich in scientific experience and capabilities in drug discovery, development and commercialization. Our management has a successful track record in developing and commercializing drug candidates. In aggregate, our management team has contributed to 18 drug approvals, including Avastin, CellCept, Herceptin, INTEGRILIN, Kaletra, Kyprolis and Rituxan. We intend to leverage this expertise and experience to rapidly advance the development of GBT440 for SCD, determine the potential of GBT440 in hypoxemic pulmonary disorders initially in IPF, pursue an IND filing for GBT18713 in HAE, and advance other product candidates that we may identify and develop. 

Our Development Pipeline 

The following table summarizes our development programs, potential indications, and their current stages of development: 

BT440 for the Treatment of Sickle Cell Disease 

We are developing GBT440 as a once-daily, oral therapy for patients with SCD. We are investigating GBT440&#8217;s potential to inhibit the abnormal polymerization of hemoglobin, which is the underlying mechanism of red blood cell sickling and leads to the associated complications that characterize SCD. We have designed a clinical program for GBT440 targeted at the treatment of adults, adolescents, children and infants across all SCD genotypes. In December 2014, we initiated our first clinical trial of GBT440, in which we are evaluating GBT440 in both healthy subjects and SCD subjects. Because we have designed this trial to assess safety and tolerability, as well as PK, PD and other exploratory endpoints, including anti-hemolytic and anti-sickling effects, we characterize the trial as a Phase 1/2 clinical trial. 

Sickle Cell Disease Overview 

SCD is a grievous disease that can lead to hemolytic anemia (the destruction of RBCs within blood vessels), vaso-occlusion (blocked blood flow to tissues), progressive multi-organ damage and early death. Beginning in childhood, patients suffer unpredictable and recurrent episodes or crises of severe pain due to blocked blood flow to organs, which often lead to physical and psychosocial disability. In addition, the constant destruction of RBCs with the release of their contents into the blood often leads to damaged or diseased blood vessels, which further exacerbate blood flow obstruction and multi-organ damage. Consequences of SCD can manifest in early childhood and may include stroke, spleen failure, pulmonary hypertension, acute chest syndrome, liver disease, kidney failure, leg ulcers, priapism (a medical emergency due to refractory penile erection) and premature death. A 2014 publication noted that in the United States SCD results in a decrease of approximately 25 to 30 years in life expectancy. 

SCD is a genetic blood disorder caused by a single gene mutation in the beta-chain of hemoglobin, which results in mutant hemoglobin known as sickle hemoglobin, or HbS. Hemoglobin is a protein in RBCs that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body&#8217;s tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin accomplishes this diametric function by binding and then releasing oxygen through allosterism, a process by which the hemoglobin molecule changes its shape to be high affinity for oxygen in the lungs, where oxygen is abundant, and low affinity for oxygen in the tissues, where oxygen must be released. Oxyhemoglobin, the high oxygen affinity form of hemoglobin, is formed in the lungs during respiration, when oxygen binds to the hemoglobin molecule, while deoxyhemoglobin, the low oxygen affinity form of hemoglobin, is formed when oxygen molecules are removed from the binding site as blood flows from the lungs to the body. In patients with SCD, deoxygenated HbS molecules polymerize to form long, rigid rods within an RBC, much like a &#8220;sword within a balloon.&#8221; As a 

consequence, the normally round and flexible RBC becomes rigid and elongated into a &#8220;sickled&#8221; shape. Sickled RBCs do not flow properly in the bloodstream; they clog small blood vessels and reduce blood flow to the organs. This results in inadequate oxygen delivery, or hypoxia, to all body tissues, which can lead to multi-organ failure and premature death. 

The following graphic illustrates the process by which sickling occurs in SCD patients as a result of the polymerization of deoxygenated HbS in an RBC, leading to occluded blood flow, in contrast to a normal RBC: 

SCD manifests in individuals who inherit at least one HbS gene from a parent and an additional mutation on the second beta globin gene from the other parent. There are several different genotypes of SCD, including the following major genotypes: 

&#8226; 

HbSS, or sickle cell anemia, where both genes are HbS; 

&#8226; 

HbSC, where one gene is HbS, and the other is HbC; and 

&#8226; 

HbS/&#223;thal, where one gene is HbS, and the other is Beta thalassemia. 

Market Opportunity in SCD 

The CDC estimates the prevalence of SCD at 90,000 to 100,000 individuals in the United States. The incidence of SCD is estimated at approximately 1 in 2,000 to 2,500 newborns in the United States. It is estimated that the prevalence of SCD in Europe is approximately 60,000. The global incidence of SCD is estimated to be 250,000 to 300,000 births annually. SCD is concentrated in populations of African, Middle Eastern and South Asian descent. 

SCD is a standard part of mandatory newborn screening in the United States. Of SCD patients in the United States, approximately 45% are under the age of 18, and approximately 60% to 65% have the HbSS genotype, which is often referred to as sickle cell anemia, with the remaining 35% to 40% having other genotypes. In all genotypes of SCD, the mechanism that leads to the consequences of the disease involves the polymerization of HbS in its deoxygenated state, which results in RBC sickling. We believe that because of this common mechanism, GBT440 may show activity across all SCD genotypes, although all of the subjects studied to date have involved the HbSS genotype. 

SCD is associated with high treatment costs. One study estimated that in the United States, the average annual cost for the care of an adult HbSS SCD patient exceeds $200,000 and the cumulative lifetime cost exceeds $8.0 million over an assumed 50-year lifespan, driven primarily by hospital admissions, physician fees, clinic and emergency department visits and the costs of diagnostic procedures and outpatient consultations. As a result, we believe that a safe and effective oral treatment for SCD would be well received by patients, physicians and payors. 

Current Treatment Options and Their Limitations 

SCD remains a significant unmet medical need. HU, which was initially approved as a chemotherapy drug, was approved by the FDA in 1998 for the treatment of sickle cell anemia in adults with 3 or more painful crises per year. HU is the only therapeutic approved for SCD, and there is no approved therapeutic for SCD in pediatric patients in the United States. The use of HU is significantly limited by its side effect profile, variable patient responses and concerns of long-term toxicity. HU&#8217;s side effects include impairment of fertility and the suppression of white blood cells (neutropenia) and platelets (thrombocytopenia), which place patients at risk for infection and bleeding. 

In addition to HU treatment, transfusions with normal blood are an option to help alleviate anemia, which is a common symptom of SCD, and reduce sickling of RBCs. Blood transfusions, however, have a number of limitations, including the expense of treatment, lack of uniform accessibility and risks ranging from allergic reactions to serious complications such as blood-borne infection and iron overload, which can cause organ damage. The only potentially curative treatment currently available for SCD patients is bone marrow transplantation, which requires a suitable matching donor and carries significant 

risks, including an approximately 5% mortality rate. Despite the current standard of care, including HU, blood transfusion and palliative therapy for acute pain attacks, patients with SCD continue to suffer serious morbidity and premature mortality. 

In light of the devastating effects of SCD on patients and the high costs of care for these patients, there is a significant unmet need for a treatment that: 

&#8226; 

inhibits abnormal hemoglobin polymer formation, the underlying mechanism of RBC sickling; 

&#8226; 

stops inappropriate RBC destruction and improves blood flow and oxygen delivery to tissues; 

&#8226; 

prevents or reduces the episodes or crises of severe pain associated with SCD; 

&#8226; 

modifies the long-term course of the disease; 

&#8226; 

is effective in all SCD genotypes, and in both children and adults; 

&#8226; 

has a more favorable side effect profile than currently available therapies; and 

&#8226; 

is available as a convenient, oral therapy. 

Overview of Hemoglobin Biology and GBT440&#8217;s Mechanism of Action 

As described above, hemoglobin accomplishes its diametric function of transporting oxygen from the lungs to the body&#8217;s tissues and returning carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs by changing its shape to be high affinity for oxygen in the lungs, where oxygen is abundant, and low affinity for oxygen in the tissues, where oxygen must be released. An important tool for assessing how readily hemoglobin acquires and binds oxygen in the lungs and releases oxygen into the tissues is the oxygen equilibrium curve, or OEC. The OEC represents the proportion of oxyhemoglobin, measured as the percentage of oxygen saturation (O2 % saturation) on the vertical axis relative to the amount of oxygen dissolved in blood, indicated as the oxygen tension, or partial pressure of oxygen (pO2) measured in millimeters of mercury (mmHg), on the horizontal axis. 

We have demonstrated in preclinical models that our novel hemoglobin modifiers, including GBT440, bind to hemoglobin, resulting in increased oxygen affinity. The effect of these compounds on the measured OEC is a shift of the curve to the left on the horizontal axis, as shown in the graph below. In other words, at a given prevailing oxygen tension in the blood, we have observed a higher percentage of oxygen saturation, or a higher proportion of oxyhemoglobin in the blood, following the administration of GBT440. 

In various studies of SCD, scientists have demonstrated that hemoglobin in the oxygenated state is a potent inhibitor of HbS polymerization. Since HbS polymerization occurs in the deoxygenated state, we believe that increasing the proportion of oxyhemoglobin, or &#8220;left-shifting&#8221; the OEC, could potentially delay the polymerization of HbS and prevent the sickling of RBCs, which may be able to ameliorate many, if not all, of the clinical manifestations of this disease. Importantly, we are able to measure the proportion of hemoglobin modification (%HbMOD), which is expressed as the percentage of hemoglobin molecules occupied or bound by GBT440. 

HbF, which is present during fetal development and persists for up to six to nine months in infants until it is replaced by adult hemoglobin, has an inherent high affinity for oxygen, which is critical for a developing fetus to capture oxygen from the mother&#8217;s blood. Newborns with SCD do not experience RBC sickling until approximately six to nine months of age, after which HbF is no longer expressed. Additionally, it has been observed that rare individuals who have inherited the HbS mutation and a gene deletion that allows them to continue to express 10% to 30% HbF in their RBCs into adulthood do not exhibit the clinical manifestations of SCD, despite expressing up to 90% HbS in their blood. HbF dilutes the concentration of deoxygenated HbS that can participate in polymerization, and thereby prevents hemoglobin polymer from forming. 

Based on these observations, we believe that to delay polymerization of HbS, GBT440 would need to bind to only approximately 10-30% of the total hemoglobin in a patient&#8217;s blood. One theoretical concern with increasing the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen, however, is that excessive oxygen affinity could prevent hemoglobin from releasing oxygen into the tissues, thus causing hypoxia. Based on HbF data, our animal toxicology studies, and our ongoing clinical trial, we believe our target modification of the total hemoglobin in a patient's blood would not adversely compromise oxygen delivery to the tissues. 

Ongoing Phase 1/2 Clinical Trial of GBT440 

In December 2014, we initiated our first clinical trial of GBT440, a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, single and multiple ascending dose study in which we are evaluating the safety, tolerability, PK and PD of GBT440 in both healthy subjects and subjects with SCD. We refer to this trial as study GBT440-001. The trial is currently being conducted at Guy&#8217;s Hospital in London, United Kingdom, and is designed to enroll between 96 and 128 subjects, randomized 6:2 (GBT440:placebo) in approximately 15 cohorts. The study is being conducted in three parts: Part A (single dose administration), Part B (multiple dose administration, daily for 15 days in healthy subjects and 28 days in SCD subjects), and Part C (multiple dose administration, daily for 90 days in SCD subjects). We also intend to evaluate exploratory markers of SCD activity, including anti-hemolytic effects, and SCD-related clinical effects. We are evaluating GBT440&#8217;s ability to prevent the hemolysis or destruction of RBCs in SCD subjects by measuring the blood levels of bilirubin and LDH, as well as reticulocyte counts. Bilirubin and LDH are released when RBCs undergo hemolysis, and reticulocytes are young RBCs that are released by the bone marrow in response to the ongoing hemolysis; thus we believe that lower levels of bilirubin and LDH and reduced reticulocyte counts represent potential markers for decreased hemolysis. We believe that findings of anti-sickling activity may translate into an improvement in anemia and may indicate a decrease in RBC damage and an improvement in RBC function which could lead to a reduction in or prevention of the downstream effects such as pain episodes, leg ulcers and organ damage associated with RBC sickling in SCD patients. We anticipate that some of the data generated in this Phase 1/2 clinical trial could be used to support early proof-of-concept regarding the anti-sickling and clinical benefit of GBT440 in SCD patients. 

We reported initial results from our Phase 1/2 clinical trial at the American Society of Hematology meeting in December 2015, which are detailed below. Based on the November 20, 2015 data cut, we have dosed 48 subjects in Part A single dose administration cohorts: 40 healthy volunteers (30 of whom received GBT440 and ten of whom received placebo) and eight SCD subjects (six of whom received GBT440 and two of whom received placebo). Additionally, in Part B multiple dose administration cohorts, we have dosed 59 subjects, comprised of 24 healthy volunteers (18 of whom received GBT440 and six of whom received placebo) and 35 SCD subjects (26 of whom received GBT440 and 9 of whom received placebo). All 24 healthy volunteers (in 3 dose cohorts) have completed 15-day dosing (18 of whom received GBT440 and 6 of whom received placebo). In 35 SCD subjects, three GBT440 dose levels have been administered for 28 days: 16 of 16 planned subjects have received 700 mg (12 of whom received GBT440 and 4 of whom received placebo); 14 of 16 subjects have received 500 mg (10 of whom received GBT440 and 4 of whom received placebo) and 5 of 8 subjects have received 1000 mg (enrollment is ongoing with the treatment assignment blinded as of November 20, 2015). We initiated the first cohort in the Part C 90-day dose administration in SCD subjects in December 2015. 

Overall, the most commonly reported adverse events, or AEs, across SCD subjects included headache, back pain, pain, rhinitis, fatigue and sickle cell crisis (this includes both SCD subjects receiving GBT440 and those receiving placebo, as the treatment assignments for all subjects were blinded as of the data cutoff). To date, no drug-related serious adverse events, or SAEs, have been reported. No SAEs were reported in the single dose cohorts or in healthy subjects who received multiple doses of GBT440. A total of five SAEs were reported in SCD subjects in the multiple dose cohorts. All of the reported SAEs occurred after completion of the treatment period (during follow-up) and were considered by the investigator to be unrelated or unlikely to be related to the study drug, and all were consistent with SCD (sickle cell anemia with crisis or infection with hemolysis). One of these SAEs involving a sickle cell crisis requiring hospitalization was reported in a placebo subject; the treatment assignment was unblinded by the principal investigator. 

No subject in the single dose cohorts discontinued the study drug due to an AE. Adverse events leading to dose modification in the multiple dose cohorts included two healthy subjects who discontinued study drug due to AEs; one healthy subject discontinued the study drug on Day 12 due to an AE (Grade 1/mild generalized rash) and one healthy subject discontinued study drug on Day 7 due to a Grade 2/moderate headache; the events in both subjects resolved without treatment. Additionally, one subject each in the 700 mg cohort and 500 mg cohort had dose reductions. Specifically, for the subject in the 700 mg cohort, GBT440 or placebo was reduced on Day 11 due to AEs of Grade 1 nausea and stomach ache, which were considered possibly related to the study drug. For the subject in 500 mg cohort, GBT440 or placebo was reduced on Day 10 (after one day of dose interruption) and again on Day 17, in both cases in accordance with protocol-defined criteria for dose reduction due to a rapid rise in Hb (Hb increase of approximately 2 g/dL over approximately 7 days). The subject had no associated AEs, or signs or symptoms of blood hyperviscosity, but in fact had decreasing reticulocyte counts and erythropoietin levels consistent with improved oxygen delivery to tissues. No subjects with SCD discontinued study drug due to an AE. 

We have observed no AEs related to tissue hypoxia, renal, liver or immune functions. We observed a mild transient rash in a healthy subject in our open-label, non-randomized clinical pharmacology study, which we refer to as study GBT440-002, studying the absorption, metabolism and elimination of GBT440. In this study, subjects receive a loading dose of 2000 mg of GBT440 (Day 1), followed by 400 mg daily for four days (Days 2-5, with radiolabelled dosing on Day 5). The healthy volunteer subject developed a mildly pruritic, papular rash on the neck and extremities on Day 2 of dosing, which was not associated with any systemic findings. Due to rapid improvement by the next day, the subject continued dosing. The rash has resolved, and the subject completed all doses of GBT440 in study GBT440-002. 

The pharmacokinetic data from SCD subjects shows a dose proportional increase in GBT440 exposure following single and multiple dosing. The half life is approximately three days in healthy subjects and approximately 1.6 days in SCD subjects. The shorter half life in SCD subjects may be due to higher RBC turnover in SCD. 

Among the SCD subjects who received multiple doses of GBT440 (700 mg or 500 mg once a day) in study GBT440-001, improvement in hemolytic parameters and tissue oxygenation as evidenced by declines in unconjugated bilirubin, LDH, reticulocyte counts, and erythropoietin levels, improvements in anemia as evidenced by an increase in hemoglobin (Hb) levels, as well as a marked reduction in sickled RBCs in the peripheral blood, were observed from baseline (Day -1) to Day 28 (Figure 1). 

&#32;The data showed that from baseline to Day 28: 

&#8226; 

Markers of hemolysis decreased with GBT440 treatment, including unconjugated bilirubin (median decrease of 31% and 43% with GBT440 at 500 mg and 700 mg, respectively, compared with an increase of 2% in placebo) and LDH (median decrease of 20% and 12% with GBT440 500 and 700 mg, respectively, compared with a decrease of 7% with placebo). 

&#8226; 

The median hemoglobin concentration increased rapidly with GBT440 treatment, with increases evident by Day 4, and absolute increases of 0.5 and 0.7 g/dL (500 mg and 700 mg, respectively) compared with a 0.1 g/dL decrease with placebo. 

&#8226; 

The median reticulocyte count decreased by 31% and 37% (500 mg and 700 mg, respectively) with GBT440 compared with a 7% increase with placebo, indicating that the hemoglobin rise is due to decreased red blood cell destruction (hemolysis). Median erythropoietin levels decreased by 9 and 18 mU/mL (500 mg and 700 mg, respectively) with GBT440 treatment compared with an increase of 28 mU/mL with placebo. 

&#8226; 

Median sickle cell counts decreased by 56% and 46% (500 mg and 700 mg, respectively) with GBT440 treatment as compared with a 14% increase with placebo. Consistent with previously reported experience, our emerging data showed high inter- and intra-subject variability in circulating sickle cell counts. 

&#8226; 

Inflammatory soluble adhesion molecules for the 700 mg dose cohort showed promising trends in improvement including P-Selectin (median decrease of 19% compared with increase of 20% in placebo) and ICAM-1 (median decrease of 6% compared with increase of 33% in placebo). Data for the 500 mg dose cohort has not yet been analyzed. A reduction in inflammation with GBT440 treatment is consistent with a reduction in red blood cell damage and downstream endothelial injury. 

Figure 1: Peripheral Blood Smear of a GBT440-Treated Subject at Baseline (Day -1) and Day 28 

Representative images from GBT440 treated subject 

Day -1 

&#160; 

Day 28 (GBT440 700 mg) 

&#160; 

While these data are early, we are encouraged by the expanding clinical evidence demonstrating that GBT440 was well tolerated over 28 days of dosing and that GBT440 improves hemolytic anemia, reduces red blood cell damage, reduces inflammation, and improves oxygen delivery. While the exact cause is currently under investigation, we believe that the decline in hemoglobin after Day 22 reflects multiple factors including variability, blood drawing, and the bone marrow resetting from previous decades of hemolysis due to potential improvement in RBC lifespan with GBT440. We believe that longer term 

treatment (90 days) will be informative. Overall, we believe these data continue to support the potential for GBT440 to serve as a disease-modifying therapy for SCD. We are currently enrolling SCD subjects in additional cohorts: 1000 mg for 28 days and 700 mg for 90 days to corroborate our initial clinical findings. In addition, we plan to evaluate one additional cohort in eight SCD subjects (six active, two placebo) with Hb sickle cell (HbSC) or HbS/&#946; thalassemia, to further understand the role of GBT440 in these SCD genotypes. We expect to receive data from these additional subjects in the second half of 2016. In addition, we anticipate to initiate a PK study in pediatric subjects with SCD in the first half of 2016. 

Subsequent Clinical and Regulatory Path for GBT440 

Subject to additional data from one or more of the multiple dose cohorts of our Phase 1/2 clinical trial in SCD subjects, we intend to engage in discussions with U.S. and European regulatory authorities to define the future development plan for GBT440. The objectives of these regulatory interactions will include discussion of study design for additional clinical trials, trial endpoints and the development of GBT440 in other patient populations, including pediatrics. 

We believe GBT440 may hold significant potential for SCD patients and could become the first mechanism-based and disease-modifying therapeutic for this grievous disease. In 2015, the FDA granted Fast Track Designation status and Orphan Drug Designation status for GBT440 for the treatment of SCD. 

Evaluation of GBT440 and Analogs in Hypoxemic Pulmonary Disorders 

In hypoxemic pulmonary disorders, where the lungs cannot supply adequate oxygen to the blood, we believe that hemoglobin modifiers that left-shift the OEC have the potential to enable increased oxygen uptake in the lungs, resulting in improved oxygen delivery to tissues. The primary goal in treating patients affected by these disorders is to increase hemoglobin oxygen affinity in order to transfer more oxygen into the blood to compensate for the reduced oxygen absorption associated with the underlying lung disease. Supplemental oxygen therapy is a well-established lifesaving treatment in acute and chronic hypoxemic conditions, but is associated with a number of risks, including local and systemic side effects and places a significant burden on the patients quality of life due to the demand of the delivery equipment and ultimately psycho-social decline. Accordingly, we believe a drug that improves oxygen uptake and delivery, thereby providing benefits similar to oxygen therapy without the associated risks and burden to patients, could fill a significant unmet medical need. 

We are evaluating our proprietary compounds in a variety of disorders in which hypoxemia is believed to play a key role in disease progression and adverse patient outcomes, including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, or IPF, and other chronic and acute lung disorders. Since GBT440 is intended to address the hypoxemic aspects of IPF, we believe that GBT440 could be administered potentially in combination with other therapeutics focused on slowing the rate of disease progression, such as pirfenidone and nintedanib. 

IPF is a fatal disease characterized by irreversible, progressive scarring of the lungs, which leads to their deterioration. IPF causes shortness of breath and destruction of healthy lung tissue, resulting in hypoxemia, tissue hypoxia, and ultimately organ failure. The prognosis is poor for patients with IPF, which occurs primarily in people over 50 years old, with a median survival time from diagnosis of three to five years. 

We have observed in a mouse model of hypoxia (Study 1) that oral dosing with a hemoglobin-modifying analog of GBT440 may potentially provide protection against extreme hypoxia (5% oxygen, far lower than 21% atmospheric oxygen), as shown by improvements in survival (as measured by heart rate &#60; 60 mmHg) and hypoxemia in treated animals compared to control. We believe this is based upon the compound&#8217;s effect on increased hemoglobin oxygen affinity. The results of this study are summarized in the graph below: 

Study 1: Tolerance of animals to 5% O2 hypoxia 

Based on the results of Study 1, we initiated two additional animal studies in disease models of acute (Study 2) and chronic (Study 3) lung injury, where we also observed improvements in hypoxemia and survival in animals treated with a hemoglobin-modifying analog of GBT440 compared to controls. 

In the acute lung injury model (Study 2), lipopolysaccharide, or LPS (a potent pro-inflammatory bacterial endotoxin), was used to induce lung injury. Additionally, animals were exposed to 5% O2 producing hypoxemia. In the chronic lung injury model (Study 3), bleomycin was used to induce lung injury for 14 days, resulting in increased fibrosis and hypoxemia over a period of two weeks. The animals were then treated, starting at day 8, with a GBT440 analog or control. The results of these studies are shown in the graphs below, which suggest that a hemoglobin-modifying agent such as GBT440 may improve oxygen uptake in a lung with diffuse injury characterized by acute inflammation or fibrosis. 

Study 2: Tolerance of LPS-treated animals to 5% O2 hypoxia 

Study 3: Effect of a GBT440 analog on arterial oxygen saturation levels in bleomycin-injured mice 

Based on these results and subject to our filing and the clearance of an IND or CTA, we expect to initiate a Phase 2a clinical trial of GBT440 in a hypoxemic pulmonary disorder, specifically IPF, in the first half of 2016. 

Oral Kallikrein Inhibitor in Hereditary Angioedema 

We are also engaged in the discovery of small molecules to produce an oral prophylactic therapy for HAE. HAE is a rare, genetic disorder characterized by severe and potentially life-threatening systemic inflammation that is estimated to affect approximately 6,500 people in the United States and approximately one in 50,000 people globally. HAE is caused by a deficiency in a protein called C1-INH, whose role is to prevent the uncontrolled production of kallikrein in blood plasma. Kallikrein is an enzyme in blood that generates bradykinin, which in turn directly stimulates blood vessel swelling, leakage and tissue inflammation. This can lead to excruciating pain, tissue deformation, and in some cases, airway obstruction and death. Plasma kallikrein is a clinically validated target and serves as a key component in the regulation of inflammation and contact activation pathways. Kallikrein&#8217;s role in HAE is well established, and previous studies have demonstrated that kallikrein inhibition can reverse and/or prevent angioedema attacks. 

All currently marketed therapeutics for HAE must be administered intravenously or by subcutaneous injection. As a result, we believe that the availability of a safe and effective oral prophylactic agent would have the potential to transform the treatment paradigm for this disease. We are currently conducting preclinical research to develop an orally available therapeutic that could potently and selectively inhibit plasma kallikrein for the treatment of HAE. We believe that the availability of a safe and effective oral agent targeting a validated mechanism that prevents HAE attacks would have the potential to transform the treatment paradigm for this disease. In 2015, we nominated GBT018713, a proprietary, small molecule kallikrein inhibitor, for development as an orally administered therapy intended for the prevention of HAE attacks. We plan to complete toxicology studies to enable the filing of an IND, submit an IND, and initiate a Phase 1 study for GBT018713 in 2016. 

Manufacturing 

We do not own or operate, and currently have no plans to establish, any manufacturing facilities. We currently depend on third-party contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, for all of our requirements of raw materials, drug substance and drug product for our non-clinical research and our ongoing clinical trial of GBT440. We have not entered into long-term agreements with our current CMOs. We intend to continue to rely on CMOs for later-stage development and commercialization of GBT440, as well as the development and commercialization of any other product candidates that we may identify. Although we rely on CMOs, we have personnel and third-party consultants with extensive manufacturing experience to oversee the relationships with our contract manufacturers. 

We believe the synthesis of the drug substance for GBT440 is reliable and reproducible from readily available starting materials, and the synthetic routes are amenable to large-scale production and do not require unusual equipment or handling in the manufacturing process. We have obtained an adequate supply of the drug substance for GBT440 from our CMOs to satisfy our immediate clinical and nonclinical demands. We have implemented improvements to our drug substance manufacturing process to further ensure production capacity adequate to meet future development and commercial demands. 

Drug product formulation development work for GBT440 is in progress to support both adult and pediatric patient populations. We have contracted with a third-party manufacturer capable of both formulation development and drug product manufacturing. We plan to identify a second drug product manufacturer in the future to add further capacity and redundancy to our supply chain to support late-stage development and commercialization. 

Intellectual Property 

We strive to protect the proprietary technology that we believe is important to our business, including seeking and maintaining patents and patent applications intended to cover our product candidates and compositions, their methods of use and processes for their manufacture, and any other aspects of inventions that are commercially important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. 

We plan to continue to expand our intellectual property portfolio by filing patent applications directed to compositions and methods of treatment created or identified from our ongoing development of our product candidates. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary rights protecting our commercially important technology, inventions and know-how related to our business, defend and enforce our current and future issued patents, if any, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the valid and enforceable patents and proprietary rights of third parties. We also rely on know-how, continuing technological innovation and potential in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our intellectual property portfolio. We seek to obtain domestic and international patent protection, and endeavor to promptly file patent applications for new commercially valuable inventions. 

The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies like us are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued, and patent scope can be reinterpreted by the courts after issuance. Moreover, many jurisdictions permit third parties to challenge issued patents in administrative proceedings, which may result in further narrowing or even cancellation of patent claims. We cannot predict whether the patent applications we are currently pursuing will issue as patents in any particular jurisdiction or whether the claims of any patents, if issued, will provide sufficient protection from competitors. 

Because patent applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for 18 months or potentially even longer, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain of the priority of inventions covered by pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or derivation proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine priority of invention. 

Patents 

Our patent portfolio includes three issued U.S. patents, two allowed U.S. patent applications, and several U.S. and foreign patent applications in various stages of prosecution. The issued patent (U.S. Patent No. 9,018,210) covering the composition of matter for GBT440 and analogs, which we may own jointly with and have exclusively licensed from the Regents of the University of California, or the Regents, was granted on April 28, 2015 and is currently expected to expire in 2032 absent any applicable patent term extensions. The issued U.S. patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 8,952,171 and 9,012,450), covering the composition of matter for GBT440 analogs, were granted on February 10, 2015 and April 21, 2015, respectively, and are currently expected to expire in 2033 and 2032, respectively, absent any applicable patent term extensions. We also own jointly with and have exclusively licensed from the Regents, U.S. Patent No. 9,012,450. The risks associated with joint ownership of patent rights are more fully discussed under &#8220;Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property.&#8221; The foreign patent applications covering the composition of matter for GBT440 and analogs, if issued, would in each case be expected to expire 

between 2032 and 2035, absent any applicable patent term extensions. Our patent applications fall into three major categories: (i) GBT440; (ii) GBT440 analogs and (iii) kallikrein modulators. 

GBT440 patent portfolio. Our patent portfolio relating to GBT440 is comprised of ten patent families and includes patent applications covering certain compositions of matter, methods of use and certain polymorphs related to GBT440 pending in a variety of jurisdictions, including the United States, jurisdictions under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, Argentina, and Taiwan. The issued U.S. patent (U.S. Patent No. 9,018,210) covering the composition of matter for GBT440 was granted on April 28, 2015 and is currently expected to expire in 2032, absent any applicable patent term extensions. Any patents that may issue from our other patent applications relating to GBT440 in the United States, if issued, would be expected to expire between 2032 and 2036, absent any applicable patent term extensions. Any patents that may issue from corresponding PCT and foreign patent applications, if issued, would also be expected to expire between 2032 and 2036, absent any applicable patent term extensions. Some of these pending patent applications are jointly owned by us and the Regents. 

GBT440 analogs patent portfolio. Our patent portfolio relating to GBT440 analogs is comprised of eight patent families and includes patent applications covering certain compositions of matter and methods of use for GBT440 analogs pending in a variety of jurisdictions, including the United States, jurisdictions under the PCT, Argentina and Taiwan. The two issued U.S. patents (U.S. Patent No. 8,952,171 and U.S. Patent No. 9,012,450, respectively) covering the composition of matter for GBT440 analogs are currently expected to expire in 2033 and 2032, respectively, absent any applicable patent term extensions. Any patents that may issue from the other patent applications relating to GBT440 analogs in the United States, if issued, would be expected to expire between 2032 and 2035, absent any applicable patent term extensions. Any patents that may issue from corresponding PCT and foreign patent applications, if issued, would be expected to expire between 2032 and 2035, absent any applicable patent term extensions. Some of these pending patent applications are jointly owned by us and the Regents. 

Kallikrein modulators patent portfolio. Our patent portfolio relating to kallikrein modulators is comprised of three patent families covering certain compositions of matter for kallikrein modulators pending in the United States, with potential foreign rights under the Paris Convention. Any patents that may issue from these applications, if issued, would be expected to expire between 2035 and 2036 absent any applicable patent term extensions. 

Patent term 

The base term of a U.S. patent is 20 years from the filing date of the earliest-filed non-provisional patent application from which the patent claims priority assuming that all maintenance fees are paid. The term of a U.S. patent can be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates the owner of the patent for administrative delays at the USPTO the extent of which is offset by delays by the patent owner before the USPTO in obtaining the patent. In some cases, the term of a U.S. patent is shortened by a terminal disclaimer that reduces its term to that of an earlier-expiring patent. The term of a U.S. patent may be eligible for patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Act, to account for at least some of the time the drug is under development and regulatory review after the patent is granted. With regard to a drug for which FDA approval is the first permitted marketing of the active ingredient, the Hatch-Waxman Act allows for extension of the term of one U.S. patent that includes at least one claim covering the composition of matter of an FDA-approved drug, an FDA-approved method of treatment using the drug and/or a method of manufacturing the FDA-approved drug. The extended patent term cannot exceed the shorter of five years beyond the non-extended expiration of the patent or 14 years from the date of the FDA approval of the drug. Some foreign jurisdictions, including Europe and Japan, have analogous patent term extension provisions, which allow for extension of the term of a patent that covers a drug approved by the applicable foreign regulatory agency. In the future, if our product candidates receive FDA approval, we expect to apply for patent term extension on patents, if issued, covering those products, their methods of use and/or methods of manufacture. 

Trade secrets 

In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and know-how to develop and maintain our competitive position. We typically rely on trade secrets to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. We protect trade secrets and know-how by establishing confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and contractors. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information developed or made known during the course of an individual or entities&#8217; relationship with us must be kept confidential during and after the relationship. These agreements also typically provide that all inventions resulting from work performed for us or relating to our business and conceived or completed during the period of employment or assignment, as applicable, shall be our exclusive property. In addition, we take other appropriate precautions, such as physical and technological security measures, to guard against misappropriation of our proprietary information by third parties. 

Sales and Marketing 

We intend to begin building a commercial infrastructure in the United States and Europe necessary to effectively support the commercialization of GBT440 when we believe a regulatory approval in a particular geography is likely. Because SCD is a rare disease in these geographic markets, with a concentrated prescribing audience and a small number of key opinion leaders who significantly influence the treatments prescribed for the relevant patient population, we believe that we can effectively address the market using our own targeted, specialty sales and marketing organization supported by internal sales personnel, an internal marketing group and distribution support. Additional capabilities important to the SCD and hematology marketplace include the management of key accounts such as managed care organizations, specialty pharmacies and government accounts. 

Outside of the United States and core European markets, where appropriate, we may utilize strategic partners, distributors or contract sales forces to expand the commercial availability of GBT440. In addition, we believe the other indications that we may pursue with our product candidates can also be addressed with a small, dedicated sales force. We currently do not expect that we will require large pharmaceutical partners for the commercialization of our product candidates, although we may consider partnering in certain territories or indications or for other strategic purposes. We intend to evaluate our commercialization strategy as we advance our preclinical programs in other rare disease indications. 

Competition 

The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. There are many public and private biopharmaceutical companies, universities, governmental agencies and other research organizations actively engaged in the research and development of products that may be similar to our product candidates or address similar markets. In addition, the number of companies seeking to develop and commercialize products and therapies similar to our product candidates is likely to increase. 

In the area of SCD, we expect to face competition from HU (marketed as DROXIA or Hydrea by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company as well as in generic form), which is currently the only approved therapeutic for the treatment of SCD. Several companies are also developing product candidates for chronic treatment in SCD, including Selexys Pharmaceuticals Corporation (in collaboration with Novartis AG), which is engaged in the clinical development of SelG1, an anti-P-selectin monoclonal antibody, and Baxter International Inc./Shire plc, which has completed a Phase 2 clinical trial of Bax-555, an orally available small molecule compound that is also intended to work by increasing hemoglobin oxygen affinity. We also expect to face competition from one-time therapies for SCD, including hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, gene therapy and gene editing. In particular, Bellicum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is conducting a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of BPX-501 as an adjunct T-cell therapy administered after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant in pediatric patients with orphan inherited blood disorders, and bluebird bio, Inc. is currently engaged in the clinical development of LentiGlobin BB305, which aims to treat SCD by inserting a functional human beta-globin gene into the patient&#8217;s own hematopoietic stem cells, or HSCs, ex vivo and then transplanting the modified HSCs into the patient&#8217;s bloodstream. 

In IPF, we expect to face competition from the approved therapeutics, including pirfenidone (marketed by Genentech a member of the Roche Group as Esbriet in the U.S., Canada, EU, and other markets, Shionogi as Pirespa in Japan, and in generic form in certain markets) and nintedanib, marketed by Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH in the U.S. and EU as Ofev. In addition, there are a number of agents in clinical development for IPF, that are targeting various anti-fibrotic pathways including the following in Phase 2: Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s BMS-986020, a LPA-1 receptor antagonist, Promedior/Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s PRM-151, a recombinant human pentraxin-2 protein, Sanofi&#8217;s SAR-156597, an IL-4/IL-13-targeting monoclonal antibody, AstraZeneca&#8217;s tralokinumab, an anti-IL-13 receptor monoclonal antibody, Roche/Genentech&#8217;s lebrikizumab, an anti-IL-13 monoclonal antibody, Galecto Biotech/Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s TD-139, a galectin-3 inhibitor, Biogen&#8217;s BG-00011, an integrin alpha-V/beta-6 monoclonal antibody, and FibroGen&#8217;s FG-3019, a connective tissue growth factor monoclonal antibody, and Prometic&#8217;s PBI-4050, an oral agent also targeting connective tissue growth factor. Since GBT440&#8217;s approach is to address the hypoxemic aspects of IPF, we believe that GBT440 could be administered potentially in combination with other disease modifying therapeutics such as pirfenidone and nintedanib. 

In HAE, we expect to face competition from several FDA-approved therapeutics, including Cinryze, marketed by Shire plc in the United States and Europe for the prevention of angioedema attacks in adults and adolescents; Firazyr, marketed by Shire plc in the United States, Europe and certain other geographic territories for the treatment of acute angioedema attacks in adult patients; KALBITOR, marketed by Dyax Corp. for the resolution of acute attacks in adolescent and adult HAE patients; Berinert, marketed by CSL Behring for the treatment of acute abdominal, facial or laryngeal attacks of HAE in adults and adolescents; and Ruconest, marketed by Pharming Group NV in Europe and Salix Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. in the United States for the treatment of acute angioedema attacks in adult patients. We are also aware of companies, including Dyax Corp./Shire plc and Biocryst Pharmaceuticals, Inc., that are engaged in the clinical development of other product candidates, including a kallikrein monoclonal antibody and oral kallkrein inhibitors, respectively, for the treatment of HAE patients. 

Many of our potential competitors, alone or with their strategic partners, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of product candidates, 

obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of treatments and the commercialization of those treatments. Mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. 

Government Regulation 

Government authorities in the United States at the federal, state and local level and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, marketing and export and import of drug products. Pricing of such products is also subject to regulation in many countries. Generally, before a new drug can be marketed, considerable data demonstrating its quality, safety and efficacy must be obtained, organized into a format specific to each regulatory authority, submitted for review and approved by the regulatory authority. 

U.S. drug development 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and its implementing regulations. Drugs are also subject to other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include, among other actions, the FDA&#8217;s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, untitled or warning letters, product recalls or withdrawals from the market, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement, or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. 

Our product candidates must be approved by the FDA through the New Drug Application, or NDA, process before they may be legally marketed in the United States. The process generally involves the following: 

&#8226; 

completion of extensive non-clinical studies in accordance with applicable regulations, including the FDA&#8217;s GLP regulations; 

&#8226; 

submission to the FDA of an IND application, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; 

&#8226; 

approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, or ethics committee at each clinical trial site before each trial may be initiated; 

&#8226; 

performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with applicable IND regulations, good clinical practices, or GCPs, and other clinical-trial related regulations to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational drug for each proposed indication; 

&#8226; 

submission to the FDA of an NDA, for a new drug; 

&#8226; 

a determination by the FDA within 60 days of its receipt of an NDA to accept it for filing; 

&#8226; 

satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities where the drug is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug&#8217;s identity, strength, quality and purity; 

&#8226; 

potential FDA audit of the non-clinical and/or clinical trial sites that generated the data in support of the NDA; and 

&#8226; 

FDA review and approval of the NDA, including consideration of the views of any FDA advisory committee, prior to any commercial marketing or sale of the drug in the United States. 

The non-clinical and clinical testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that any approvals for our product candidates will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. The data required to support an NDA is generated in two distinct development stages: non-clinical and clinical. The non-clinical development stage generally involves synthesizing the active component, developing the formulation and determining the manufacturing process, as well as carrying out non-human toxicology, pharmacology and drug metabolism studies in the laboratory, which support subsequent clinical testing in humans. The sponsor must submit the results of the non-clinical studies, together with 

manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, to the FDA as part of the IND. An IND is a request for authorization from the FDA to administer an investigational drug product to humans, and must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. 

The clinical stage of development involves the administration of the drug candidate to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of qualified investigators, generally physicians not employed by or under the trial sponsor&#8217;s control, in accordance with GCPs, which include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent for their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria, and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety and assess efficacy. Each protocol, and any subsequent amendments to the protocol, must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Further, each clinical trial must be reviewed and approved by an independent IRB for each institution at which the clinical trial will be conducted to ensure that the risks to individuals participating in the clinical trials are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the informed consent form that must be provided to each clinical trial subject or his or her legal representative and must monitor the clinical trial until completed. There are also requirements governing the reporting of ongoing clinical trials and completed clinical trial results to public registries. 

A sponsor who wishes to conduct a clinical trial outside the United States may, but need not, obtain FDA authorization to conduct the clinical trial under an IND. If a foreign clinical trial is not conducted under an IND, the sponsor may submit data from the clinical trial to the FDA in support of an NDA. The FDA will accept a well-designed and well-conducted foreign clinical study not conducted under an IND if the study was conducted in accordance with good clinical practice, and the FDA is able to validate the data through an onsite inspection if the agency deems necessary. 

Clinical trials 

Clinical trials are generally conducted in three sequential phases, known as Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3, and may overlap. 

&#8226; 

Phase 1 clinical trials generally involve a small number of healthy volunteers who are initially exposed to a single dose and then multiple doses of the product candidate. The primary purpose of these clinical trials is to assess the metabolism, pharmacologic action, side effect tolerability and safety of the drug. 

&#8226; 

Phase 2 clinical trials typically involve studies in disease-affected patients to determine the dose required to produce the desired benefits. At the same time, safety and further pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic information is collected, possible adverse effects and safety risks are identified and a preliminary evaluation of efficacy is conducted. 

&#8226; 

Phase 3 clinical trials generally involve large numbers of patients at multiple sites and are designed to provide the data necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of the product for its intended use, its safety in use, and to establish the overall benefit/risk relationship of the product and provide an adequate basis for product approval. Phase 3 clinical trials may include comparisons with placebo and/or other comparator treatments. The duration of treatment is often extended to mimic the actual use of a product during marketing. 

Post-approval trials, sometimes referred to as Phase 4 clinical trials, may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These trials are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. In certain instances, FDA may mandate the performance of Phase 4 clinical trials as a condition of approval of an NDA. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials, among other information, must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and written IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA and the investigators for serious and unexpected suspected adverse events, findings from other studies suggesting a significant risk to humans exposed to the drug, findings from animal or in vitro testing that suggests a significant risk for human subjects, and any clinically important increase in the rate of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigator brochure. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#8217;s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. Additionally, some clinical trials are overseen by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the clinical trial sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board or committee. This group provides authorization for whether or not a trial may move forward at designated check points based on access to certain data from the trial. Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and, among other things, must include methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final drug product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested 

and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

NDA and FDA review process 

The results of non-clinical studies and of the clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including extensive manufacturing information and information on the composition of the drug and proposed labeling, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug for one or more specified indications. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a drug is safe and effective for its intended use and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with cGMP to assure and preserve the product&#8217;s identity, strength, quality and purity. FDA approval of an NDA must be obtained before a drug may be legally marketed in the United States. 

Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, as amended, each NDA must be accompanied by a user fee. The FDA adjusts the PDUFA user fees on an annual basis. According to the FDA&#8217;s fee schedule, effective through September 30, 2016, the user fee for an application requiring clinical data, such as an NDA, is approximately $2.4 million. PDUFA also imposes an annual product fee for human drugs (approximately $0.1 million) and an annual establishment fee (approximately $0.6 million) on facilities used to manufacture prescription drugs. Fee waivers or reductions are available in certain circumstances, including a waiver of the application fee for the first application filed by a small business. Additionally, an application for a product that has been designated as a drug for a rare disease or condition (referred to as an orphan drug) under section 526 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act is not subject to an application fee unless the application includes an indication for other than a rare disease or condition. GBT440 for the treatment of sickle cell disease has been granted orphan drug designation and qualifies for an orphan user fee exemption. 

The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing and may request additional information rather than accepting an NDA for filing. The FDA must make a decision on accepting an NDA for filing within 60 days of receipt. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA. Under the goals and policies agreed to by the FDA under PDUFA, the FDA has 10 months from the 60-day filing date in which to complete its initial review of a standard NDA and respond to the applicant, and six months from the 60-day filing date for an NDA designated for priority review. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates for standard and priority NDAs, and the review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA will conduct a pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facilities for the new product to determine whether they comply with cGMPs. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. The FDA may also audit data from clinical trials to ensure compliance with GCP requirements. Additionally, the FDA may refer applications for novel drug products or drug products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. The FDA will likely re-analyze the clinical trial data, which could result in extensive discussions between the FDA and the applicant during the review process. The review and evaluation of an NDA by the FDA is extensive and time consuming and may take longer than originally planned to complete, and we may not receive a timely approval, if at all. 

After the FDA evaluates an NDA, it will issue an approval letter or a Complete Response Letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A Complete Response Letter indicates that the review cycle of the application is complete and the application will not be approved in its present form. A Complete Response Letter usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the NDA identified by the FDA. The Complete Response Letter may require additional clinical data and/or an additional registrational Phase 3 clinical trial(s), and/or other significant and time-consuming requirements related to clinical trials, non-clinical studies or manufacturing. If a Complete Response Letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application. Even if such data and information is submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data obtained from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than we interpret the same data. 

Orphan drug designation 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug product intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug product available in the United States for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product. Orphan product designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan product 

designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan product designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. 

If a product that has orphan designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for seven years from the date of such approval, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan exclusivity by means of greater effectiveness, greater safety, or by providing a major contribution to patient care. Competitors, however, may receive approval of different products for the indication for which the orphan product has exclusivity or obtain approval for the same product but for a different indication than that for which the orphan product has exclusivity. Orphan product exclusivity also could block the approval of one of our products for seven years if a competitor obtains approval of the same product as defined by the FDA for the same indication we are seeking, or if our product candidate is determined to be contained within the competitor&#8217;s product for the same indication or disease. If a drug designated as an orphan product receives marketing approval for an indication broader than what is designated, it may not be entitled to orphan product exclusivity. Orphan drug status in the European Union, or EU, has similar, but not identical, requirements and benefits. 

Expedited development and review programs 

The FDA has a Fast Track program that is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new drugs that meet certain criteria. Specifically, new drugs are eligible for Fast Track designation if they are intended to treat a serious or life threatening condition and non-clinical or clinical data demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Fast Track designation applies to both the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. The sponsor of a new drug may request the FDA to designate the drug as a Fast Track product at any time during the clinical development of the product prior to receiving NDA approval. 

Any product submitted to the FDA for marketing, including under a Fast Track program, may be eligible for other types of FDA programs intended to expedite development and review, such as priority review and accelerated approval. Any product is eligible for priority review if it treats a serious or life-threatening condition and, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety and effectiveness compared to available therapies. 

The FDA will attempt to direct additional resources to the evaluation of an application for a new drug designated for priority review in an effort to facilitate the review. A product may also be eligible for accelerated approval. An investigational drug may obtain accelerated approval if it treats a serious or life-threatening condition and generally provides a meaningful advantage over available therapies and demonstrates an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, or IMM, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on IMM or other clinical benefit. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a drug receiving accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical trials. If the FDA concludes that a drug shown to be effective can be safely used only if distribution or use is restricted, it will require such post-marketing restrictions, as it deems necessary to assure safe use of the drug. 

Additionally, a drug may be eligible for designation as a breakthrough therapy if the drug is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. The benefits of breakthrough therapy designation include the same benefits as fast track designation, plus intensive guidance from FDA to ensure an efficient drug development program. Fast Track designation, priority review, accelerated approval and breakthrough designation do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process. 

Pediatric information 

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, an NDA or supplement to an NDA must contain data to assess the safety and efficacy of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of pediatric data or full or partial waivers. The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, which was signed into law on July 9, 2012, amended the FDCA to require that a sponsor who is planning to submit a marketing application for a drug that includes a new active ingredient, new indication, new dosage form, new dosing regimen or new route of administration submit an initial Pediatric Study Plan, or PSP, within sixty days of an end-of-Phase 2 meeting or, if there is no end-of-Phase 2 meeting as early as practicable before the initiation of the Phase 3 or Phase 2/3 study. The initial PSP must include an outline of the pediatric study or studies that the sponsor plans to conduct, including study objectives and design, age groups, relevant endpoints and statistical approach, or a justification for not including such detailed information, and any request for a deferral of pediatric assessments or a full or partial waiver of the requirement to provide data from pediatric studies along with supporting information. The FDA and the sponsor must reach agreement on the PSP. A sponsor can submit amendments to an 

agreed-upon initial PSP at any time if changes to the pediatric plan need to be considered based on data collected from non-clinical studies, early phase clinical trials, and/or other clinical development programs. 

Post-marketing requirements 

Following approval of a new product, a pharmaceutical company and the approved product are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, monitoring and recordkeeping activities, reporting of adverse experiences and complying with promotion and advertising requirements, which include restrictions on promoting drugs for uses or for patient populations for which the drug was not approved (known as &#8220;off-label use&#8221;), and limitations on industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities. Although physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for off-label uses, manufacturers may not market or promote such off-label uses. Prescription drug promotional materials must be submitted to the FDA in conjunction with their first use. Further, if there are any modifications to the drug, including changes in indications, labeling, or manufacturing processes or facilities, the applicant may be required to submit and obtain FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement, which may require the applicant to develop additional data or conduct additional non-clinical studies and clinical trials. 

The FDA regulations require that products be manufactured in specific approved facilities and in accordance with cGMP. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our products in accordance with cGMP regulations. These manufacturers must comply with cGMP regulations that require among other things, quality control and quality assurance, the maintenance of records and documentation, and the obligation to investigate and correct any deviations from cGMP. Drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. The discovery of violative conditions, including failure to conform to cGMP, could result in enforcement actions, and the discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA, including recall. 

Other regulatory matters 

Manufacturing, sales, promotion and other activities following product approval are also subject to regulation by numerous regulatory authorities in addition to the FDA, including, in the United States, the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, other divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services, the United States Department of Justice, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the Occupational Safety &#38; Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency and state and local governments. 

For example, in the United States, sales, marketing and scientific/educational programs must also comply with state and federal fraud and abuse laws. These laws include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which makes it illegal for any person, including a prescription drug manufacturer (or a party acting on its behalf) to knowingly and willfully solicit, receive, offer, or pay any remuneration that is intended to induce or reward referrals, including the purchase, recommendation, order, or prescription of a particular drug, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. Violations of this law are punishable by up to five years in prison, criminal fines, administrative civil money penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively the ACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and criminal healthcare fraud statutes created by the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. Moreover, the ACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act. 

Moreover, although we would not submit claims directly to payors, drug manufacturers can be held liable under the federal False Claims Act, which prohibits anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to federal programs (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for items or services, including drugs, that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. The government may deem manufacturers to have &#8220;caused&#8221; the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. In addition, our future activities relating to the reporting of wholesaler or estimated retail prices for our products, the reporting of prices used to calculate Medicaid rebate information and other information affecting federal, state, and third-party reimbursement for our products, and the sale and marketing of our products, are subject to scrutiny under this law. Penalties for a False Claims Act violation include three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false 

claim, the potential for exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, and the potential implication of various federal criminal statutes. 

Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and more recent requirements in the ACA. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. The handling of any controlled substances must comply with the U.S. Controlled Substances Act and Controlled Substances Import and Export Act. Products must meet applicable child-resistant packaging requirements under the U.S. Poison Prevention Packaging Act. Manufacturing, sales, promotion and other activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. 

The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to additional requirements and regulations, including extensive record-keeping, licensing, storage and security requirements intended to prevent the unauthorized sale of pharmaceutical products. 

The failure to comply with any of these laws or regulatory requirements subjects firms to possible legal or regulatory action. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet applicable regulatory requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of product approvals, or refusal to allow a firm to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management&#8217;s attention from the operation of our business. Prohibitions or restrictions on sales or withdrawal of future products marketed by us could materially affect our business in an adverse way. 

Changes in regulations, statutes or the interpretation of existing regulations could impact our business in the future by requiring, for example: (i) changes to our manufacturing arrangements; (ii) additions or modifications to product labeling; (iii) the recall or discontinuation of our products; or (iv) additional record-keeping requirements. If any such changes were to be imposed, they could adversely affect the operation of our business. 

U.S. patent term restoration and marketing exclusivity 

Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of the FDA approval of our drug candidates, some of our U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product&#8217;s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application, except that the review period is reduced by any time during which the applicant failed to exercise due diligence. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug is eligible for the extension and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent. The USPTO, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration. In the future, we intend to apply for restoration of patent term for one of our currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond its current expiration date, depending on the expected length of the clinical trials and other factors involved in the filing of the relevant NDA. The request for patent term extension must be filed within a very short time frame after approval of the drug by the FDA. Failure to meet this time frame negates any patent term extension available. 

Marketing exclusivity provisions under the FDCA can also delay the submission or the approval of certain marketing applications. The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to obtain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another drug based on the same active moiety, regardless of whether the drug is intended for the same indication as the original innovator drug or for another indication, where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement to one of the patents listed with the FDA by the innovator NDA holder. The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, or supplement to an existing NDA for a drug product that contains an active moiety that has been previously approved if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example for new indications, dosages or strengths of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the modification for which the drug received approval on the basis of the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the active agent for the original indication or condition of use. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA. However, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the 

non-clinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Orphan drug exclusivity, as described above, may offer a seven-year period of marketing exclusivity, except in certain circumstances. Pediatric exclusivity is another type of regulatory market exclusivity in the United States. Pediatric exclusivity, if granted, adds six months to existing exclusivity periods and patent terms. This six-month exclusivity, which runs from the end of other exclusivity protection or patent term, may be granted based on the voluntary completion of a pediatric trial in accordance with an FDA-issued &#8220;Written Request&#8221; for such a trial. The FDA issues a written request for pediatric clinical trials prior to approval of a NDA only where it determines that information relating to the use of a drug in a pediatric population, or part of the pediatric population, may produce health benefits in that population. 

European Union drug development 

In the EU, our future products may also be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. As in the United States, medicinal products can only be marketed if a marketing authorization from the competent regulatory agencies has been obtained. 

Similar to the United States, the various phases of non-clinical and clinical research in the EU are subject to significant regulatory controls. Although the EU Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC has sought to harmonize the EU clinical trials regulatory framework, setting out common rules for the control and authorization of clinical trials in the EU, the EU Member States have transposed and applied the provisions of the Directive differently. This has led to significant variations in the member state regimes. Under the current regime, before a clinical trial can be initiated it must be approved in each of the EU countries where the trial is to be conducted by two distinct bodies: the National Competent Authority, or NCA, and one or more Ethics Committees, or ECs. Under the current regime all suspected unexpected serious adverse reactions to the investigated drug that occur during the clinical trial have to be reported to the NCA and ECs of the Member State where they occurred. 

The EU clinical trials legislation is currently undergoing a revision process mainly aimed at harmonizing and streamlining the clinical trials authorization process, simplifying adverse event reporting procedures, improving the supervision of clinical trials, and increasing their transparency. 

European Union drug review and approval 

In the European Economic Area, or EEA, (which is comprised of the 27 Member States of the EU plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein), medicinal products can only be commercialized after obtaining a Marketing Authorization, or MA. There are two types of marketing authorizations: 

The Community MA is issued by the European Commission through the Centralized Procedure, based on the opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, of the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, and is valid throughout the entire territory of the EEA. The Centralized Procedure is mandatory for certain types of products, such as biotechnology medicinal products, orphan medicinal products, advanced-therapy medicines such as gene-therapy, somatic cell-therapy or tissue-engineered medicines, and medicinal products containing a new active substance indicated for the treatment of HIV, AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes, auto-immune and other immune dysfunctions, and viral diseases. The Centralized Procedure is optional for products containing a new active substance not yet authorized in the EEA, or for products that constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or which are in the interest of public health in the EU. 

National MAs, which are issued by the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA and only cover their respective territory, are available for products not falling within the mandatory scope of the Centralized Procedure. Where a product has already been authorized for marketing in a Member State of the EEA, this National MA can be recognized in another Member States through the Mutual Recognition Procedure. If the product has not received a National MA in any Member State at the time of application, it can be approved simultaneously in various Member States through the Decentralized Procedure. Under the Decentralized Procedure an identical dossier is submitted to the competent authorities of each of the Member States in which the MA is sought, one of which is selected by the applicant as the Reference Member State, or RMS. The competent authority of the RMS prepares a draft assessment report, a draft summary of the product characteristics, or SPC, and a draft of the labeling and package leaflet, which are sent to the other Member States (referred to as the Member States Concerned) for their approval. If the Member States Concerned raise no objections, based on a potential serious risk to public health, to the assessment, SPC, labeling, or packaging proposed by the RMS, the product is subsequently granted a national MA in all the Member States (i.e., in the RMS and the Member States Concerned). 

Under the above described procedures, before granting the MA, the EMA or the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA make an assessment of the risk-benefit balance of the product on the basis of scientific criteria concerning its quality, safety and efficacy. 

European Union new chemical entity exclusivity 

In the EU, new chemical entities, sometimes referred to as new active substances, qualify for eight years of data exclusivity upon marketing authorization and an additional two years of market exclusivity. The data exclusivity, if granted, prevents regulatory authorities in the EU from referencing the innovator&#8217;s data to assess a generic application for eight years, after which generic marketing authorization can be submitted, and the innovator&#8217;s data may be referenced, but not approved for two years. The overall ten-year period will be extended to a maximum of 11 years if, during the first eight years of those ten years, the marketing authorization holder obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to their authorization, are determined to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. 

European Union orphan designation and exclusivity 

In the EU, the European Commission, after reviewing the opinion of the EMA&#8217;s Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of products that are intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions affecting not more than 5 in 10,000 persons in the EU Community (or where it is unlikely that the development of the medicine would generate sufficient return to justify the investment) and for which no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention, or treatment has been authorized (or, if a method exists, the product would be a significant benefit to those affected). 

In the EU, orphan drug designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and ten years of market exclusivity is granted following medicinal product approval. This period may be reduced to six years if the orphan drug designation criteria are no longer met, including where it is shown that the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an application for marketing approval. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. 

Rest of the world regulation 

For other countries outside of the EU and the United States, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. Additionally, the clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with GCP requirements and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. 

If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. 

Reimbursement 

Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which our products will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and managed healthcare organizations. In the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for drug products exists. Accordingly, decisions regarding the extent of coverage and amount of reimbursement to be provided for any of our products will be made on a payor by payor basis. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our product candidates to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained. 

The United States government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost containment programs to limit the growth of government-paid health care costs, including price-controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products for branded prescription drugs. For example, the ACA contains provisions that may reduce the profitability of drug products through increased rebates for drugs reimbursed by Medicaid programs, extension of Medicaid rebates to Medicaid managed care plans, mandatory discounts for certain Medicare Part D beneficiaries and annual fees based on pharmaceutical companies&#8217; share of sales to federal health care programs. Adoption of general controls and measures, coupled with the tightening of restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could limit payments for pharmaceutical drugs. 

The Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to enter into and have in effect a national rebate agreement with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services as a condition for states to receive federal matching funds for the manufacturer&#8217;s outpatient drugs furnished to Medicaid patients. Effective in 2010, the ACA made several changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, including increasing pharmaceutical manufacturers&#8217; rebate liability by raising the minimum basic Medicaid rebate on most branded prescription drugs from 15.1% of average manufacturer price, or AMP, to 23.1% of average manufacturer price, or AMP, and adding a new rebate calculation for &#8220;line 

extensions&#8221; (i.e., new formulations, such as extended release formulations) of solid oral dosage forms of branded products, as well as potentially impacting their rebate liability by modifying the statutory definition of AMP. The ACA also expanded the universe of Medicaid utilization subject to drug rebates by requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay rebates on Medicaid managed care utilization as of 2010 and by expanding the population potentially eligible for Medicaid drug benefits, to be phased-in by 2014. The CMS have proposed to expand Medicaid rebate liability to the territories of the United States as well. 

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, established the Medicare Part D program to provide a voluntary prescription drug benefit to Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities that provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. While all Medicare drug plans must give at least a standard level of coverage set by Medicare, Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan will likely be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. 

For a drug product to receive federal reimbursement under the Medicaid or Medicare Part B programs or to be sold directly to U.S. government agencies, the manufacturer must extend discounts to entities eligible to participate in the 340B drug pricing program. The required 340B discount on a given product is calculated based on the AMP and Medicaid rebate amounts reported by the manufacturer. As of 2010, the ACA expanded the types of entities eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing, although, under the current state of the law, with the exception of children&#8217;s hospitals, these newly eligible entities will not be eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing on orphan drugs. In addition, as 340B drug pricing is determined based on AMP and Medicaid rebate data, the revisions to the Medicaid rebate formula and AMP definition described above could cause the required 340B discount to increase. 

As noted above, the marketability of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. An increasing emphasis on cost containment measures in the United States has increased and we expect will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

In addition, in most foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. For example, the EU provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products. Historically, products launched in the EU do not follow price structures of the United States and generally prices tend to be significantly lower. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed 55 full-time employees, including 40 in research and development and 15 general and administrative and no part-time employees, in the United States. We have never had a work stoppage, and none of our employees is represented by a labor organization or under any collective-bargaining arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

Research and Development 

Research and development expense recognized were $36.7 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2015 , $16.3 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2014 &#32;and $12.9 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2013 . 

Financial Information about Segments 

We operate in a single accounting segment &#8212; dedicated to discovering, developing and commercializing novel therapeutics to treat grievous blood-based disorders. Refer to Note 1, &#8220;Organization and Basis of Presentation&#8221; in the Notes to Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware in February 2011 and commenced operations in May 2012. Our principal executive offices are located at 400 East Jamie Court, Suite 100, South San Francisco, California 94080. Our telephone number is (650) 741-7700 and our e-mail address is investor@globalbloodtx.com. Our Internet website address is globalbloodtx.com. No portion of our website is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We completed our initial public offering, or IPO, in August 2015 , in which we sold 6,900,000 &#32;shares of common stock, at a public offering price of $20.00 per share, the net proceeds of which totaled $126.2 million , after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses incurred by us. We qualify as an &#8220;emerging growth company&#8221; as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, as amended, or the JOBS Act. As an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of specified reduced disclosure and other requirements that are otherwise applicable generally to public companies. We would cease to be an emerging growth company on the date that is the earliest of: (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more; (ii) December 31, 2020; (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in nonconvertible debt during the previous three years; or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC. 

You are advised to read this Annual Report on Form 10-K in conjunction with other reports and documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. In particular, please read our final prospectus filed with the SEC on August 12, 2015 under Rule 424(b) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K that we may file from time to time. You may obtain copies of these reports directly from us or from the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549. In addition, the SEC maintains information for electronic filers (including Global Blood Therapeutics, Inc.) at its website at www.sec.gov. The public may obtain information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We make our periodic and current reports available on our internet website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

