 Item 1. Business. 

General 

Video Display Corporation and subsidiaries (the &#147;Company&#148;, &#147;us&#148; or &#147;we&#148;) is a provider and manufacturer of video products, components, and systems for visual display and presentation of electronic information media in a variety of requirements and environments. The Company designs, engineers, manufactures, markets, distributes and installs technologically advanced display products and systems, from basic components to turnkey systems, for government, military, aerospace, medical, industrial, and commercial organizations. The Company markets its products worldwide primarily from facilities located in the United States. Please read the comments under the caption &#147;Forward looking statements and risk factors&#148; in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Description of Principal Business 

The Company generates revenues from the manufacturing and distribution of displays and display components. The Company operates primarily in four divisions: simulation and training products, cyber secure products, Data display CRTs, and broadcast and control center products. 

Consolidated Net Sales by division for fiscal 2016 are comprised of the following: 

Simulation and Training Products (61%)

Cyber Secure Products (19%) 

Data Display CRTs (17%) 

Broadcast and Control Center Products (3%) 

A more detailed discussion of sales by category of product is included under the section entitled &#147;Principal Products by Division.&#148; 

The Company&#146;s manufacturing and distribution facilities are located in Kentucky, Georgia and Florida. 

The Company continues to explore opportunities to expand its product offerings in the display industry. The Company anticipates that this expansion will be achieved by adding new products or by acquiring existing companies that would enhance the Company&#146;s position in the display industry. Management continually evaluates product trends externally in the industry and internally in the divisions in which the Company operates. During the last two years, the Company expended research and development funds (approximately $0.2 million in fiscal 2016 and $0.1 million in fiscal 2015) in high-resolution projection displays and active matrix liquid crystal display (&#147;AMLCD&#148;) technologies, for commercial and military applications. 

Segment Information 

We operate and manage our business as one segment. The four divisions have similarities such as the types of products and markets served. Therefore, we believe they meet the criteria for aggregation under the applicable authoritative guidance and, as such, are reported as one segment within the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Principal Products by Division 

Simulation and Training Products 

The Company&#146;s simulation and training products operations are conducted in Cape Canaveral, Florida&#146;s VDC Display Systems (Display Systems). 

This portion of the Company&#146;s operations, which contributed approximately 61% of fiscal 2016 consolidated net sales, involves the design, engineering, and manufacture of digital projector display units. The Company customizes these units for specific applications, including ruggedization for military uses or size reduction due to space limitations in industrial and medical applications. Because of the Company&#146;s flexible and cost efficient manufacturing, it is able to handle low volume orders that generate higher margins. 

&#160;

This portion of the Company&#146;s operations targets niche markets where competition from major multinational electronics companies tends to be lower. The prime customers for these products include defense, security, training, and simulation areas of the United States of America (U.S.) and foreign militaries as well as the major defense contractors such as the Boeing Company, L-3 Communications Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, and others. Flight simulator displays are produced to provide a full range of flight training simulations for military and commercial applications. 

Cyber Secure Products 

The Company acquired the AYON Cyber Security (&#147;ACS&#148;) division in March 2012. ACS was formerly known as Hetra Products and most recently as StingRay56 before becoming part of Video Display Corporation . ACS specializes in advanced TEMPEST technology, also known as Emanation Security (EMSEC), products and custom engineering solutions to include extreme environmental performance and survivability technologies (MIL-STD-810 and DO-160) in support of military forces, intelligence agencies, prime contractors and niche commercial sectors worldwide. ACS has a long history of specializing in TEMPEST technology. In addition to its TEMPEST products and services, the business also provides various contract services to government agencies and prime contractors. Services performed include design and testing solutions for defense and niche commercial uses worldwide. ACS has offices in the U.S. and Canada, a Reseller Relationship/Partner in Europe and technology partners around the globe. This division represented approximately 19% of fiscal 2016 consolidated net sales. 

Data Display CRTs 

Since its organization in 1975, the Company has been engaged in the distribution and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of Cathode ray tubes (CRTs) using new and recycled CRT glass bulbs, primarily in the replacement market, for use in data display screens, including computer terminal monitors, medical monitoring equipment and various other data display applications and in television sets. 

The Company&#146;s Tucker, Georgia location is the Company&#146;s primary distribution point for data display CRTs purchased from outside sources. 

The Company also distributes new CRTs and other electronic tubes purchased from OEMs. The Company sells CRTs into the replacement market which sometimes takes five to seven years to develop; these purchased inventories sometimes do not sell as quickly as other inventories. Bulk CRT purchases have declined over the past few years as the Company is managing current inventory levels against the anticipated reduction in future CRT demand due to the growth of flat panel technology. 

The Company maintains an internal sales organization to sell directly to OEMs and their service organizations. 

In addition to factors affecting the overall market for such products, the Company&#146;s sales volume in the CRT replacement markets is dependent upon the Company&#146;s ability to provide prompt response to customers&#146; orders, while maintaining quality control and competitive pricing. The Data Display division represented approximately 17% of fiscal 2016 consolidated net sales. 

Broadcast and Control Center Products 

The Company began a start-up operation in July 2011, AYON Visual Solutions, as the North American distributor of a German company, eyevis GmbH. The division sells high-end visual display products for use in video walls and command and control centers. 

The division has been built thus far by partnering with consultants and system integrators. These partners have first-hand knowledge of the needs of the market and have been educated about the division&#146;s products. Management believes the division will continue to grow by expanding their network of partners and product offerings as eyevis GmbH introduces new products. This division represented approximately 3% of fiscal 2016 consolidated net sales. 

&#160;

Patents and Trademarks 

The Company holds patents with respect to certain products and services. The Company also sells products under various trademarks and trade names. The Company believes that success in its industry primarily will be dependent upon incorporating emerging technology into new product line introductions, frequent product enhancements, and customer support and service. 

Seasonal Variations in Business 

Historically, there has not been seasonal variability in the Company&#146;s business. 

Working Capital Practices 

Currently, the only outstanding debt of the Company is $0.2 million secured by a building owned by its subsidiary, Teltron Technologies, Inc. in Birdsboro, PA. 

The Company is currently operating using cash from operations and investing activities. The Company has a $4.9 million working capital balance at February 29, 2016, including $0.6 million in liquid assets. 

Management has implemented a plan to improve the liquidity of the Company. The Company has been implementing a plan to increase revenues at all the divisions, each structured to the particular division with an increase in the current backlog and growth in revenues subsequent to February 29, 2016. The Company has a plan to reduce expenses at the divisions, as well as at the corporate location with the expectation that expenses will be decreased by more than $1.7 million per year. Management continues to explore options to monetize certain long-term assets of the business, including current negotiations to sell its Lexel Imaging subsidiary where a final sale is expected during fiscal year ending February 28, 2017. If additional and more permanent capital is required to fund the operations of the Company, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to obtain the capital on terms favorable to the Company, if at all. 

Concentration of Customers 

The Company sells to a variety of domestic and international customers on an open-unsecured account basis. These customers principally operate in the medical, military, industrial and avionics industries. The Company had direct and indirect net sales to the U.S. government, primarily the Department of Defense for training and simulation programs that comprised approximately 49% and 41% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively. Sales to foreign customers were approximately 19% and 15% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company had two customers, Lockheed Martin that comprised 35.1%, and Flight Safety that comprised 10.1% of the Company&#146;s consolidated net sales in fiscal 2016. The Company attempts to minimize credit risk by reviewing customers&#146; credit history before extending credit, and by monitoring customers&#146; credit exposure on a daily basis. The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends and other information. 

Backlog 

The Company&#146;s backlog is comprised of undelivered, firm customer orders, which are scheduled to ship within eighteen months. The Company&#146;s backlog was approximately $0.6 million at February 29, 2016 and $0.6 million at February 28, 2015. It is anticipated that more than 85% of the February 28, 2016 backlog will ship during fiscal 2017. 

Environmental Matters 

The Company&#146;s operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation, and discharge of materials into the environment. The costs of complying with environmental protection laws and regulations have not had a material adverse impact on the Company&#146;s consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flow in the past and are not expected to have a material adverse impact in the foreseeable future. 

&#160;

Research and Development 

The objectives of the Company&#146;s research and development activities are to increase efficiency and quality in its manufacturing and assembly operations and to enhance its existing product line by developing alternative product applications to existing display systems and electron optic technology. The Company includes research and development expenditures in the consolidated financial statements as a part of general and administrative costs. Research and development costs were approximately $0.2 million and $0.1 million in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 respectively. 

Employees 

As of February 29, 2016, the Company employed 121 persons on a full-time basis. Of these, 44 were employed in executive, administrative, and clerical positions, 6 were employed in sales and distribution, and 71 were employed in manufacturing operations. The Company believes its employee relations to be satisfactory. 

Competition 

The Company believes that it has a competitive advantage in the display industry due to its ability to engineer custom display solutions for a variety of industrial, military and commercial applications, its ability to provide internally produced component parts, and its manufacturing flexibility. As a result, the Company can offer more customization in the design and engineering of new products. With the operations of VDC Display Systems, AYON Visual Solutions and AYON Cyber Security, the Company believes it has become one of the leading suppliers within each of these specialty display markets. 

The Company now operates in several markets in the areas of custom electronic solutions. The Company&#146;s VDC Display Systems division specializes in projector design and video solutions, and the Company&#146;s AYON Cyber Security division specializes in making electronic devices cyber secure. The Company became the North American distributor for the German company, Eyevis GmbH, focusing on configurable visual solutions for command and control and other large format visuals in the energy, utility, transportation, industrial and security markets. 

The Company is a wholesale distributor of OEM CRTs purchased from other manufacturers and from Lexel Imaging, Inc. The Company believes it is the only company that offers complete service in replacement markets with its manufacturing and recycling capabilities. The Company&#146;s ability to compete effectively in this market is dependent upon its continued ability to respond promptly to customer orders and to offer competitive pricing. 

