 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS 

OVERVIEW

Emergent BioSolutions Inc. is a global specialty biopharmaceutical company seeking to protect and enhance life by offering specialized products to healthcare providers and governments to address medical needs and emerging public health threats.

We were incorporated in the State of Michigan in May 1998 and subsequently reorganized as a Delaware corporation in June 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "EBS." Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Professional Drive, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20879. Our telephone number is (240) 631-3200, and our website address is www.emergentbiosolutions.com.

We have two operating divisions: Biodefense and Biosciences. For financial reporting purposes, we report two business segments that correspond to these two divisions.

Biodefense

Our Biodefense division is a specialty biopharmaceutical business focused on countermeasures that address public health threats, specifically Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and Explosives, or CBRNE, threats as well as emerging infectious diseases, or EID. The U.S. government is the primary purchaser of our Biodefense products and often provides us with substantial funding for the development of our Biodefense product candidates. Our Biodefense portfolio consists of five revenue-generating products and various investigational stage product candidates.

Our Biodefense division marketed products are:

&#167; BioThrax &#174; (Anthrax Vaccine Adsorbed), the only vaccine licensed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, for the general use prophylaxis and post-exposure prophylaxis of anthrax disease; 

&#167; Anthrasil&#8482; ( Anthrax Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)) , the only polyclonal antibody therapeutic licensed by the FDA for the treatment of inhalational anthrax; 

&#167; BAT&#8482; (Botulism Antitoxin Heptavalent (A,B,C,D,E,F,G)-Equine) , the only heptavalent therapeutic licensed by the FDA for the treatment of botulinum disease; 

&#167; VIGIV (Vaccinia Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)) , the only therapeutic licensed by the FDA to address adverse events from smallpox vaccination; and 

&#167; RSDL &#174; (Reactive Skin Decontamination Lotion Kit), the only device cleared by the FDA for the removal or neutralization of chemical agents, T-2 toxin and many pesticide-related chemicals from the skin. 

Our Biodefense division investigational stage product candidates are:

&#167; NuThrax&#8482; (anthrax vaccine adsorbed with CPG 7909 adjuvant), a next generation anthrax vaccine; 

&#167; UV-4B, a novel antiviral being developed for dengue and influenza infections; 

&#167; GC-072, the lead compound in the EV-035 series of broad spectrum antibiotics, being developed for Burkholderia pseudomallei ; 

&#167; VAX161C, a recombinant pandemic influenza vaccine candidate being developed by VaxInnate, Inc. and for which we have an exclusive license agreement to manufacture and sell in the event of a surge order from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, or BARDA; 

&#167; PreviThrax&#8482; (recombinant protective antigen anthrax vaccine, purified), a next generation anthrax vaccine; and 

&#167; Other Biodefense product candidates focused on public health threats and emerging infectious diseases. 

A unique component of our Biodefense division investigational stage product portfolio is that all candidates are under an active development contract with significant funding from the U.S. government. This allows our development pipeline, along with our marketed products, to be aligned with the strategic priorities of our U.S. and allied foreign government customers.

Our Biodefense division also has programs that leverage our proven manufacturing infrastructure and expertise. We have responded to specific Task Order Requests issued by BARDA for the development and manufacture of specific countermeasures as part of our Center for Innovation in Advanced Development and Manufacturing, or CIADM, program focused on imminent public health threats, including pandemic influenza and Ebola.

Our Biodefense division also includes multiple platform technologies, including the MVAtor TM (modified vaccinia virus Ankara vector) platform technology and Emergard&#8482;, a military-grade auto-injector device designed for intramuscular self-injection of antidotes and other emergency response medical treatments that can address exposure to certain chemical agents and other similar emerging threats.

Operations that support this division include manufacturing, regulatory affairs, quality assurance, quality control, international sales and marketing, and government affairs in support of our marketed products, as well as product development and manufacturing infrastructure in support of our investigational stage product candidates.

Biosciences

Our Biosciences division is a specialty biopharmaceutical business focused on therapeutics primarily in hematology/oncology with secondary areas of focus in transplantation, infectious disease and autoimmunity. Our Biosciences portfolio consists of four revenue-generating products, all of which were acquired through our acquisition of Cangene Corporation in February 2014, as well as various investigational stage product candidates and a contract manufacturing services business.

Our Biosciences division marketed products are:

&#167; IXINITY &#174; [coagulation factor IX (recombinant)], approved by the FDA for the prevention of bleeding episodes in people with hemophilia B; 

&#167; WinRho &#174; SDF [Rh o (D) Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)], for treatment of autoimmune platelet disorder, also called immune thrombocytopenic purpura, or ITP, and, separately, for the treatment of hemolytic disease of the newborn, or HDN; 

&#167; HepaGam B &#174; [Hepatitis B Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)], for post-exposure prophylactic treatment of hepatitis-B; and 

&#167; VARIZIG &#174; [Varicella Zoster Immune Globulin (Human)], for post-exposure prophylactic treatment of varicella zoster virus, which causes chickenpox and shingles. 

Our Biosciences division investigational stage product candidates include:

&#167; otlertuzumab, a protein therapeutic being developed for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, or CLL; 

&#167; ES414, now known as MOR209/ES414, an immunotherapeutic protein being developed for metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer under our collaboration with MorphoSys AG entered into in August 2014; 

&#167; ES210, a protein therapeutic being developed for inflammation-related indications; 

&#167; 5E3, a monoclonal antibody therapeutic being developed for Alzheimer's disease; and 

&#167; Other Biosciences protein therapeutic product candidates primarily targeting immuno-oncology. 

In addition, our Biosciences division includes our ADAPTIR TM (modular protein technology) platform and our hyperimmune specialty plasma product manufacturing platform.

Operations that support this division include manufacturing, quality, regulatory affairs, medical affairs, and sales and marketing in support of our marketed products, as well as additional product development capabilities in support of our investigational stage product candidates.

For information regarding revenue, profit and loss, total assets and other information concerning our results of operations for both reporting segments for each of the last three fiscal years, please refer to our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

STRATEGY

In January 2016, we announced a new five-year (2016-2020) growth plan, following the completion of our previous three-year (2012-2015) growth plan. This new growth plan presents our strategic, operational and financial goals to be achieved by the end of 2020 and is centered on our renewed focus on medical countermeasures addressing a broad spectrum of public health threats. This growth plan outlines how we intend to drive and accelerate our continued growth through 2020. It is built on a strategy that focuses on (1) expanding our leadership position in the public health threats market; (2) developing innovative products based on our platforms and with a focus on third-party funding; (3) continuing to grow through acquisition of revenue-generating and accretive products and businesses; and, (4) continuing to deliver attractive net income growth. In executing on the growth plan, we are leveraging our core competencies; specifically, government relations and contracting; medical countermeasure development; quality manufacturing; business and product acquisitions; and, financial discipline. Successful execution of the growth plan will culminate in our having achieved specific corporate revenue, product development and profitability goals by the end of 2020.

PLANNED SPIN-OFF OF BIOSCIENCES BUSINESS

In August 2015, we announced our plan to pursue a tax-free spin-off of our Biosciences business into a separate, stand-alone publicly traded company. The spin-off is expected to create two independent public companies with distinct strategic plans, growth strategies, and operational and development priorities. The new Biosciences company, Aptevo Therapeutics Inc., or Aptevo, will focus on providing novel oncology and hematology therapeutics to meaningfully improve patients' lives.

The proposed spin-off recognizes that our two operating divisions have evolved into distinct business and investment opportunities. As a result of the spin-off, Emergent and Aptevo will each become a pure play company with a focused strategy thereby enabling each company to target investors attracted to its business profile. We will be in a better position to accelerate our growth strategy while Aptevo will be in a position to more directly invest in novel therapeutics in the highly attractive immuno-oncology field. We expect the spin-off to enhance business focus, better align resources to achieve strategic priorities, and unlock significant value for both companies.

Aptevo will consist of certain assets currently in our Biosciences division, including commercial products and development programs, and the ADAPTIR platform technology. Emergent will retain the Biodefense marketed products and development programs, platform technologies, including the hyperimmune specialty plasma product manufacturing platform, and manufacturing infrastructure, including the contract fill/finish business. We expect to provide Aptevo with a fixed cash contribution of approximately $60 million. We anticipate that additional sources of funding to support Aptevo's R&#38;D investment will include commercial product sales and partnership funding.

Following the spin-off, we will be a global specialty life sciences company focused on providing specialty products for civilian and military populations that address intentional and naturally emerging public health threats. We will be better positioned to establish ourselves as a pure play company, recognized as a leader in the public health threats and emerging infectious diseases fields; enhance our financial returns and operating margins through the elimination of Biosciences related R&#38;D, sales, marketing and G&#38;A costs; and, exercise greater flexibility in our capital allocation decisions.

RECENT ACQUISITIONS AND COLLABORATIONS

Agreements with Pharma Consult and Nemera Development

In August 2015, we announced the signing of an exclusive worldwide license agreement with Pharma Consult Ges.m.b.H of Austria to acquire rights to a military-grade auto-injector device, which we are further developing and have branded as Emergard. We also executed a global manufacturing and supply agreement for Emergard with Nemera Development S.A. We plan to supply cGMP-compliant product through global sales channels that we currently use to sell our other Biodefense products. Emergard is marketed internationally. It is not approved by the FDA and is not currently marketed in the U.S., although we intend to pursue FDA approval of products using the device.

In February 2016, we announced that Emergard was selected by the U.S. Department of Defense, or DoD, and Battelle Memorial Institute to be tested against and developed to U.S. military specifications as a platform for nerve agent antidote delivery. Development and testing of Emergard is expected to be completed in 2016 and, if successful, could lead to Emergard's future procurement for U.S. military and emergency responder use. &#160; The testing and development of Emergard will be performed under a subcontract with Battelle, which in turn has a prime contract with the DoD.

Acquisition of Unither Virology LLC

In December 2015, we acquired Unither Virology LLC (UV), a glyco-biology focused drug discovery subsidiary of United Therapeutics Corporation. Subsequent to the acquisition, UV was re-named Emergent Virology LLC. Emergent Virology's primary asset is the UVX series of glyco-biologic molecules. The lead molecule within the series, UV-4B, is being developed as a potential oral treatment for dengue and influenza infections. UV-4B is being developed under a five-year, cost plus fixed fee contract with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, or NIAID, that was awarded in 2011 with an aggregate value of up to $45 million, of which $28 million has been obligated through the execution of five out of eight options.

Collaboration with MorphoSys AG to develop MOR209/ES414

In August 2014, we entered into an agreement with MorphoSys AG to co-develop and commercialize our novel oncology immunotherapeutic protein, MOR 209/ES414, targeting prostate cancer. In December 2015, after a joint review of data from the ongoing Phase 1 dose escalation study of MOR209/ES414 in prostate cancer patients, Emergent and MorphoSys decided to adjust the dosing regimen and administration of MOR209/ES414. We plan to continue the current clinical trial under an amended protocol with recruitment to start around mid-2016. As a result of the required dosing regimen and administration change and the impact to overall development timeline and technical risk, the co-development agreement with MorphoSys was re-structured. Under the terms of the re-structured agreement, MorphoSys' cost sharing in the years 2016 to 2018 was reduced and future milestone payments payable by MorphoSys to Emergent were reduced to a total of up to $74 million. Other financial terms and the split of the commercial rights remain unchanged.

MARKETED PRODUCT PORTFOLIO

BIODEFENSE

Product 

Indication(s) 

Regulatory Approvals 

BioThrax &#174; (Anthrax Vaccine Adsorbed)

GUP - General use prophylaxis of anthrax disease; and

PEP - Post-exposure prophylaxis of anthrax disease

United States &#8211; GUP &#38; PEP

Germany - GUP

Singapore - GUP

Anthrasil (Anthrax Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human))

Treatment of toxemia associated with inhalational anthrax

United States

BAT&#8482; [(Botulism Antitoxin Heptavalent (A,B,C,D,E,F,G)-(Equine)]

Treatment of suspected or documented exposure to botulinum neurotoxin A, B, C, D, E, F or G

United States

VIGIV (Vaccinia Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)

Treatment of complications due to vaccinia vaccination

United States

Canada

RSDL &#174; (Reactive Skin Decontamination Lotion Kit)

Removal or neutralization of chemical warfare agents, T-2 toxin and many pesticide-related chemicals from the skin

United States 510(k)

United Kingdom

Australia

Canada

BIOSCIENCES

Product 

Indication(s) 

Regulatory Approvals 

IXINITY [coagulation factor IX (recombinant)]

Control and prevention of bleeding episodes and for perioperative management in adults and children, &#8805;12 years of age, with Hemophilia B.

United States

&#160;

WinRho &#174; SDF [(Rh o (D) Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)]

ITP &#8211; immune thrombocytopenic purpura

HDN &#8211; hemolytic disease of the newborn

Preventing Rh o (D) immunization in Rh o (D)(-) women [1]

Treating Rh o (D)(-) patients after transfusions with incompatible Rh o (D)(+) blood or erythrocyte products [2]

Canada &#8211; ITP, HDN

United States &#8211; ITP, HDN

Portugal &#8211; [1] and [2]

HepaGam B &#174; [Hepatitis B Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)]

Post-exposure prophylaxis for hepatitis B

Prevention of hepatitis B recurrence following liver transplantation in patients who are positive for hepatitis B surface antigen

United States

Canada

Israel

Kuwait

Turkey

VARIZIG &#174; [Varicella Zoster Immune Globulin (Human)]

Post-exposure prophylaxis for varicella (chickenpox) in high-risk patient groups, including immunocompromised children, newborns and pregnant women [1]

Prevention and reduction of severity in maternal infections within four days of exposure to Varicella zoster virus [2]

United States &#8211; [1]

Canada &#8211; [2]

BIODEFENSE DIVISION

Our Biodefense division is a specialty biopharmaceutical business focused on countermeasures that address public health threats and emerging infectious diseases. Our Biodefense portfolio consists of marketed products and investigational stage product candidates.

Marketed Products 

BioThrax &#174; (Anthrax Vaccine Adsorbed) . BioThrax is the only vaccine licensed by the FDA for the general use prophylaxis, or GUP, of anthrax disease. In November 2015, the FDA approved our supplemental Biologics License Application to expand the BioThrax label to include the post-exposure prophylaxis, or PEP, indication for BioThrax administered in combination with antimicrobial therapy. Anthrax is a potentially fatal disease caused by the spore forming bacterium, Bacillus anthracis. Inhalational anthrax is the most lethal form of anthrax. Death due to inhalational anthrax infection often occurs within 24-36 hours of the onset of advanced respiratory complications. BioThrax is administered in a GUP setting by intramuscular injection in a three-dose primary series over an initial six-month period. The vaccine is protective after completion of this three-dose primary series. After the primary series, two additional doses are given at 12 and 18 months, with booster doses annually thereafter. BioThrax is administered in a PEP setting in conjunction with recommended antibacterial drugs following suspected or confirmed Bacillus anthracis exposure. The vaccination schedule for PEP consists of three doses of BioThrax administered subcutaneously at 0, 2, and 4 weeks post-exposure combined with antimicrobial therapy. Our current contract with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, specifies that we supply up to 44.75 million doses of BioThrax into the Strategic National Stockpile, or SNS, over a five-year period ending in September 2016. The maximum amount that could be paid to us under this current contract is approximately $1.25 billion, subject to availability of funding to the CDC. As of December 31, 2015, $1.1 billion in funding has been committed, of which approximately $1.0 billion has been delivered under the contract, which represents approximately 37 million doses. To date, the principal customer for BioThrax has been the U.S. government, specifically HHS (including CDC).

We are continuing to identify and pursue opportunities to expand the market for BioThrax to include allied foreign governments, non-governmental organizations and multinational companies (including transportation, critical infrastructure services and security companies), as well as health care providers (including hospitals and clinics). In April 2014, the FDA granted Orphan Drug designation to BioThrax for the PEP indication.

Anthrasil&#8482; (Anthrax Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)) . Anthrasil is the only polyclonal antibody therapeutic licensed by the FDA for the treatment of inhalational anthrax. To date, the principal customer for Anthrasil has been the U.S. government, specifically HHS. Anthrasil is procured by BARDA for delivery to the SNS. Our current contract with BARDA is a multiple award, indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract, which also includes a development component. The contract also provides for the collection of Anthrasil specialty plasma, as well as the manufacture of such plasma into bulk drug substance, the further manufacture of bulk drug substance into finished product and delivery of finished product into the SNS over a four-year period through September 2017. The maximum amount that could be paid to us under this contract is approximately $264 million, subject to availability of funding. We have recently completed collections of human anti-anthrax plasma and continue the storage of this plasma under a task order. 

BAT &#174; &#8482; [Botulism Antitoxin Heptavalent (A,B,C,D,E,F,G)-Equine)] . BAT is the only heptavalent therapeutic licensed by the FDA for botulinum disease. BAT is comprised of purified polyclonal equine immune globulins (antibodies) directed to the seven toxins (A through G) produced by Clostridium botulinum. BAT was approved in the United States in March 2013 for the treatment of suspected or documented exposure to botulinum neurotoxin A, B, C, D, E, F or G. Simultaneous with FDA approval, BAT also received Orphan Drug designation, giving it seven years of market exclusivity in the United States until March 2020. BAT is the only botulism antitoxin available in the United States for treating naturally occurring non-infant botulism. It can be administered to patients to treat naturally occurring non-infant botulism, as well as under emergency conditions. Botulinum toxin is a nerve toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum that causes botulism, a serious paralytic illness. Naturally occurring cases are mainly seen in infants or in adults who have consumed improperly processed foods. Botulinum toxin can also be used as a bioterrorist weapon and has been identified in the United States as one of the highest priority bioterrorism threats. To date, the principal customer for BAT has been the U.S. government, specifically HHS. We are currently delivering under a $431 million contract with BARDA, which calls for delivery of up to 200,000 doses of BAT into the SNS, subject to availability of funding. In addition to domestic government sales, BAT has been sold to several foreign governments.

VIGIV [Vaccinia Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)] . &#160; VIGIV is the only therapeutic licensed by the FDA to address adverse events from smallpox vaccination. VIGIV is comprised of purified polyclonal human immune globulins (antibodies) directed to vaccinia virus, the virus that is used in the smallpox vaccine. Vaccinia is not the virus that causes smallpox, but it is similar enough to elicit a protective immune response when used as a smallpox vaccine. Individuals who are susceptible to vaccinia may develop an infection from the smallpox vaccination. These patients benefit from treatment with VIGIV. VIGIV is a therapeutic approved in the United States and in Canada for counteracting certain complications that can be associated with the smallpox vaccine. To date, the principal customer for VIGIV has been the U.S. government, specifically the supply of VIGIV to the Strategic National Stockpile under a CDC contract. Our contract with CDC includes the performance of work required to maintain FDA licensure, to collect plasma, and manufacturing. In August 2015, the CDC exercised options valued at $44 million. This contract modification increased the total contract value to approximately $80 million.

RSDL &#174; (Reactive Skin Decontamination Lotion Kit) . RSDL is the only medical device cleared by the FDA to remove or neutralize chemical warfare agents, including nerve agents, mustard gas and T-2 toxin (a myco toxin capable of being weaponized) and organophosphate based pesticides from the skin. RSDL has been cleared as a medical device by the FDA and Health Canada, has a current European Conformity (CE) mark under European Directives, and is licensed as a Therapeutic Good by Australia's Therapeutics Goods Administration. To date, the principal customers for RSDL have been agencies of the U.S. government, including the DoD, the Department of State and the National Guard. Our current contract with the DoD is a five-year indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract, including option years, that expires in June 2017. The maximum amount that could be paid to us under this contract is approximately $243 million, subject to availability of funding to DoD. In addition to domestic government sales, we have also made sales into 35 foreign countries since launch. Our current strategy is to expand the market for RSDL by expanding its uses and indications, which may include treatment of toxic industrial chemicals and removal of radioactive metal exposure. In February 2014, we expanded the indication for use against organophosphate-based pesticides. 

Product Candidates 

NuThrax&#8482; (anthrax vaccine adsorbed with CPG 7909 adjuvant) . We are developing NuThrax, an anthrax vaccine product candidate based on BioThrax combined with CPG 7909, an adjuvant that we license from Pfizer Inc., in part with funding from NIAID. We are developing NuThrax to potentially elicit a more rapid onset of immune response using fewer doses than BioThrax while still providing protective immunity in patients. In September 2010, we obtained additional funding for this product candidate through a four-year development contract with NIAID of up to $28.7 million to support further development, including: manufacturing and stability studies of Phase 2 clinical trial lots, process characterization, assay validation and clinical trial preparation. Using funds from the 2010 contract, in October 2014, we completed a Phase 2 safety, immunogenicity and dose ranging clinical trial of NuThrax in which all endpoints were successfully met, including that it may require fewer vaccine doses and shorten the recommended antibiotic (60-day) regimen for anthrax post-exposure prophylaxis. NuThrax is now positioned for a Phase 3 clinical trial. We continue to seek additional government funding for NuThrax to advance it toward FDA approval. In September 2014, we also obtained additional funding for this product through a five-year development contract with NIAID of up to $29 million to support the development of a dry formulation of NuThrax, including: manufacturing, assay development and non-clinical activities through the preparation of an Investigational New Drug application to the FDA. The dry formulation of NuThrax is intended to increase stability of the vaccine candidate at ambient and higher temperatures, with the objective of eliminating the need for cold chain during shipping and storage. In March 2015, we signed a contract with BARDA valued at $31 million to develop NuThrax for post-exposure prophylaxis of anthrax disease.

UV-4B. &#160; We are developing UV-4B, a novel antiviral targeting host alpha-glucosidases as a potential oral treatment for dengue and influenza infections. This work is being conducted under a five-year cost plus fixed fee contract with NIAID that was awarded in 2011 with an aggregate value of up to $45 million, of which $28 million has been obligated through the execution of five out of eight options. These options include a base period and options supporting non-clinical influenza testing, reprotoxicity studies, manufacturing, and Phase 1 a/b and Phase 2a trials. Completed work to date has included successful production of GMP material, a successful Phase 1a trial in which UV-4B demonstrated good safety and tolerability in humans, and studies which demonstrated UV-4B has worked against influenza in non-clinical proof of concept models. UV-4B is part of a broader iminosugar small molecule series, which includes hundreds of novel compounds. We are currently using medicinal chemistry work to explore other novel uses for these analogues as part of our broader drug discovery program.

GC-072. &#160; We are developing GC-072, a novel bacterial type II topoisomerase inhibitor, belonging to the chemical class of 4-oxoquinolizine as a potential oral and IV treatment for B. pseudomallei under a three-year, $15 million contract with the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, or DTRA. GC-072 has demonstrated protection in vivo from lethal B. pseudomallei infection when administered orally, and it shows activity not only on drug-sensitive strains, but also on those resistant to marketed antibiotics (including quinolones). EV-035 molecules have also demonstrated broad-spectrum activity against pathogens such as S. aureus, S. pneumoniae, E. faecalis, E. coli, P. aeruginosa, A. baumannii and H. influenzae , as well as several potential biodefense pathogens such as B. pseudomallei , B. anthracis, F. Tularensis, and Y. pestis .

VAX161C. &#160; In 2012, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with VaxInnate, Inc. to manufacture and sell VAX161C, a clinical stage recombinant pandemic influenza vaccine product candidate that is being developed by VaxInnate in part with funding from BARDA. VAX161C is an E. coli-expressed fusion protein product that fuses segments of the hemagluttin (HA) protein from influenza to a bacterial protein and has been shown to induce a durable immune response to the particular HA protein, thus imparting protection. VAX161C is expressed at relatively high levels and, based on preclinical data, requires relatively small amounts of protein to be efficacious.

PreviThrax&#8482; (recombinant protective antigen anthrax vaccine, purified) . &#160; We are developing PreviThrax, a recombinant protective antigen anthrax vaccine product candidate, in part with funding from BARDA. PreviThrax contains purified recombinant protective antigen, or rPA, and is formulated to induce antibodies that neutralize anthrax toxins in a manner similar to BioThrax. In response to a request from BARDA, we have identified CPG 7909 as a potential adjuvant for this product candidate and are currently finalizing a thermostable formulation to progress towards initiating a Phase 1 study.

Our Biodefense division also has programs aimed at providing solutions to the Ebola outbreak, including an MVA-Ebola vaccine candidate, anti-Ebola monoclonal antibody product candidates and an Ebola hyperimmune product candidate. In March 2015, under several agreements with the University of Oxford, GlaxoSmithKline plc, and NIAID, we manufactured an MVA-Ebola vaccine candidate, MVA EBOZ, for use in a Phase 1 clinical study in Senegal and in the UK to evaluate the safety of the vaccine as a heterologous boost to GSK's Chimp Adenovirus type 3 (ChAd3) Ebola vaccine candidate. In July 2015, we were awarded a BARDA contract valued at $19.7 million to develop and manufacture cGMP lots of three Ebola monoclonal antibodies. This contract is the first BARDA Task Order for an Ebola countermeasure awarded to Emergent under the CIADM program.

Research and Development 

Our Biodefense division is engaged in research and development and has incurred substantial expenses for these activities. These expenses generally include the cost of acquiring or inventing new technologies and products, as well as development work on new product candidates. However, to offset these expenditures, we receive significant development funding through U.S. government contracts and grants, specifically from HHS. Gross research and development expenses for the Biodefense division for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled approximately $111.7 million, $82.0 million and $62.7 million, respectively. Net research and development expenses (net of contracts, grants and collaborations revenue) for the Biodefense division for the year ended December 31, 2013 totaled approximately $9.0 million. For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, contracts, grants and collaborations revenue exceeded research and development expenses by $5.7 million and $10.4 million, respectively. See Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Research and Development Expense" for additional information regarding expenditures related to material research and development activities.

Marketing &#38; Sales 

We market and sell our Biodefense products to the U.S. government and domestic non-government organizations with a small, specialized marketing and sales group. Many of the personnel within this specialized marketing and sales group are retired military service or Department of Justice personnel, with extensive experience in the public and private sector dealing with counterterrorism and CBRNE and EID threat agent preparedness. We intend to use a similar approach to the marketing and sales of our other Biodefense product candidates that we successfully develop or acquire.

We have established a marketing and sales capability targeting sales of Biodefense products to allied foreign governments as well as non-governmental organizations. We have augmented our international efforts by engaging third-party marketing distributors and representatives to identify potential opportunities to sell our products in key international markets including Europe, the Middle East, Asia and the Pacific Rim. We anticipate engaging additional representatives as interest in countermeasures for CBRNE threats and EIDs increases.

Competition 

Our products and product candidates intended for the treatment or prevention of CBRNE threat agents and EIDs face significant competition for government funding for both development and procurement. Our products and any product or product candidate that we acquire or successfully develop and commercialize are likely to compete with currently marketed products that are in development for the same indications. Specifically, the competition for our products and product candidates includes the following:

&#167; BioThrax . Although BioThrax is the only vaccine licensed by the FDA for the prevention of anthrax disease, we face potential future competition for the supply of anthrax vaccines to the U.S. government. Various agencies of the U.S. government are providing funding to us and to our competitors for the development of alternative next generation anthrax vaccines. In addition, the United Kingdom Public Health England manufactures an anthrax vaccine for use by the United Kingdom government. Other countries may also have anthrax vaccines in development for their own internal use. 

&#167; Anthrasil . Although Anthrasil is the only polyclonal antibody therapeutic licensed by the FDA for the treatment of toxemia resulting from inhalational anthrax, GlaxoSmithKline plc has obtained FDA licensure for ABthrax&#8482; (raxibacumab), an anthrax monoclonal antibody therapeutic. Elusys Therapeutics, Inc. is developing Anthim &#174; &#8482;, an anthrax monoclonal antibody therapeutic candidate. 

&#167; BAT . Our botulinum immune globulin product is the only heptavalent therapeutic licensed by the FDA for the treatment of botulinum disease. Other companies may be in stages of developing therapies aimed at treating or preventing botulism infections, however, direct competition is currently limited. 

&#167; VIGIV . Our VIGIV is the only therapeutic licensed by the FDA to address adverse events from smallpox vaccination. Other companies may be in stages of developing therapies aimed at treating or preventing vaccinia infections; however, direct competition is currently limited. SIGA Technologies, Inc. is developing Arestvyr&#8482; an oral therapy that could potentially be used as a treatment for smallpox or vaccinia infections. SIGA is continuing clinical trials for Arestvyr. 

&#167; RSDL . In the United States, RSDL is the only FDA-cleared chemical warfare agent decontamination device for use on the skin. Internationally, various Ministries of Defense have used Fullers Earth, Dutch Powder and French Powder to absorb liquid chemical weapons. 

&#167; NuThrax and PreviThrax . PharmAthene, Inc., PaxVax Inc., Vaxin Inc., Pfenex Inc., Soligenix, Inc., Immunovaccine Inc., and NanoBio Corporation are each currently developing anthrax vaccine product candidates with funding provided by NIAID and BARDA. 

&#167; GC-072 . Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd., The Medicines Company, Rempex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cempra, Inc., Tetraphase Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Achaogen, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc and others are each currently developing broad spectrum antibiotic product candidates with funding provided by DTRA, NIAID and BARDA. 

&#167; VAX161C Pandemic Flu Vaccine . FluBlok &#174; (Protein Sciences Corporation), Pandemrix&#8482; (GlaxoSmithKline plc), Emerflu &#174; (Sanofi Pasteur Inc.) are licensed vaccines. Nanotherapeutics Inc., CSL Behring, and other companies are developing pandemic influenza vaccines that are not dependent on egg-based manufacturing. 

Customer Reliance 

Historically within our Biodefense division, we have derived substantially all of our product revenues from sales to the U.S. government, specifically HHS and DoD. We expect that this will continue for the foreseeable future. In 2015, Biodefense division product revenues were $328.9 million, consisting of $317.3 million from sales to the U.S. government and $11.6 million from international and other domestic customers. In 2014, Biodefense division product revenues were $281.8 million, consisting of $270.5 million from sales to the U.S. government and $11.3 million from international and other domestic customers. In 2013, Biodefense division product revenues were $257.9 million, consisting of $254.0 million from sales to the U.S. government and $3.9 million from international and other domestic customers. We are focused on increasing sales of our Biodefense products to the U.S. government, expanding the market for these products through growth in sales to international and other domestic customers and pursuing ongoing product enhancements.

A second significant source of revenue within our Biodefense division is our contracts, grants and collaborations revenue, which represents development funding primarily from the U.S. government, specifically HHS for our Biodefense investigational product candidates. We expect that this will continue to be a significant source of revenue for the foreseeable future. Contracts, grants and collaborations revenue was $117.4 million in 2015, $88.8 million in 2014 and $54.6 million in 2013. These revenues substantially offset our costs in developing Biodefense investigational product candidates. We are focused on continuing to secure additional development funding for our Biodefense investigational product candidates.

BIOSCIENCES DIVISION

Our Biosciences division is a specialty biopharmaceutical business focused on therapeutics primarily in hematology/oncology with secondary areas of focus in transplantation, infectious disease and autoimmunity. Our Biosciences portfolio consists of marketed products, investigational stage product candidates and contract manufacturing services.

Marketed Products 

IXINITY &#174; [coagulation factor IX (recombinant)] . IXINITY is an intravenous recombinant human coagulation factor IX therapeutic that was approved by the FDA in April 2015 for the prevention of bleeding episodes in people with hemophilia B. Hemophilia B, also known as Christmas disease, is a rare, inherited bleeding disorder. The blood of hemophilia B patients has an impaired clotting ability, which results from its substantially reduced or missing factor IX &#160; activity. People with hemophilia B require factor IX injections to restore normal blood coagulation and to prevent frequent bleeding that could otherwise result in pain, irreversible joint damage or life-threatening hemorrhages. Prophylaxis or on-demand treatment in hemophilia B typically requires multiple injections of factor IX (current therapies are either plasma-derived or recombinant products) to maintain adequate levels of clotting factor in the blood.

WinRho &#174; SDF [Rho(D) Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)] . &#160; WinRho SDF is comprised of purified polyclonal human immune globulins (antibodies) directed to Rh o (D)(+) red blood cells. As antibodies that are directed to the Rh o (D) antigen on these red blood cells, WinRho SDF can generally be referred to as an anti-D product. WinRho SDF is approved in the United States and Canada to treat an autoimmune platelet disorder called immune thrombocytopenic purpura, or ITP, a disease in which platelets are destroyed by a patient's own immune system. Because platelets are required for blood clotting, this disorder can result in uncontrolled bleeding, either spontaneously or as a result of even minor trauma. According to a study published in 2010 in the American Journal of Hematology, U.S. incidence rates of ITP are about 3.3 cases per 100,000 people per year in adults and up to 6.4 cases per 100,000 people per year in children. WinRho SDF is also approved in the United States and Canada to prevent hemolytic disease of the newborn, or HDN. HDN results from an Rho(D)(-) female giving birth to an Rho(D)(+) child.

HepaGam B &#174; [Hepatitis B Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)] . &#160; HepaGam B is a comprised of purified polyclonal human immune globulins (antibodies) that are directed to the hepatitis B surface antigen. In the United States, HepaGam B has been approved for two indications: for the prevention of Hepatitis B reinfection after liver transplantation and for use as a post-exposure prophylaxis ( i.e. , treatment following exposure to the hepatitis B virus). Hepatitis B is a chronic infection and a major global health concern. HepaGam B is the first hepatitis B immune globulin product to be licensed in the United States. for the liver transplant-related indication. HepaGam B is licensed to us from Apotex Corporation. We have ongoing royalty payment obligations to Apotex based on net sales of HepaGam B until June 2016. HepaGam B is also approved for both the post-exposure prophylaxis of hepatitis B and the post-liver transplantation indication in Canada, Israel, Kuwait and Turkey.

VARIZIG &#174; [Varicella Zoster Immune Globulin (Human)] . &#160; VARIZIG is comprised of purified polyclonal human immune globulins (antibodies) directed to the Varicella zoster virus, the disease agent that causes chickenpox and shingles. While most North American adults have developed immunity to chickenpox, certain at-risk patient populations may be susceptible to infection. VARIZIG is approved in the United States for post-exposure prophylaxis of varicella (chickenpox) in high-risk patient groups, including immunocompromised children, newborns and pregnant women. VARIZIG has orphan drug exclusivity in the United States through December 2020. In Canada, VARIZIG is approved for the prevention and reduction of severity in maternal infections within four days of exposure to Varicella zoster virus.

Product Candidates 

Our Biosciences portfolio also includes investigational product candidates, including:

otlertuzumab . otlertuzumab (formerly known as TRU-016) is a humanized anti-CD37 ADAPTIR mono-specific protein therapeutic intended for the treatment of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, or CLL. CLL is a type of cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow and is caused by B-cells within the blood and bone marrow that abnormally proliferate and die. We believe that otlertuzumab's novel properties may provide patients with improved therapeutic options and enhanced efficacy when used in combination with chemotherapy or other targeted therapeutics. We completed a Phase 2 study evaluating the combination of otlertuzumab and bendamustine (a chemotherapy agent) versus bendamustine alone in people with relapsed CLL (Study 16201). We amended our Phase 1b single-arm, open-label study evaluating the safety and efficacy of otlertuzumab in combination with rituximab, an anti-CD-20 directed biologic, to include evaluating otlertuzumab in combination with obinutuzumab in people with previously untreated CLL (Study 16009). Study 16009 was further amended to add a cohort to evaluate otlertuzumab in combination with rituximab and idelalisib. Patients began enrolling in this arm of the study mid-2015. The preliminary data showed that the combination was active and well tolerated. We continue to evaluate opportunities for this product candidate in CLL.

MOR209/ES414 . MOR209/ES414 is a targeted immunotherapeutic protein under development for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. MOR209/ES414, a biospecific protein constructed using our ADAPTIR platform technology, activates host T-cell immunity specifically against cells expressing Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen, or PSMA, an antigen commonly overexpressed on prostate cancer cells. MOR209/ES414 selectively binds to the T cell receptor on cytotoxic T cells and PSMA on tumor cells. MOR209/ES414 contains two pairs of binding domains, each targeting a unique antigen, linked to opposite ends of an immunoglobulin Fc domain to extend the half-life and enable use of a purification process typical of Ig-based molecules. In preclinical studies, MOR209/ES414 has been shown to redirect T-cell cytotoxicity towards prostate cancer cells expressing PSMA. &#160; According to the American Cancer Society, prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men in the United States. Screening, radiation, surgery and hormone ablation therapy have greatly improved the detection and treatment of early stage prostate cancer. However, the new therapies only improve life expectancy by a few months for patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.

ES210 . &#160; ES210 is a targeted cytokine therapeutic under development for ulcerative colitis. The ES210 molecule was engineered using our ADAPTIR platform technology to deliver a safer form of the immunosuppressive cytokine IL-10 to CD86-expressing antigen presenting cells. ES210 contains NIL-10, coupled to binding sites specific for CD86, linked by an immunoglobulin Fc domain to extend the half-life and enable use of a purification process typical of Ig-based molecules. The mechanism of action of ES210 results in the suppression of T-cell responses, through inhibition of antigen presentation. ES210 displays potent in vitro and in vivo blockade of T-cell proliferation in human mixed lymphocyte reactions and in a humanized graft-versus-host disease model. Antigen presenting cells play a central role in the generation and regulation of immunity; therefore, inhibiting their function represents a therapeutic opportunity to suppress immunopathological processes in autoimmune disease. This ADAPTIR molecule has potential applications in the treatment of transplant rejection as well as autoimmune and inflammatory diseases such as Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and rheumatoid arthritis.

5E3 . 5E3 is a humanized anti-amyloid beta oligomer monoclonal antibody, or mAb, under development for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. 5E3 selectively binds the toxic oligomeric form of amyloid beta through targeting a unique conformational epitope that is not present on the monomer or plaque forms. This selective profile of binding has been demonstrated in pre-clinical studies and linked to slowing progress of neurodegeneration. Currently, no disease modifying therapies are available to treat this disease. According to the Alzheimer's Association, this disease affects approximately 5.3 million Americans and is anticipated to grow to 7.1 million by 2025. The 5E3 mAb and the cSNK epitope, on which preliminary data as a vaccine candidate are available, are also being evaluated in the development of diagnostics under research grants from Brain Canada and the Canadian Institutes of Research, or CIHR.

Research and Development 

Our Biosciences division is engaged in research and development and has incurred substantial expenses for these activities. These expenses generally include the cost of acquiring or inventing new technologies and products, as well as development work on new product candidates. We pursue partnerships with various third parties to offset these expenditures. Gross research and development expenses for the Biosciences division for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled approximately $37.8 million, $60.8 million and $50.7 million, respectively. Net research and development expenses (net of contracts and grants revenue and net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests) for the Biosciences division for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled approximately $32.3 million, $42.3 million and $48.6 million, respectively. See Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Research and Development Expense" for additional information regarding expenditures related to material research and development activities.

Contract Manufacturing Services 

Within our Biosciences division, we provide contract manufacturing services to third-party customers. The majority of these services are performed at our facility located in Baltimore, Maryland. At this facility we perform pharmaceutical product development and filling services for injectable and other sterile products, as well as process design, technical transfer, manufacturing validations, laboratory support, aseptic filling, lyophilization, final packaging and accelerated and ongoing stability studies. &#160; We manufacture both vial and pre-filled syringe formats for a wide variety of drug products &#8212; small molecule and biological &#8212; in all stages of development and commercialization, including 20 licensed products, which are currently sold in more than 40 countries. This facility produces finished units of clinical and commercial drugs for a variety of customers ranging from small biopharmaceutical companies to major multinationals. &#160; The facility is an approved manufacturing facility under the regulatory regimes in the United States, Canada, Japan, Brazil, the Middle East and several countries in the European Union.

Distribution 

Our products are sold in the United States by our commercial sales force and distributed to end-users through major U.S. distributors and wholesalers, including Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and other specialty distributors. In Canada, all of our commercial products are exclusively distributed by Canadian Blood Services and H&#233;ma-Qu&#233;bec. Outside of North America, our commercial products are distributed primarily through third-party distributors.

Marketing &#38; Sales 

We have specialty biopharmaceutical commercial operations and medical affairs teams with experience in sales, marketing, distribution, reimbursement and medical support.

The commercial operations team includes a U.S.-based field sales force that focuses its selling efforts on hospitals, hematology clinics, medical oncology clinics, transplant centers and public and private hospitals. This team is also responsible for managing day-to-day relationships with third parties, including managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit managers, group purchasing organizations, wholesalers, specialty distributors and specialty pharmacies. Outside the United States, our products are sold through a network of regional independent distributors. The commercial operations team also includes a marketing team with experience in building pharmaceutical, biological and device brands across all stages of the product life cycle. Reimbursement support, patient assistance/compassionate use and non-medical customer inquiries are handled by customer service personnel within our commercial operations team.

Our medical affairs team includes field-based medical science liaisons, who respond to customer requests for information, establish and maintain company relationships with researchers and clinicians, train our product specialists and sales personnel and interface with clinical trial investigators. Our medical affairs team also supports customers by providing medical information, drug safety and pharmacovigilance services.

Competition 

Our Biosciences products, product candidates, and CMO services face significant competition. Any product or product candidate that we acquire or successfully develop and commercialize is likely to compete with currently marketed products, as well as other novel product candidates that are in development for the same indications. Specifically, the competition with respect to our products, product candidates, and CMO services includes the following:

&#167; IXINITY . Currently, five competitive products are marketed in North America: Rixubis (Baxter International Inc.), Benefix (Pfizer Inc.) and Alprolix (Biogen Idec Inc.) recombinant FIX products as well as AlphaNine (Grifols USA, LLC) and MonoNine (CSL Behring, a subsidiary of CSL Limited), which are FIX preparations derived from human plasma. We expect that Novo Nordisk Inc. and CSL Behring will also launch additional long acting recombinant factor IX agents in the future. 

&#167; WinRho SDF . &#160; In the United States, the use of WinRho SDF is primarily for the ITP indication. &#160; In the U.S. ITP market, WinRho SDF competes with Rhophlac &#174; (CSL Behring, a subsidiary of CSL Limited), Nplate &#174; (Amgen Inc.) and Promacta &#174; (GlaxoSmithKline plc). In Canada, the use of WinRho SDF is primarily for the HDN indication. WinRho SDF is the only anti-D product available for the prevention of HDN and treatment of ITP in Canada. 

&#167; HepaGam B . &#160; Two competitive products are marketed in North America: Nabi-HB &#174; (Biotest Pharmaceuticals Corporation) and HyperHEP B &#174; S/D (Grifols USA, LLC). Nabi-HB &#174; and HyperHEP B &#174; S/D are both licensed to treat acute exposure to blood containing hepatitis B surface antigen and administered via intramuscular injection. HepaGam B is currently the only intravenous hepatitis B immune globulin licensed for the liver transplantation indication in the United States and Canada. 

&#167; VARIZIG . &#160; No other currently manufactured competitive product is licensed in the North American markets. 

&#167; otlertuzumab . If approved for CLL, we anticipate that otlertuzumab would compete with, or be combined with, other B-cell depleting therapies, targeted therapies and chemotherapeutics, including: Rituxan &#174; (Genentech, Inc., a member of the Roche Group), Treanda &#174; (Cephalon, a subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.), Arzerra &#174; (GlaxoSmithKline plc and Genmab A/S), Imbruvica&#8482; (Pharmacyclics, Inc. and Johnson and Johnson), Gayzva&#8482; (Genentech USA, Inc., a member of the Roche Group) and Zydelig &#174; (Gilead Sciences, Inc.). In addition, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and ImmunoGen, Inc. are in early stage development for monoclonal antibodies directed to CD37. AbbVie Inc. is developing ABT-199, a B-cell lymphoma 2 inhibitor, for treatment of CLL in collaboration with Genentech, Inc. 

&#167; MOR209/ ES414. If approved, we anticipate that MOR209/ES414 would compete with Taxotere (Sanofi), Jevtana (Sanofi), Zytiga (Janssen), Xtandi (Astellas), Xofigo (Bayer/Algeta), Provenge (Dendreon) and potentially other products currently under development. 

&#167; ES210. If approved, we anticipate that ES210 would compete with products indicated for inflammatory bowel diseases such as ulcerative colitis, including: HUMIRA&#174; (Abbvie Inc. ) , Remicade&#174; (Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of Johnson and Johnson) and Entyvio (Takeda Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc., a subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited). Depending on what ES210 is approved for, we anticipate that it could also compete with products indicated for Moderate to Severe Crohns Disease, including: Stelara (Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of Johnson and Johnson) and Xeljanz (Pfizer Inc.). 

&#167; 5E3. The U.S. has only approved 5 drugs for Alzheimer's disease that temporarily improve symptoms (cholinesterase inhibitors: Aricept&#174;, Exelon&#174;, Razadyne&#174; and Cognex&#174; and an N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, Namenda&#174;); however, none of the treatments available today alters the underlying course of this terminal disease. To date, there are no approved therapeutics for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, but monoclonal antibodies have figured prominently in addressing this unmet clinical need. Amongst the candidates are Ponezumab (Pfizer, discontinued at PII), Bapineuzumab (Janssen/Pfizer, discontinued), Solanezumab (Eli Lilly, PIII), Crenezumab (Genentech, PII), BAN2401 (Biogen, Eisai Co., PII) and more recently Aducanumab (Biogen, PIII). What differentiates the 5E3 monoclonal antibody is the selectivity against a conformational epitope targeting neurotoxic amyloid beta oligomers, but not soluble monomers, fibrils or insoluble plaque. Acumen Pharmaceuticals is developing an amyloid-beta oligomer specific antibody, ACU-193, and claims to be about approximately one year from IND filing, but further development appears to be dependent upon partnering or financing. 

&#167; Contract Manufacturing Services Business . We compete for contract service business with several biopharmaceutical product development organizations, contract manufacturers of biopharmaceutical products and university research laboratories, including, among others: Lonza Group Ltd., OSO BioPharmaceuticals Manufacturing, LLC, Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc., Jubilant Hollister-Stier Laboratories LLC (a subsidiary of Jubilant Life Sciences Limited), Patheon Inc., Hospira Inc., Ajinomoto Althea, Inc. (a subsidiary of Ajinomoto Co., Inc.) Cook Pharmica LLC (a subsidiary of Cook Group Inc.), and Albany Molecular Research, Inc. Although many of these competitors do not offer the same range of services that we do, they can and do compete effectively against certain areas of our business, including our biopharmaceutical production capabilities. We also compete with in-house research, development and support service departments of other biopharmaceutical companies. 

MANUFACTURING

Biodefense Division 

We have a manufacturing facility, Building 12, focused on bacterial fermentation located at our 12.5 acre, multi-building campus in Lansing, Michigan. We currently manufacture BioThrax at the 100-liter scale in Building 12. To expand our existing BioThrax manufacturing capabilities, we have constructed adjacent to Building 12 a large-scale, multi-product facility, or Building 55, capable of producing BioThrax at the 1320-liter scale. In July 2010, we entered into a multi-year development contract with BARDA that provides up to $104 million of funding to support the work needed to approve the manufacturing of BioThrax in Building 55. We continue to pursue FDA approval for BioThrax at this larger production scale. In February 2015, we completed the in-life phase of a pivotal nonclinical efficacy study designed to demonstrate that BioThrax manufactured at large scale in Building 55, is comparable to the BioThrax currently manufactured in Building 12. Analysis of data shows that the primary endpoints were met. Data from this study will be used to support an expected mid-2016 submission of an sBLA to the FDA for Building 55 licensure, which we anticipate by year end 2016. Building 12 produces 8 to 10 million doses of BioThrax annually. Building 55 has the potential to increase manufacturing capacity to an estimated 20 to 25 million doses annually, on a single manufacturing train.

We also have a manufacturing facility focused on disposable manufacturing for viral and non-viral products located in Baltimore, Maryland. This facility has been designed to take advantage of single-use bioreactor technology and is capable of manufacturing several different products, including products derived from cell culture or microbial systems. In June 2012, we entered into a contract with BARDA, which established this facility as a Center for Innovation in Advanced Development and Manufacturing, or CIADM. The CIADM contract with BARDA provides us with funding for manufacturing and development activities relating to VAX161C. We envision this facility supporting future CIADM development and manufacturing activities for chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive threat countermeasures, as well as our current and future non-CIADM product development and manufacturing needs. In July 2015, we were awarded a BARDA contract valued at $19.7 million to develop and manufacture cGMP lots of three Ebola monoclonal antibodies in Chinese hamster ovary, or CHO, cell lines at a 2000 Liter scale. Under the two-year contract, we will conduct process development, analytical method development, execute small-scale production runs, and perform cGMP cell banking leading to cGMP manufacture of bulk drug substance under the CIADM program.

We also currently lease a packaging facility at The University of Southern Mississippi's Accelerator, a technology innovation and commercialization center. This facility is equipped to package RSDL. A significant portion of the doses of RSDL that we sell to domestic customers can be packaged at this facility. In August 2013, we entered into a three-year Contract Manufacturing Organization, or CMO, agreement with Bracco Diagnostics Inc., and its wholly-owned subsidiary, E-Z-EM Canada Inc. (dba Therapex), to manufacture bulk quantities of RSDL's active ingredient and to package RSDL units. RSDL's active ingredient and other raw materials are shipped to and subsequently finished and packaged at our Mississippi facility.

Biosciences Division 

We own facilities with manufacturing and other capabilities located in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. These facilities include space for plasma-derived hyperimmune therapeutics manufacturing, chromatography-based plasma fractionation, bacterial fermentation, downstream processing capability, aseptic filling, packaging and warehousing, quality assurance and control, development laboratories and office space. At these facilities, we manufacture our hyperimmune specialty plasma products, including for our Biosciences division, WinRho SDF, HepaGam B and VARIZIG, and for our Biodefense division Anthrasil, BAT and VIGIV.

We also own a manufacturing facility focused on contract manufacturing services located in Baltimore, Maryland. This site provides pharmaceutical product development and filling services for injectable and other sterile products, as well as process design, technical transfer, manufacturing validations, laboratory support, aseptic filling, lyophilization, final packaging and accelerated and ongoing stability studies. This facility is an approved manufacturing facility under the regulatory regimes in the United States, Canada, Japan, Brazil, the Middle East and several countries in the European Union. The facility includes warehousing space used for cold-storage and freezer capacity to support our Biosciences product distribution activities within the United States. This facility and its capabilities may be utilized in the future to fill and finish our development and commercial stage products, for which we currently rely on third-party fill/finish providers.

Neither of these facilities will be included with the assets that are contributed to Aptevo in the planned spin-off of our Biosciences business.

Supplies and Raw Materials 

We currently rely on contract manufacturers and other third parties to manufacture some of the supplies we require for pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, as well as supplies and raw materials used in the production of our products. Typically we acquire these supplies and raw materials on a purchase order basis and, when possible, in quantities we believe adequate to meet our needs. With respect to Alhydrogel &#174; adjuvant 2%, used to manufacture BioThrax and NuThrax, from a single-source supplier for which we have no alternative source of supply. However, we maintain stored supplies of this adjuvant sufficient to meet our expected manufacturing needs for these products. We also utilize a single-source supplier for the following other raw materials for our other product: the sponge applicator device and the active ingredient used to make RSDL and limited-source suppliers for various types of hyperimmune specialty plasmas used to manufacture our hyperimmune specialty plasma products, such as BAT, Anthrasil, VIGIV, WinRho SDF, HepaGam B and VARIZIG.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We actively seek to protect the intellectual property that arises from our activities. It is our policy to respect the intellectual property rights of others. In general and where possible, we pursue worldwide patent protection for new and innovative processes and products that we develop. The term of protection for various patents associated with and expected to be associated with our marketed products and product candidates extend for varying periods of time depending on the date of filing of the patent application or the date of patent issuance and the legal term of patents in the countries in which they are obtained. The protection afforded by a patent varies on a product-by-product basis and country-to-country basis and depends upon many factors, including the type of patent, the scope of its coverage, the availability of regulatory-related extensions, the availability of legal remedies in a particular country and the validity and enforceability of the patents. In some cases, we may decide that the best way to protect the intellectual property is to retain proprietary information as trade secrets and confidential information rather than to apply for patents, which would involve disclosure of proprietary information to the public. In other cases, we may be required to rely on trade secret protection on the basis that the subject matter is either not patentable or unlikely to be granted broad or useful claims. We take a number of measures to protect our trade secrets and confidential information, including entering into confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties. In general and where possible, we also pursue registered trademarks for our product candidates and marketed products. We are a party to a number of license agreements under which we license patents, patent applications and other intellectual property. We enter into these agreements to augment our own intellectual property and to secure freedom to operate where necessary. These agreements impose various commercial diligence and financial payment obligations on us. We expect to continue to enter into these types of license agreements in the future.

REGULATION

Regulations in the United States and other countries have a significant impact on our product development, manufacturing and marketing activities.

Government Contracting 

Our status as a U.S. government contractor means that we are subject to various statutes and regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulation, or FAR, which governs the procurement of goods and services by agencies of the U.S. government. These regulations can impose stricter penalties than those normally applicable to commercial contracts, such as criminal and civil liability and suspension and debarment from future government contracting. In addition, pursuant to various regulations, our government contracts can be subject to unilateral termination or modification by the government for convenience, detailed auditing and accounting systems requirements, statutorily controlled pricing, sourcing and subcontracting restrictions, and statutorily mandated processes for adjudicating contract disputes.

Project BioShield . The Project BioShield Act of 2004, or Project BioShield, provides expedited procedures for bioterrorism-related procurement and the awarding of research grants, making it easier for HHS to quickly commit funds to countermeasure projects. Project BioShield relaxes procedures under the FAR for procuring property or services used in performing, administering or supporting biomedical countermeasure research and development. In addition, if the Secretary of HHS deems that there is a pressing need, Project BioShield authorizes the Secretary to use an expedited award process, rather than the normal peer review process, for grants, contracts and cooperative agreements related to biomedical countermeasure research and development activity. Under Project BioShield, in limited specified circumstances, HHS can contract to purchase unapproved countermeasures for the SNS and authorize the emergency use of medical products that have not yet been approved by the FDA.

Product Development for Therapeutics 

Pre-Clinical Testing . Before beginning testing of any compounds with potential therapeutic value in human subjects in the United States, stringent government requirements for pre-clinical data must be satisfied. Pre-clinical testing includes both in vitro , or in an artificial environment outside of a living organism, and in &#160; vivo , or within a living organism, laboratory evaluation and characterization of the safety and efficacy of a drug and its formulation. We perform pre-clinical testing on all of our product candidates before we initiate any human trials.

Investigational New Drug Application . Before clinical testing may begin, the results of pre-clinical testing, together with manufacturing information, analytical data and any other available clinical data or literature, must be submitted to the FDA as part of an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND. The sponsor must also include an initial protocol detailing the first phase of the proposed clinical investigation. The &#160; pre-clinical data must provide an adequate basis for evaluating both the safety and the scientific rationale for the initial clinical studies in human &#160; volunteers. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA imposes a clinical hold within that 30-day time period.

Clinical Trials . Clinical trials involve the administration of the drug to healthy human volunteers or to patients under the supervision of a qualified physician (also called an investigator) &#160; pursuant to an FDA-reviewed protocol. Human clinical trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap &#160; with one another. Clinical trials must be conducted under protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used to monitor &#160; safety and the efficacy criteria, if any, to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND.

&#167; Phase 1 clinical trials test for safety, dose tolerance, absorption, bio-distribution, metabolism, excretion and clinical pharmacology and, if possible, for early evidence regarding efficacy. 

&#167; Phase 2 clinical trials involve a small sample of individuals with the target disease or disorder and seek to assess the efficacy of the drug for specific targeted indications to determine dose response and the optimal dose range and to gather additional information relating to safety and potential adverse effects. 

&#167; Phase 3 clinical trials consist of expanded, large-scale studies of patients with the target disease or disorder to obtain definitive statistical evidence of the efficacy and safety of the proposed product and dosing regimen. The safety and efficacy data generated from Phase 3 clinical trials typically form the basis for FDA approval of the product candidate. 

&#167; Phase 4 clinical trials are sometimes conducted after a product has been approved. These trials can be conducted for a number of purposes, including to collect long-term safety information or to collect additional data about a specific population. As part of a product approval, the FDA may require that certain Phase 4 studies, which are called post-marketing commitment studies, be conducted post-approval. 

Good Clinical Practice . All of the phases of clinical studies must be conducted in conformance with the FDA's bioresearch monitoring regulations and Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, which are ethical and scientific quality standards for conducting, recording and reporting clinical trials to assure that the data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, safety and well-being of trial participants are protected.

Animal Rule. For product candidates that are intended to treat or prevent infection from rare life-threatening diseases, conducting controlled clinical trials to determine efficacy may be unethical or unfeasible. Under regulations issued by the FDA in 2002, often referred to as "the Animal Rule," under some circumstances, approval of such product candidates can be based on clinical data from trials in healthy subjects that demonstrate adequate safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data from adequate and well-controlled animal studies. Among other requirements, the animal studies must establish that the drug or biological product is reasonably likely to produce clinical benefit in humans. Because the FDA must agree that data derived from animal studies may be extrapolated to establish safety and efficacy in humans, these studies add complexity and uncertainty to the testing and approval process. In addition, products approved under the Animal Rule are subject to additional requirements, including post-marketing study requirements, restrictions imposed on marketing or distribution or requirements to provide information to patients.

Marketing Approval &#8211; Biologics and Drugs 

Biologics License Application/New Drug Application . All data obtained from a comprehensive development program, including research and product development, manufacturing, pre-clinical and clinical trials, labeling and related information are submitted in a Biologics License Application, or BLA, to the FDA and in similar regulatory filings with the corresponding agencies in other countries for review and approval. For small molecule drugs, this information is submitted in a filing called a New Drug Application, or NDA. The submission of an application is not a guarantee that the FDA will find the application complete and accept it for filing. The FDA may refuse to file the application and request additional information rather than accept the application for filing, in which case the application must be resubmitted with the supplemental information. Once an application is accepted for filing, the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, requires the FDA to review the application within 180 days of its filing, although in practice, longer review times often occur.

In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, or PREA, BLAs, NDAs and certain supplements must contain data to assess the safety and efficacy of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of data or full or partial waivers. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any drug or biologic for an indication for which orphan designation has been granted.

In reviewing a BLA or NDA, the FDA may grant approval, deny the application if it determines the application does not provide an adequate basis for approval or again request additional information. Even if such additional information and data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the BLA or NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. The receipt of regulatory approval often takes many years, involving the expenditure of substantial financial resources. The speed with which approval is granted often depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. The FDA may also impose conditions upon approval. For example, it may require a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, for a product. This can include various required elements, such as publication of a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to educate health care providers of the drug's risks and/or restrictions on distribution and use such as limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the drug. The FDA may also significantly limit the indications approved for a given product and/or require, as a condition of approval, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, post-approval clinical trials, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, pre-approval of promotional materials or restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising, any of which could negatively impact the commercial success of a drug.

Fast Track Designation . The FDA may designate a product as a fast track drug if it is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this disease or condition. Sponsors granted a fast track designation for a drug are granted more opportunities to interact with the FDA during the approval process and are eligible for FDA review of the application on a rolling basis, before the application has been completed. The FDA has designated our following investigational product candidates for fast track status: otlertuzumab and NuThrax.

Orphan Drugs . &#160; Under the Orphan Drug Act, an applicant can request the FDA to designate a product as an ''orphan drug'' in the United States if the drug is intended to treat an orphan, or rare, disease or condition. A disease or condition is considered orphan if it affects fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. Orphan Drug designation must be requested before submitting a BLA or NDA. Products designated as orphan drugs are eligible for special grant funding for research and development, FDA assistance with the review of clinical trial protocols, potential tax credits for research, reduced filing fees for marketing applications and a special seven-year period of market exclusivity after marketing approval. Orphan drug exclusivity (afforded to the first applicant to receive approval for an orphan designated drug) prevents FDA approval of applications by others for the same drug for the designated orphan disease or condition. The FDA may approve a subsequent application from another applicant if the FDA determines that the application is for a different drug or different use, or if the FDA determines that the subsequent product is clinically superior, or that the holder of the initial orphan drug approval cannot assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the drug to meet the public's need. A grant of an orphan designation is not a guarantee that a product will be approved.

Our products with current Orphan Drug exclusivity include the following:

&#167; BioThrax for post-exposure prophylaxis of disease following suspected or confirmed B. anthracis exposure, when administered in conjunction with recommended antibacterial drugs, with exclusivity though 2022; 

&#167; Anthrasil for the treatment of toxemia associated with inhalational anthrax in adult and pediatric patients in combination with appropriate antibacterial drugs, with exclusivity through 2022; 

&#167; BAT with exclusivity through March 2020 for treatment of suspected or documented exposure to botulinum neurotoxin A, B, C, D, E, F or G; and 

&#167; VARIZIG with exclusivity through December 2019 for post-exposure prophylaxis of varicella (chickenpox) in high-risk patient groups, including immunocompromised children, newborns and pregnant women. 

Post-Approval Requirements . Any drug, biologic or medical device product for which we receive FDA approval will be subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, record keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences, providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information, product sampling and distribution requirements, current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and restrictions on advertising and promotion. Adverse &#160; events that are reported after marketing approval can result in additional limitations being placed on the product's distribution or use and, potentially, withdrawal &#160; or suspension of the product from the market. In addition, the FDA has post-approval authority to require post-approval clinical trials and/or safety labeling changes if warranted by the appearance of new safety information. In certain circumstances, the FDA may impose a REMS after a product has been approved. Facilities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA for compliance with cGMP and other laws. The FDA also closely monitors advertising and promotional materials we may disseminate for our products for compliance with restrictions on off-label promotion and other laws. We may not promote our products for conditions of use that are not included in the approved package inserts for our products. Certain additional restrictions on advertising and promotion exist for products that have so-called "black box warnings" in their approved package inserts, such as WinRho SDF.

Vaccine and Immune Globulin Product Lot Release and FDA Review . Because the manufacturing process for biological products is very complex, the FDA requires for many biologics, including most vaccines and immune globulin products, that each product lot undergo thorough testing for purity, potency, identity and sterility. Before a lot of BioThrax can be used, we must submit a sample of the vaccine lot and a lot release protocol to the FDA. The lot release protocol documents reflect the results of our tests for potency, safety, sterility, any additional assays mandated by our BLA for BioThrax and a summary of relevant manufacturing details. The FDA reviews the manufacturing and testing information provided in the lot release protocol and may elect to perform confirmatory testing on lot samples that we submit. We cannot distribute a lot of BioThrax until the FDA releases it. The length of the FDA review process depends on a number of factors, including reviewer questions, license supplement approval, reviewer availability and whether our internal testing of product samples is completed before or concurrently with FDA testing.

Marketing Approval &#8211; Medical Devices 

Medical devices are also subject to FDA clearance or approval and extensive regulation under the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. Under the FDCA, medical devices are classified into one of three classes: Class I, Class II or Class III. The classification of a device generally depends on the degree of risk associated with the medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and efficacy. RSDL is regulated as a Class II medical device.

&#167; Class I devices are those for which safety and efficacy can be assured by adherence to a set of general controls. These general controls include compliance with the applicable portions of the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which sets forth requirements for manufacturing practices, record keeping, reporting of adverse medical events, labeling and promotion only for cleared or approved intended uses. 

&#167; Class II devices are also subject to these general controls and to any other special controls as deemed necessary by the FDA to ensure the safety and efficacy of the device. Review and clearance by the FDA for these devices is typically accomplished through the so-called 510(k) pre-market notification procedure. When 510(k) clearance is sought, a sponsor must submit a pre-market notification demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a device approved by the FDA after May 28, 1976. This previously-approved device is called the predicate device. If the FDA agrees that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to the predicate device, then 510(k) clearance to market will be granted. After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require pre-market approval. &#160; If a proposed device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device that was approved prior to May 28, 1976, the proposed device is approved based on a pre-amendment and is approved as an unclassified device. 

&#167; A Class III device requires approval of a pre-market application, or PMA, which is an expensive, lengthy and uncertain process requiring many years to complete. Clinical trials are almost always required to support a PMA and are sometimes required for a 510(k) pre-market notification. These trials generally require submission of an application for an investigational device exemption, or IDE. An IDE must be supported by pre-clinical data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, which show that the device is safe to test in humans and that the study protocols are scientifically sound. The IDE must be approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients, unless the product is deemed a non-significant risk device and is eligible for more abbreviated investigational device exemption requirements. 

Both before and after a medical device is commercially distributed, manufacturers and marketers of the device have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations. The FDA reviews design and manufacturing practices, record keeping, reports of adverse events, labeling and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. Device manufacturers are subject to periodic and unannounced inspection by the FDA for compliance with cGMP requirements that govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, servicing, labeling, storage, installation and distribution of all finished medical devices intended for human use. If the FDA finds that a manufacturer has failed to comply or that a medical device is ineffective or poses an unreasonable health risk, it can institute or seek a wide variety of enforcement actions and remedies, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe actions, including:

&#167; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; 

&#167; recall or seizure of products; 

&#167; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; 

&#167; refusal of requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products; 

&#167; withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals already granted; and 

&#167; criminal prosecution. 

The FDA also has the authority to require repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any medical device. The FDA also administers certain controls over the export of medical devices from the United States, as international sales of medical devices that have not received FDA approval are subject to FDA export requirements. Additionally, each foreign country subjects such medical devices to its own regulatory requirements. In the European Union, a harmonized medical device directive legislates approval requirements. Within this framework, the CE Mark, an attestation of conformity with European Union legislation, allows for the legal marketing of the product in all member states.

Pricing and Reimbursement 

In the United States and internationally, sales of our Biosciences products and our &#160; ability to generate revenues on such sales are dependent, in significant part, on the availability and level of reimbursement from third-party payors, including state and federal governments and private insurance plans. Insurers have implemented cost-cutting measures and other initiatives to enforce more stringent reimbursement standards &#160; and likely will continue to do so in the future. These measures include the establishment of more restrictive formularies and increases in the out-of-pocket obligations of patients for such products. In addition, particularly in the United States &#160; and increasingly in other countries, we are required to provide discounts and pay rebates to state and federal governments and agencies in &#160; connection with purchases of our products that are reimbursed by such entities. Various provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care &#160; Act (as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act), &#160; collectively referred to as the Affordable Care Act, increased the levels of rebates and discounts that we have to provide in connection with sales of &#160; such products that are paid for, or reimbursed by, certain state and federal government agencies and programs. It is possible that future legislation &#160; in the United States and other jurisdictions could be enacted, which could potentially impact the reimbursement rates for our Biosciences products and also could further impact the levels of discounts and rebates we are required to pay &#160; to state and federal government entities. The most significant governmental reimbursement programs in the United States relevant to our products are described below:

Medicare Part B . &#160; Medicare Part B covers drug products provided in a physician's office or hospital outpatient setting under a payment &#160; methodology using "average sales price," or ASP, information. We are required to provide ASP information to &#160; the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, on a quarterly basis. Medicare payment rates &#160; are currently set at ASP plus six percent, although this rate could change in future years. If we fail to timely or accurately submit ASP, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties. IXINITY, WinRho SDF, HepaGam B and VARIZIG are all eligible to be reimbursed under Medicare Part B.

Medicaid Rebate Program . For products to be covered by Medicaid, drug manufacturers must enter into a rebate agreement with the Secretary of HHS on behalf of the states and must regularly submit certain pricing information to CMS. The pricing information submitted, including information about the "average manufacturer price," or AMP, and "best price" for each of our covered drugs, determines the amount of the rebate we must pay. The total rebate also includes an "additional" rebate, which functions as an "inflation penalty." The Affordable Care Act increased the amount of the basic rebate and, for some "line extensions," increased the additional rebate. It also requires manufacturers to pay rebates on utilization by enrollees in managed care organizations. If we fail to timely or accurately submit required pricing information, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties. In addition, the Affordable Care Act made changes to the definition of AMP, which still need to be clarified by CMS and could affect the rebate liability for our products. Sales of IXINITY, WinRho SDF, HepaGam B and VARIZIG that are reimbursed through Medicaid are subject to the obligations related to this program.

340B/PHS Drug Pricing Program . The availability of federal funds to pay for IXINITY, WinRho SDF, HepaGam B and VARIZIG under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we extend discounts under the 340B/Public Health Service, or PHS, drug pricing program. The 340B/PHS drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to charge no more than a statutorily-determined "ceiling" price to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as the outpatient departments of hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of Medicaid and Medicare beneficiaries. A product's ceiling price for a quarter reflects its Medicaid AMP from two quarters earlier less its Medicaid rebate amount from two quarters earlier. Therefore, the above-mentioned revisions to the Medicaid rebate formula and AMP definition enacted by the Affordable Care Act could cause the discount produced by the ceiling price to increase. Under the Affordable Care Act, four additional classes of entities were made eligible for these discounts, increasing the volume of sales for which we must now offer the 340B/PHS discounts.

Federal Supply Schedule . &#160; We make IXINITY, WinRho SDF, HepaGam B and VARIZIG available for purchase by authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or DVA, pursuant to our FSS contract with the DVA. Under the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, we are required to offer deeply discounted FSS contract pricing to four federal agencies&#8212;the DVA, the DoD, the Coast Guard and the PHS (including the Indian Health Service)&#8212;for federal funding to be made available for reimbursement of any of our products under the Medicaid program, Medicare Part B and for our products to be eligible to be purchased by those four federal agencies and certain federal grantees. FSS pricing to those four federal agencies must be equal to or less than the "Federal Ceiling Price," which is, at a minimum, 24% less than the Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price for the prior fiscal year.

Foreign Regulation 

Currently, we maintain a commercial presence in the United States and Canada as well as select foreign countries. In the future, we may further expand our commercial presence to additional foreign countries and territories. In the European Union, medicinal products are authorized following a process similarly demanding as the process required in the United States. Medicinal products must be &#160; authorized in one of two ways, either through the decentralized procedure, which provides for the mutual recognition procedure of national &#160; approval decisions by the competent authorities of the EU Member States or through the centralized procedure by the European Commission, &#160; which provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all EU member states. The authorization process is essentially the &#160; same irrespective of which route is used. We are also subject to many of the same continuing post-approval requirements in the EU as we are in the United States ( e.g., good manufacturing practices).

Anti-Corruption Laws 

We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care "fraud and abuse," including state and federal anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations and very few court decisions addressing industry practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment, to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. If we violate the kickback or false claims laws, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Similar restrictions are imposed on the promotion and marketing of medicinal products in the European Union and other countries. Laws (including those governing promotion, marketing and anti-kickback provisions), industry regulations and professional codes of conduct are often strictly enforced. Even in those countries where we are not directly responsible for the promotion and marketing of our products, inappropriate activity by our international distribution partners can have implications for us. In addition, as part of the Affordable Care Act, the federal government has enacted the Physician Payment Sunshine Act. Manufacturers of drugs are required to publicly report payments and transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. This information is posted on a public website. Failure to timely and accurately submit required information could subject us to civil penalties. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain and the extent to which the laws will be enforced is not always clear.

Our operations are also subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. We also may be implicated under the FCPA by the activities of our partners, collaborators, contract research organizations, vendors or other agents. As a public company, the FCPA also requires us to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all of our transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Our operations are also subject to compliance with the U.K. Bribery Act, which applies to bribery activities both in the public and private sector, Canada's Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act and similar laws in other countries.

Other Regulation 

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import, export, use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents used in connection with our product development, are or may be applicable to our activities.

EMPLOYEES

As of February 19, 2016, we had 1,292 full-time employees. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with our employees are good.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We maintain a website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com. We make available, free of charge on our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC.

We also make available, free of charge on our website, the reports filed with the SEC by our executive officers, directors and 10% stockholders pursuant to Section 16 under the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after copies of those filings are provided to us by those persons. In addition, we intend to make available on our website all disclosures that are required to be posted by applicable law, the rules of the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange listing standards regarding any amendment to, or waiver of, our code of business conduct and ethics. We have included our website address as an inactive textual reference only. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

