 Item 1. Business 

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors. For a discussion of important factors that could cause our results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements, please refer to Part I, Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; and Part I, Item 7 &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; below. 

GENERAL 

Background 

Schweitzer-Mauduit International, Inc. (referred to, with its consolidated subsidiaries, as "we", "us", "our", the "Company", "SWM INTL" or "SWM" unless the context indicates otherwise) is a multinational producer of specialty papers and resin-based products headquartered in the United States of America. 

The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1995 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kimberly-Clark Corporation ("Kimberly-Clark"). On November 30, 1995, Kimberly-Clark transferred its tobacco-related paper and other specialty paper products businesses conducted in the United States, France and Canada to the Company and distributed all of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company to its stockholders (the "spin-off"). As a result, the Company became an independent public company. 

We conduct business in over 90 countries and operate 18 production locations worldwide, with facilities in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, France, Luxembourg, Russia, Brazil, China and Poland. We also have a 50% equity interest in two joint ventures in China: China Tobacco Mauduit (Jiangmen) Paper Industry Ltd. ("CTM"), which produces cigarette papers, and China Tobacco Schweitzer (Yunnan) Reconstituted Tobacco Co. Ltd. ("CTS"), which produces reconstituted tobacco leaf products. Effective October 2015, the Company operates under two reportable segments: Engineered Papers ("EP"), which produces cigarette papers, reconstituted tobacco leaf, and wrapper and binder products for sale to cigarette and cigar manufacturers, as well as other non-tobacco specialized commercial and industrial paper products, and Advanced Materials &#38; Structures ("AMS", formerly known as the Filtration segment), which manufactures resin-based products for filtration, surface protection, medical, and industrial applications. 

Our principal executive office is located at 100 North Point Center East, Suite 600, Alpharetta, Georgia 30022-8246 and our telephone number is (800) 514-0186. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "SWM". 

Strategic Transformation - Philosophy and Approach 

Through 2013, the Company largely operated as a tobacco-centric paper operation, almost exclusively serving the demands of cigarette and cigar manufacturers. In 2012, SWM's management and Board of Directors elected to pursue a strategic transformation and diversify the business by increasing sales and profit streams outside the tobacco industry, primarily through acquisitions, while carefully managing the profitable but mature tobacco operations to maximize the Company's cash flow. Management believes that, over time, this strategy will prove effective in counterbalancing the expected long-term secular declines of the tobacco industry and transform SWM into a more growth-oriented enterprise. The Company began selectively targeting acquisition candidates serving attractive end segments with high-value technologies and commensurate margins, defensible competitive positions, and strong growth prospects. In addition, management believes many acquisition targets can have unique synergy opportunities when combined with the assets and capabilities of SWM, such as a global infrastructure, specialized paper-making technologies, and a robust program for operational excellence and cost management. 

&#32;1 

As a result of the Company's strategic actions to date, non-tobacco sales as a percentage of total Company net sales have grown from approximately 6% in 2013 to approximately 30% in 2015. Through our diversification process over the past several years, the tobacco industry has remained challenging; however the Company's cash flow has remained solid. In 2015, SWM generated approximately $120 million in free cash flow, calculated by deducting capital expenditures of approximately $24 million and capitalized software costs of approximately $1 million from operating cash provided by continuing operations of approximately $145 million, as shown on the company's consolidated statement of cash flows. Management uses free cash flow, along with liquidity available through our current credit facility, as a metric to support continued merger and acquisition activity and internal growth-oriented investments. The EP segment, which still primarily services the tobacco industry, is the Company's principal source of cash flow, enabling growth-oriented investments in the AMS segment. 

Strategic Transformation - Execution 

In early 2013, the Company announced a capital allocation strategy to return at least one-third of its free cash flow to investors through dividends and share buybacks, while also deploying free cash flow and balance sheet capacity to fund the diversification investments needed to improve SWM's long-term growth outlook. Pursuant to this capital allocation strategy, since the beginning of 2013, the Company has paid more than $130 million in dividends and spent $50 million on a share buyback, returning approximately 46% of free cash flow to investors in the aggregate during the three year period. The Company has also invested a total of approximately $540 million over the same period in diversification through acquisitions. 

In December 2013, SWM acquired DelStar, Inc. ("DelStar"), a manufacturer of resin-based plastic nets, films and non-wovens, focused on water and other liquid filtration, medical, and industrial applications. DelStar established SWM's presence in new end-segments and added a portfolio of high-value technologies and manufacturing capabilities. Management considered DelStar an attractive independent asset which stood to benefit from SWM's global operations, capabilities in Lean Six Sigma/Operational Excellence disciplines, and its ability to fund bolt-on acquisitions and make other strategic capital investments. In December 2014, the Company executed two bolt-on transactions, acquiring assets from Pronamic Industries, Inc. ("Pronamic") and Smith &#38; Nephew ("SNN"). The Pronamic assets added new technologies to DelStar's filtration business, enhancing our presence in air filtration, while the SNN transaction approximately doubled the DelStar medical business and expanded the Company's wound care product offerings. In October 2015, the Company acquired Argotec Intermediate Holdings LLC ("Argotec"), a manufacturer of urethane films for specialty applications in high-growth surface protection applications such as automotive paint protection, as well as glass lamination, medical and industrial products. Argotec added to SWM's growing resin-based technology capabilities and added scale to the AMS growth platform. 

The acquisitions described above comprise our newly formed AMS segment. The Company believes that these businesses offer long-term growth opportunities across a diverse set of end-segments, advancing SWM's goal of diversifying its revenue stream, while maintaining consistency with many attributes of SWM. These core attributes include a focus on highly engineered specialty materials, profitability associated with premium differentiated products, strong customer relationships, and the value proposition of selling a relatively low-cost yet critical component of an end-product. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), which filings include this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Proxy Statements, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all related amendments, are available, free of charge, on the Investor Relations section of our web site at www.swmintl.com . Information from our web site is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These reports are available soon after they are filed electronically with, or furnished to, the SEC. The web site allows access to historical financial information, press releases and quarterly earnings conference calls, our Code of Conduct, corporate governance guidelines, Board of Directors committee charters, as well as disclosure of any amendment to or waivers of our Code of Conduct granted to any of the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer. The web site provides additional background information about us including information on our history, products and 

&#32;2 

locations. Requests for information, requests to contact our audit committee chairman, lead non-management director or the independent directors as a group, or requests to report concerns about accounting or other issues can be made in writing and sent to the Investor Relations Department at our principal executive office address listed above. 

Our quarterly earnings conference calls are typically held the morning after our quarterly earnings releases and are available through our web site via a webcast. The tentative dates for our quarterly earnings conference calls related to 2016 financial results are May 5, 2016, August 4, 2016, November 3, 2016 and February 16, 2017. These dates are subject to change. Instructions on how to listen to the webcasts and updated information on times and actual dates are available through our web site at www.swmintl.com . 

We have provided a Glossary of Terms at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#32;3 

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

Segment Financial Information . We operate and manage two reportable segments based on our product lines: Engineered Papers and Advanced Materials &#38; Structures. In October 2015, the Company consolidated its former Paper and Reconstituted Tobacco segments into one reportable segment, Engineered Papers, conforming to the new organizational structure and strategic management of the former Paper and Reconstituted Tobacco segments, which largely supply the tobacco industry. The other reportable segment is Advanced Materials &#38; Structures, which manufactures resin-based products for filtration, surface protection, medical, and industrial applications. This segment is comprised of the four businesses we acquired since 2013: DelStar, the Pronamic and SNN acquisitions, and Argotec. 

Additional information regarding "Segment Performance" is included in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. In addition, selected financial data for our segments is available in Note 19 , Segment Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and a discussion regarding the risks associated with foreign operations is available in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, Market Risk. In conjunction with the change in reportable segments, corresponding information for all prior periods presented has been restated to correspond to the presentation in the current year. 

Financial information about foreign and domestic operations, contained under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" appearing in Part II, Item 7 herein and in Notes 11 , 12 , 15 &#32;and 19 &#32;("Restructuring and Impairment Activities," "Debt," "Income Taxes" and "Segment Information," respectively) to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in Part II, Item 8 herein, is incorporated in this Item 1 by reference. 

Engineered Papers 

Products. &#32;&#32; Our EP segment produces both tobacco-related papers and non-tobacco-related papers. Our tobacco-related papers, which comprise a large majority of EP's sales, include various porous papers used to wrap parts of a cigarette (i.e, tobacco column, filter) and reconstituted tobacco leaf ("RTL"), which is often blended with virgin tobacco in a cigarette. 

One of our key cigarette paper products is low ignition propensity ("LIP") cigarette paper. LIP cigarettes are designed to self-extinguish when they are not actively being smoked, thus offering a fire-safety feature. The U.S., the E.U., and several other smaller jurisdictions have mandated the use of LIP papers. The mandated design and quality standards used in the U.S. and the E.U. were largely based on SWM's technology, for which the Company maintains an extensive and active intellectual property portfolio. We operate in the LIP marketplace using our registered trademarks ALGINEX&#174; and GLUCIGEN TM . Our solutions pioneered this cigarette paper category, and we remain a leader in this cigarette paper sub-segment through either direct sales or through licensing agreements. 

RTL is another key product line, accounting for a significant portion of EP's total sales and profits. Cigarette manufacturers primarily use RTL to blend with virgin tobacco to achieve certain attributes in the finished cigarettes, such as taste characteristics or reduced delivery of tar, nicotine, or other tobacco-related smoking constituents. Historically, the production of RTL has often been a cost-effective use for tobacco leaf scraps, though virgin leaf price volatility can shift that cost relationship during periods of high or low leaf prices. For the majority of our RTL products, we operate under "tolling" arrangements, through which our customers supply raw materials (tobacco scraps) for us to process into RTL and return. We also produce a similar line of reconstituted tobacco products, wrappers and binders, for use in machine-made cigars. 

Our non-tobacco paper products include a mix of lightweight papers including low-volume, high-value, engineered materials such as alkaline battery separator papers, as well as high-volume commodity paper grades for printing and writing, flooring laminates, and food service packaging, which are intended to maximize machine utilization. We intend to make continued diversification investments in our EP segment to broaden its offerings. Specifically, we are exploring further end-segments that may represent attractive uses of our existing machine capacity, and/or may allow us to further monetize our paper making and reconstitution technologies. 

&#32;4 

Our wet-laid paper making technologies can be broadly classified into two main production processes: flat-wire production and incline wire production. Generally, our machines are flat-wire, meaning a liquid slurry of short pulp fibers and water are laid onto flat-wire conveyor belts, with the water draining through the wire as the fibers (wood, flax, tobacco, etc.) bond together to form a paper sheet. Incline-wire machines allow for increased drainage, enabling the use of longer fibers which bond into a more open web, increasing the porosity. Incline wire machines are typically associated with higher-value products given this added porosity, which is important in filtration and other specialty applications that tend to justify premium pricing. 

Markets and Customers. &#32; Our EP segment is heavily influenced by the global trends in cigarette consumption, particularly in the U.S., Brazil and the E.U., where we have the majority of our operations and highest share of the category's volume. Historically, mature geographic regions, such as the U.S. and the E.U. have exhibited a steady decline in smoking rates, often to the low-to-mid single digits. Smoking rates in Asia, especially China, and other developing economies have generally performed better, with some regions/countries showing consumption stability or growth. However, global cigarette consumption has been relatively flat over the past several years. We expect global cigarette consumption to be largely influenced by Chinese consumption, as China now represents nearly 45% of global cigarette consumption. The Chinese economy is closed to international tobacco companies, and is controlled by China National Tobacco Corporation ("CNTC"), which regulates and manages all Chinese cigarette producers. We participate in the Chinese tobacco marketplace through two unconsolidated joint ventures with CNTC, in which our 50/50 joint venture partners are either the monopoly itself and/or our customers. These results are not consolidated into our net sales and operating profits; instead, rather SWM's share of the joint ventures' net income is classified as equity income from affiliates on our income statement. 

We supply the major, and many of the smaller, cigarette and cigar manufacturers, including international tobacco companies, regional tobacco manufacturers, and government monopolies. We sell our products directly to the major tobacco companies or their designated converters in the Americas, Europe, Asia and elsewhere. Philip Morris-USA, a subsidiary of Altria Group Inc., Japan Tobacco Inc. ("JT"), and British American Tobacco ("BAT"), are our three largest customers and, together with their respective affiliates and designated converters, accounted for 42% , 46% &#32;and 57% &#32;of our 2015, 2014 and 2013 consolidated net sales, respectively. Although the total loss of one or more of these large customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, we do not believe that such a loss is likely given the significance of our share to the total worldwide supply available to meet the demand for cigarette-related fine papers. 

Sales and Distribution. &#32; Our internal marketing, sales and customer service organizations sell most of our tobacco-related products manufactured in the EP segment directly to cigarette manufacturers or their designated converters. Most of our EP segment's non-tobacco related products, which in 2013 through 2015 represented approximately 10% to 12% of its net sales, are sold directly to manufacturers. In some geographic regions, we use sales agents to assist us in the sales process. We do not sell our products directly to consumers or advertise our products in consumer media. We typically deliver our products to customers by truck, rail and ocean-going vessels. As is typical in our industry, ownership of the product generally transfers to our customer upon shipment from our mills, except for certain export sales where ownership typically transfers at the foreign port or customer facility. 

Competition. &#32;The specialized nature of our tobacco-related papers requires unique research and development capability and special papermaking equipment and skills to meet exacting customer specifications. These factors have limited the number of competitors capable of servicing global cigarette manufacturers. 

We estimate that our share of global sales of cigarette paper is more than 30%, excluding China. As the sole domestic producer of cigarette papers in North America, we believe that we have a significant majority of the category share in that region. Our paper assets in Brazil support a similarly strong competitive position in Brazil and the rest of Latin America. Our paper mills in France and LIP printing facility in Poland sell a large amount of their products in the E.U. We estimate that we have a direct share of more than 40% of cigarette paper sales in the E.U., and a key competitor to which we have licensed our LIP technology has another approximately 40% share of cigarette paper sales in the E.U.; thus, we believe we are able to monetize to some degree more than 80% of the LIP-compliant E.U. cigarette market. Our principal competitors include delfortgroup AG (" delfort"), which licenses our LIP technology, Miquel y Costas &#38; Miquel S.A. ("Miquel y Costas"), Julius Glatz GmbH and PT Bukit Muria Jaya ("BMJ"). We believe that the basis 

&#32;5 

of cigarette and our non-tobacco papers competition is price, consistent quality, security of supply, and level of technical service. 

Outside of China, SWM is the only non-cigarette company that produces RTL through a paper-making process. We estimate that our share of global RTL usage in 2014, excluding China, was approximately 45%. Some cigarette companies such as Philip Morris-USA, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, JT and STMA (China) produce RTL primarily for their own internal use. Huabao International Holdings Ltd, a Hong Kong company, produces reconstituted tobacco in China. We believe that the basis of competition in this geographic region is primarily quality and price. Sales volumes are influenced by worldwide virgin tobacco prices and supply as well as cigarette producers' various in-house tobacco reconstitution processes and blending decisions, as lower prices of virgin tobacco or other reprocessed tobacco forms may compete against our RTL products. 

Raw Materials and Energy. &#32; Wood pulp is the primary fiber used in our EP operations. Our operations consumed approximately 72,000 and 70,000 metric tons of wood pulp in 2015 and 2014, respectively, all of which we purchased. Our operations also use other cellulose fibers, the most significant of which are flax fiber and tobacco leaf by-products, which are the primary raw materials for certain cigarette papers and reconstituted tobacco products, respectively. We believe that our purchased raw materials for our EP segment are generally available from several sources. 

The papermaking processes use significant amounts of energy, primarily electricity, natural gas and fuel oil to run the paper machines and other equipment used in the manufacture of pulp and paper. In France, Brazil, Poland and in the U.S., we believe that energy supply is generally reliable, although prices can fluctuate significantly based on variations in overall demand. We enter into agreements to procure a portion of our energy requirements for future periods in order to reduce the uncertainty of future energy costs. 

Additional information regarding agreements for the supply of certain raw materials and energy is included in Note 18 , &#32;Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Backlog and Seasonality. &#32;We have historically experienced a steady flow of orders for our products. Our facilities typically receive and ship orders within a 30-day period, except for RTL, for which orders are generally placed longer in advance of delivery. We base our manufacturing schedules and raw material purchases on our evaluation of customer forecasts and current market conditions. While U.S., Polish and Brazilian EP operations do not calculate or maintain records of order backlogs, we typically receive forecasts of future demands in advance from certain larger customers which are used to manage production and ensure a sufficient supply for their anticipated requirements. Our Spay, France facility's order backlog for RTL was approximately $111 million and $121 million on December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and is typically filled within one fiscal year. Our French cigarette papers order backlog was approximately $21 million and $35 million on December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Although not the case in the fourth quarter of 2015 due to large customer inventory builds of LIP papers in Europe ahead of an approaching regulatory change, sales of our paper and reconstituted tobacco products are generally subject to seasonal fluctuations due to periodic machine downtime and typically lower order volumes in the fourth quarter. In the United States and Europe, customer shutdowns of one to two weeks in duration typically occur in July and December. In Brazil, customer orders are typically lower in December due to a January and February holiday season. 

Advanced Materials &#38; Structures 

Products. &#32;&#32; We manufacture and sell a variety of highly engineered resin-based, rolled goods such as films, nets, foams and other non-wovens. These products are used in high-performance filtration, surface protection, medical, and other industrial applications. Most of our production technologies. including those used to produce resin-based plastic netting, are extrusion-based, meaning resin pellets are heated, softened, and forced through a metal die to form continuous sheets or strands. We also produce certain meltblown products, machined plastic core tubes, and resin-based rolled products. We have significant technological expertise in proprietary die construction, which our competitors often outsource, and we consider this an advantage in protecting our technology and competitive position. However, unlike the EP segment which relies primarily on patent protection for key innovation protection, AMS relies more heavily on trade secrets and manufacturing "know-how". 

&#32;6 

We manufacture our thermoplastic polyurethane films ("TPU") to have combinations of the following attributes; UV, scratch, and water resistance, "breathability" (e.g., to allow air flow in a skin-contact medical application) and ultra-clarity. The ability to demonstrate these rare combinations make them ideally suited for demanding surface protection applications, primarily automotive paint protection and security reinforced glass, medical, and certain industrial applications such as graphics and laminated textiles. Other films, including apertured film products, are used in the wound care application sub-segment of the medical industry, such as finger bandages, wound dressings, and other hospital-setting products. Our apertured film products are also used in products for the filtration industry and niche applications in areas such as semiconductor manufacturing and food packaging. 

Our thermoplastic nets are used in a variety of applications, the most prominent of which is as spacer netting in spiral wound reverse osmosis water filtration devices. We have established a strong presence in this niche application by customizing products to meet demanding customer specifications, such as thickness/weight, aperture performance, and heat and pressure resistance. Our nets are also used in a variety of industrial and life science filter applications such as fuel and hydraulic fluid filters, pharmaceutical filters, semiconductor filters, and food and beverage filters. They can also be found in a variety of packaging and protection applications. 

Our non-wovens are resin fiber-based materials typically used in air and liquid filtration applications, and our foams are mainly sold as components in wound care products. In addition to rolled goods, SWM also manufactures rigid core tubing, an extruded resin product that also is primarily used in reverse osmosis water filtration devices. 

Markets and Customers. &#32; The AMS segment supplies niche products mainly to customers producing finished goods for the filtration, surface protection, medical, and industrial end-segments. These products are highly engineered and often customized. In some cases, we are the sole supplier of certain products to our top customers. No customer represents more than 10% of our consolidated net sales. 

Generally the industries and customers the AMS segment serves are in growth industries, which acts to counterbalance smoking attrition and its impact on our consolidated sales. Reverse osmosis water filtration ("RO filtration") has exhibited long-term growth, and we expect it to continue to do so due to current and expected global demand for drinkable water. Many countries rely on RO filtration as their primary water desalination technology to produce drinkable water, and we expect infrastructure investments in the U.S. and overseas to continue long-term. Sales of our other filtration products, particularly those used in the oil, gas, and mining sectors, have historically exhibited steady growth; however, they are subject to cyclicality and commodity price volatility and were particularly adversely impacted by significant declines in global commodity markets starting in 2015. While our products do not filter oil and gas, they are used in heavy equipment and machinery used in the oil and gas industries, often filtering fuel and other hydraulic liquids, as well as serving other functions in the exploration, processing, and transport of oil and gas. 

The majority of our TPU film sales is for surface protection products used in automotive paint protection and are concentrated in the U.S. As a result, they are impacted by the U.S. auto industry. Other aspects of surface protection, such as bulletproof and security glass are heavily impacted by government and military contracts. Our medical products largely serve the wound care management sub-segment of the healthcare industry, while our industrial applications are spread across a variety of other industries, such as apparel, food manufacturing, graphics, and energy. 

Sales and Distribution. &#32; AMS products are primarily sold to customers by the marketing, sales and customer service organizations of our AMS operations directly to manufacturers and in some geographic regions, we use sales agents assist us in the sales process. Similar to the EP segment, we typically deliver our products to customers by truck, rail and ocean-going vessels. As is typical in the industries in which we operate, ownership of the product generally transfers to our customer upon shipment from our manufacturing facilities, except for certain export sales where ownership typically transfers at the foreign port or customer facility. In certain instances, we produce and hold or consign products for a limited number of customers for which title does not transfer until shipment from our manufacturing facility or the products are used by the customer. In these instances, we defer recognition of revenue related to these products until the products are shipped, or the product is used, as the case may be, and ownership of the product transfers to the customer. 

&#32;7 

Competition. &#32;Our AMS products are typically leaders in their respective categories and compete against niche products made by competitors such as Marshall Manufacturing Company, Johns Manville, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Shaoxing Naite Plastics Co. Ltd., 3M Company, Covestro AG, and Hollingsworth and Vose Company. We believe our AMS products compete primarily on product features, innovations and customer service across our filtration, surface protection, medical, and industrial end-segments. Of these segments, our industrial end-segment is generally the most price competitive due to a higher portion of commodity-type products, that we often sell in order to maximize our machine utilization. 

Raw Materials and Energy. &#32;&#32; The primary raw material used in our AMS products is plastic resin, and we rely on a variety of commodity grade and specialty resins, including Polypropylene, Polyurethane, Polyethylene, Polyamide (nylon) and a selection of specialized high temperature engineering grade resins. Our TPU films are produced using specialty resins which are significantly more expensive than commodity grade resins. Our thermoplastic nets and apertured films are produced using a blend of specialty resins and commodity grade resins like polypropylene. Resin prices fluctuate significantly and can impact profitability. To partially mitigate the effects of such fluctuations, we have contractual pricing adjustment mechanisms with certain customers. Commodity grade resin prices typically correlate with crude oil prices while specialty resin prices often do not. 

We have multiple sources for most of our resin needs. However, some of our resins are supplied by one or a few manufacturers. We believe that our purchased raw materials are generally available from several sources and that the loss of a single supplier would not likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to procure needed raw materials from other suppliers. Our total resin purchases in 2015 and 2014 totaled $54 million and $43 million, respectively. 

Backlog and Seasonality. &#32;In the AMS segment, customer orders are generally manufactured and shipped within 30 days or, in certain instances, within three months. Sales of our products within AMS are generally not subject to seasonal fluctuations. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the AMS segment order backlog was approximately $44 million and $20 million, respectively. 

Research and Development &#32; 

We employ approximately 70 research and development employees in research and laboratory facilities in France, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Poland, and the U.S. We are dedicated to developing product innovations and improvements to meet the needs of individual customers. We expensed $14.0 million &#32;in 2015, $15.7 million &#32;in 2014 and $15.3 million &#32;in 2013 on research and development. We believe that our research and product development capabilities have played an important role in establishing our reputation for high quality, superior products in both our EP and AMS segments. Within EP, our research and development has enabled us to establish and sustain leading shares in various cigarette paper products, specifically LIP paper. We also are working with customers to meet potential future demand for reduced-harm tobacco products. Within AMS, we have a history of finding innovative design solutions, including developing products that improve the performance of customers' products and manufacturing operations. We believe that our commitment to research and development, coupled with our investment in new technology and equipment, has positioned us to take advantage of growth opportunities in many places around the world. 

Patents and Trademarks &#32; 

As of December 31, 2015, we owned 241 patents and had 117 pending patent applications covering a variety of cigarette papers, RTL, cigar wrapper and binder and other products and processes in the U.S., Western Europe and several other countries. We believe that our patents, together with our papermaking expertise and technical sales support, have been instrumental in establishing us as the leading worldwide supplier of cigarette papers. We believe that patents have contributed to our position as the world's leading independent producer of papers used for LIP cigarettes. 

Management believes that in the EP segment, our "ALGINEX&#174;" water-based technology trademark, our "GLUCIGEN TM " trademark for use in banded papers for the production of LIP cigarettes, and the "SWM" logo and trade names have been important contributors to the marketing of our products. In our AMS segment, "DELSTAR&#174;," "NALTEX&#174;", "DELNET&#174;", "DELPORE&#174;", "STRATEX&#174;", and "CORETEC&#174;", "ARGOTEC&#174;" are important trade names which have high industry acceptance for marketing our products. 

&#32;8 

Management and direction for a large portion of SWM's research and development activities are provided from our Luxembourg City, Luxembourg operation ("SWM Luxembourg"). These activities are often performed at other SWM locations under contract by SWM Luxembourg, and funded by SWM Luxembourg. SWM Luxembourg has the authority to initiate and manage research and development projects in areas such as, but not limited to, LIP, our non-tobacco products unit (Advanced Fibers and Materials) and AMS. This operation also provides global oversight and active management for much of the Company's intellectual property rights. 

We have developed, individually or in conjunction with customers, technologies to address the demand for cigarette paper for LIP cigarettes in the U.S., Canada, Australia and the E.U. We have licensed to others the right to use certain of our LIP intellectual property, excluding ALGINEX&#174; related intellectual properties. 

Administrative and Court Proceedings Regarding Papers for Lower Ignition Propensity Cigarettes 

In December 2009, Miquel y Costas, Soci&#233;t&#233; Pap&#233;teries du L&#233;man SAS (&#8220;PdL&#8221;), and delfortgroup AG filed Notices of Opposition to the European Patent Office's ("EPO"), grant of our European Patent EP 1482815. The opponents contend that the claimed invention is not disclosed in a manner sufficiently clear and complete for it to be carried out by a person skilled in the art and that the claims were either not novel or lacked inventive step due to prior art references (including, among others, two earlier patents of SWM cited by the Examiner prior to granting the patent). In connection with its entrance into a worldwide LIP license agreement with SWM, delfortgroup has withdrawn its opposition and is no longer a party to these proceedings (although delfortgroup's arguments and evidence presented remain in the proceedings). On September 15, 2014, Miquel y Costas &#38; Miquel S.A. withdrew its opposition and is no longer a party to the proceedings. On September 12, 2014, SWM amended the patent claims. On October 27, 2014, the Opposition Division of the EPO decided to maintain the patent in amended form. The EPO's written decision was issued on January 23, 2015 and was appealed by PdL and Julius Glatz GmbH (&#8220;Glatz&#8221;) intervened in the appeal. The final outcome of this dispute could remove the legal barriers preventing competitors from practicing the ALGINEX&#174; LIP solution. The patent remains in effect and is enforceable even while opposition appeal proceedings are pending. 

On November 11, 2010, the EPO issued a Decision to Grant SWM European Patent No. 1333729. On December 8, 2010, Glatz filed a Notice of Opposition to the grant of this patent. In September 2011, PdL, delfortgroup, and Miquel y Costas each filed opposition papers and Glatz supplemented its previous filing. However, PdL failed to pay the opposition fee and consequently is not a party to the opposition proceedings. It subsequently refiled its opposition papers as third-party observations. In connection with its entrance into a worldwide LIP license agreement with SWM, delfortgroup has withdrawn its opposition and is no longer a party to these proceedings (though delfortgroup's arguments and evidence presented will remain in the proceedings). In its hearing on January 21, 2015, the Opposition Division of the EPO decided to revoke the patent for claim 10 allegedly containing subject-matter that goes beyond the application as originally filed. The Company believes that the EPO properly granted the patent and intends to vigorously defend the patent. Accordingly, SWM has appealed the decision. The patent remains in effect and enforceable while opposition appeal proceedings are pending. 

On June 27, 2012, the EPO granted the Company's applications for two LIP-related patents, EP 2127544 and EP 2127545, that are based on divisional applications related to European Patent No. 1333729. Glatz and Miquel y Costas each filed Notices of Opposition to the grant of EP 2127544. Glatz, Miquel y Costas and PdL each filed Notices of Opposition to the grant of EP 2127545. SWM filed its responses to the Notices of Opposition on March 7, 2014. In its hearing on February 22, 2016, the Opposition Division of the EPO decided to revoke the EP 2127545 patent for claim 1 allegedly containing subject-matter that goes beyond the application as originally filed. The Company believes that the EPO properly granted the patent and intends to vigorously defend the patent. Accordingly, SWM will appeal the decision. The patent remains in effect and enforceable while opposition appeal proceedings are pending. The Company believes that the EPO properly granted the patents, and intends to vigorously defend the patents. 

On September 12, 2012, the EPO granted the Company's LIP-related patent, EP 2127543, which is based on a divisional application related to European Patent No. 1333729. PdL, Glatz and Miquel y Costas each filed Notices of Opposition, and SWM filed its responses to the Notice of Opposition on March 21, 2014. In its hearing on February 26, 2016, the Opposition Division of the EPO decided to revoke the EP 2127543 patent for claim 1 allegedly containing subject- 

&#32;9 

matter that goes beyond the application as originally filed. The Company believes that the EPO properly granted the patent and intends to vigorously defend the patent. Accordingly, SWM will appeal the decision. The patent remains in effect and enforceable while opposition appeal proceedings are pending. 

On April 16, 2014, the EPO granted the Company's LIP-related patent, EP 2319333, that is based on a divisional application related to European Patent No. 1845810. Glatz filed a Notice of Opposition on January 16, 2015, and SWM filed its response to the Notice of Opposition on September 4, 2015. The Company believes that the EPO properly granted the patent and it intends to vigorously defend the patent. 

In January 2015, the Company initiated patent infringement proceedings in Germany against a competitor under multiple LIP-related patents. In partial response to the infringement action, the defendant initiated a nullity action against the German part of EP 0870437, one of the four patents asserted by the Company in the lawsuit. The Company believes that the EP 0870437 patent is valid and intends to vigorously defend the patent. The cost, timing and outcome of intellectual property litigation can be unpredictable and thus no assurances can be given as to the outcome or impact on us of such litigation. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 3,100 regular, full-time, active employees. 

North American Operations . &#32;&#32;Hourly employees at the Spotswood, New Jersey, and Ancram, New York mills are represented by locals of the United Steel Workers Union. The three-year collective bargaining agreement with employees at our Spotswood mill is a three-year agreement which is effective through July 28, 2016. The three-year collective bargaining agreement with employees at our Ancram mill is effective through September 30, 2017. We believe employee and union relations continue to be positive at the Spotswood and Ancram mills. 

The fiber operations of our Canadian subsidiary, Newberry, South Carolina facility, Argotec facility, and DelStar facilities are non-union. We believe that employee relations are positive. 

French Operations . &#32;Hourly employees at our Quimperl&#233;, Spay, and Saint-Girons, France mills are union represented. From time to time, we undertake certain restructuring activities in France and elsewhere that can impact our employee relations. For instance, in the fourth quarter of 2014, we incurred a work disruption at our Spay facility in connection with certain restructuring activities. We believe that our employee relations in these locations are generally as positive as other similarly situated French manufacturing operations under similar circumstances. 

Luxembourg Operations. Employees at our Luxembourg facility are non-union. We believe that employee relations in Luxembourg are positive. 

Brazilian Operations . &#32;&#32;Hourly employees at the Pirahy, Brazil mill are represented by a union. The one-year collective bargaining agreement with employees at SWM-B is effective through May 31, 2016. We believe that employee relations are generally positive and comparable to those of other similarly situated Brazilian manufacturing operations. 

Polish Operations . &#32;&#32;Employees at our Strykow, Poland facility are non-union. We believe that employee relations in Poland are positive. 

Chinese Operations . &#32;Employees at our Suzhou, China facility are non-union. We believe that employee relations in China are positive. 

English Operations. &#32;&#32;Some hourly employees at our Gilberdyke, England facility are represented by a union. We believe that employee relations are positive. 

&#32;10 

Environmental Matters 

Capital expenditures for environmental controls to meet legal requirements and those relating to the protection of the environment at our facilities in the U.S., United Kingdom, France, Brazil, Poland, China and Canada were $2.6 million &#32;in 2015, no material amount of which was the result of environmental fines or settlements. We expect such expenditures to be $2.0 million or less in each of the next two years, of which no material amounts are expected to be the result of environmental fines or settlements. These expenditures are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or competitive position; however, these estimates could be modified as a result of changes in our plans, changes in legal requirements or other factors. 

Working Capital &#32; 

We normally maintain approximately 60 to 90 days of inventories to support our operations. Our sales terms average between 15 and 60 days for payment by our customers, dependent upon the products and market segment served. With respect to our accounts payable, we typically carry approximately 30 to 60 days outstanding, in accordance with our purchasing terms, which vary by business location. The accounts payable balance varies in relation to changes in our manufacturing operations, particularly due to changes in prices of wood pulp, resins and purchased energy and the level and timing of capital expenditures related to projects in progress. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The names and ages of our executive officers as of February 26, 2016, together with certain biographical information, are as follows: 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Position 

Fr&#233;d&#233;ric P. Villoutreix 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

Allison Aden 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer 

Michel Fievez 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Engineered Papers 

Greerson McMullen 

&#160; 

&#160; 

General Counsel and Secretary 

Don Meltzer 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Advanced Materials &#38; Structures 

Robert Cardin 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Corporate Controller 

There are no family relationships between any of the directors, or any of our executive officers. None of our officers were selected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between the officer and any person other than the Company. Our executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors and are elected annually by the Board. 

Fr&#233;d&#233;ric P. Villoutreix &#32;was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer effective January 1, 2009. Mr. Villoutreix joined the Company on December 7, 2005, was elected Chief Operating Officer in February 2006, and served as interim President, French Operations from December 2006 to June 2007. Mr. Villoutreix joined us in December 2005 from Compagnie de Saint-Gobain, a leading French multi-national manufacturer of engineered materials and products, where he worked since 1990. From 2001 to 2005, Mr. Villoutreix held key manufacturing positions in Europe and the United States with Saint-Gobain, including General Manager, World Construction Products and Stone, Luxembourg and Vice President, Abrasives Europe and Coated Abrasives World with 33 operating locations. 

Allison Aden was appointed Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in November 2015. Prior to joining SWM, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Americold Logistics, LLC, a global leader in temperature-controlled warehousing and logistics in the food industry, from 2012 to 2015. Prior to that, Ms. Aden served as the Chief Financial Officer at Recall Holdings Limited, a global provider of information management solutions, from 2007 to 2012. 

Michel Fievez &#32;was appointed Executive Vice President, Engineered Papers in December 2014. He previously held the title of Executive Vice President, Reconstituted Tobacco at the Company since March 2010. Prior to that, he held 

&#32;11 

the position of President - European Operations from June 2007 to March 2010. From 2003 to May 2007, Mr. Fievez served as General Manager One Side Coated Papers and then Vice President and General Manager Packaging, Metalizing and Office and Graphic with Ahlstrom Corporation, a fiber-based materials company. From 1998 to 2003, he held key management positions, including Managing Director, with Chesapeake Display and Packaging in Europe, and from 1994 to 1998, held the position of Vice President Manufacturing and Technology with Mead Packaging Europe. Before that, he worked for 5 years as Associate and Engagement Manager with McKinsey &#38; Company. 

Greerson McMullen has served as General Counsel and Secretary since May 2013. Previously, Mr. McMullen served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Government Affairs &#38; Secretary of the ServiceMaster Company since November 2007 (holding the Government Affairs title since March 2010). The ServiceMaster Company is a residential services company. 

Don Meltzer was appointed Executive Vice President, Advanced Materials &#38; Structures in July 2015. Previously, Mr. Meltzer served as CEO of Tensar Corporation, a manufacturer of construction site development products and solutions, from October 2010 to April 2015, and as President &#38; CEO of American Pad &#38; Paper LLC, a manufacturer of office products, including writing pads, specialty papers, filing products and envelopes, from September 2005 to June 2010. 

Robert Cardin has served as our Corporate Controller since November 2013. Previously, Mr. Cardin served as Controller for Syncreon International Group, a specialized provider of integrated logistics services to global industries, since 2011. Prior to that time he was employed by DENTSPLY International Inc., a worldwide manufacturer of dental products, as Assistant Corporate Controller from 2010 to 2011 and as Group Controller - Dental Consumables Business from 2004 to 2010. Mr. Cardin served as the Company's Interim Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from April 2015 until Ms. Aden was hired in November 2015, at which point Mr. Cardin resumed his previous role as Corporate Controller. 

