 ITEM 1 - BUSINESS 

OVERVIEW &#32;Kennametal Inc. was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1943. As a global industrial leader, Kennametal delivers productivity solutions to customers seeking peak performance in demanding environments. The Company provides innovative wear-resistant products, application engineering and services backed by advanced material science serving customers across diverse sectors of industrial production, transportation, earthworks, energy, construction, process industries and aerospace. Kennametal solutions are built around industry-essential technology platforms, including precision-engineered metalworking tools and components, surface technologies and earth cutting tools that are mission-critical to customer operations battling extreme conditions associated with wear fatigue, corrosion and high temperatures. The Company&#8217;s reputation for material and industrial technology excellence, as well as expertise and innovation in the development of custom solutions and services, contributes to its leading position in its primary industrial and infrastructure markets. End users of the Company&#8217;s products include manufacturers, metalworking suppliers, machinery operators and processors engaged in a diverse array of industries, including the manufacture of transportation vehicles and components; machine tool, light machinery and heavy machinery industries; airframe and aerospace components, defense; as well as producers and suppliers in equipment-intensive operations such as coal mining, road construction, quarrying, oil and gas exploration, refining, production and supply. 

Our product offering includes a wide selection of standard and customized technologies for metalworking, such as sophisticated metal cutting tools, tooling systems and services, as well as advanced, high-performance materials, such as cemented tungsten carbide products, super alloys, coatings and investment castings to address customer demands. We offer these products through a variety of channels to meet customer-specified needs. We are a leading global supplier of tooling, engineered components and advanced materials consumed in production processes. We believe we are one of the largest global providers of consumable metal cutting tools and tooling supplies. 

We specialize in developing and manufacturing metalworking tools and wear-resistant engineered components and coatings using a specialized type of powder metallurgy. Our metalworking tools are made of cemented tungsten carbides, ceramics, cermets and super-hard materials. We also manufacture and market a complete line of tool holders, tool-holding systems and rotary-cutting tools by machining and fabricating steel bars and other metal alloys. In addition, we produce specialized compacts and metallurgical powders, as well as products made from tungsten carbide or other hard materials that are used for custom-engineered and challenging applications, including mining and highway construction, among others. Further, we develop, manufacture and market engineered components and surface technology solutions with proprietary metal cladding capabilities. 

Unless otherwise specified, any reference to a &#8220;year&#8221; refers to the fiscal year ending on June 30. 

BUSINESS SEGMENT REVIEW &#32;The Company manages and reports its business in the following two segments: Industrial and Infrastructure. The Company's reportable operating segments have been determined in accordance with the Company's internal management structure, which is organized based on operating activities, the manner in which we organize segments for making operating decisions and assessing performance and the availability of separate financial results. Sales and operating income by segment are presented in Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K (MD&#38;A). Additional segment data is provided in Note 20 of our consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K (Item 8) which is incorporated herein by reference. 

During fiscal 2017, we began operating under a new structure. See additional discussion included in MD&#38;A. 

INDUSTRIAL &#32;In the Industrial segment, we focus on customers in the transportation, general engineering, aerospace and defense market sectors, as well as the machine tool industry. Our customers in these end markets use our products and services in the manufacture of engines, airframes, automobiles, trucks, ships and other various types of industrial equipment. The technology and customization requirements we provide vary by customer, application and industry. The value we deliver to our Industrial segment customers centers on knowledge of our customers' processes, application expertise and our diverse offering of products and services. 

INFRASTRUCTURE &#32;In the Infrastructure segment, we focus on customers in the energy and earthworks market sectors who support primary industries such as oil and gas, power generation and chemicals; underground, surface and hard-rock mining; highway construction and road maintenance; and process industries such as food and beverage. Our success is determined by our associates gaining an in-depth understanding of our customers&#8217; engineering and development needs, to be able to offer complete system solutions and high-performance capabilities to optimize and add value to their operations. 

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS &#32;During 2016 , we generated 57 percent &#32;of our sales in markets outside of the United States of America (U.S.), with principal international operations in Western Europe, Asia and Canada. In addition, we operate additional manufacturing and distribution facilities in Israel, Latin America and South Africa, while serving customers through sales offices, agents and distributors in Eastern Europe and other parts of the world. While geographic diversification helps to minimize the sales and earnings impact of respective demand changes in any one particular region, our international operations are subject to normal risks of doing business globally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in social, political and economic environments. 

Our international assets and sales are presented in Note 20 of the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements, set forth in Item 8 and are incorporated herein by reference. Further information about the effects and risks of currency exchange rates is presented in the Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk section, as set forth in Item 7A of this annual report on Form 10-K (Item 7A). 

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS &#32;In fiscal 2016 &#32;we continued to experience the effects of the further deterioration in customer demand in many of our end markets and certain geographies. Some areas of industrial production declined, in addition to further reductions in mining and oil and gas activity. In addition to restructuring actions, we took temporary cost reductions in various areas of the business. 

In 2016 , restructuring programs delivered incremental benefits of approximately $44 million. We substantially completed Phase 1 of restructuring programs. Estimated ongoing annualized savings for this phase is $40-$45 million. The company has identified additional actions to adjust the company's cost structure. These initiatives are expected to improve the alignment of our cost structure with the current operating environment through rationalization of three additional manufacturing facilities and through headcount reductions. Restructuring programs not yet completed are currently anticipated to deliver annual ongoing pre-tax savings of $75 million to $90 million once fully implemented. 

Additionally, we have embarked on a workforce reduction initiative which should reduce employment by 1,000 with expected costs of $80-$95 million, expected to result in an annual run rate savings of $100-$110 million by fiscal year-end 2017. Consistent with our fix-in-place manufacturing strategy, we believe that there are further cost improvements possible through investments in automation and efficiency programs which are expected to yield savings of several hundred million dollars over the next three years. 

We are implementing a more robust sales and marketing strategy while continuing to work on the cost structure, serving our customers and preserving our competitive strengths. At the same time, we continue to focus on cash flow and liquidity. Our operating flexibility was enhanced with an amendment to our $600 million five-year, multi-currency, revolving credit facility that extends to April 2021. Further discussion and analysis of the development in our business is set forth in MD&#38;A. 

ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES During the year ended June 30, 2016 , we completed the sale of non-core businesses as defined in Note 4 of the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements for an aggregate price of $56.1 million , net of cash. The pre-tax net loss on divestiture during the year ended June 30, 2016 &#32;is $131.5 million , of which $127.9 million &#32;and $3.6 million &#32;were recorded in the Infrastructure and Industrial segments, respectively. 

We continue to evaluate new opportunities for the expansion of existing product lines into new market areas where appropriate. We also continue to evaluate opportunities for the introduction of new and/or complementary product offerings into new and/or existing market areas where appropriate. Rather than evaluating potential acquisitions in the near term, we expect to continue to grow our business and further enhance our market position through the investment opportunities that exist within our core businesses. 

We are currently exploring strategic alternatives for a remaining non-core Infrastructure business. The estimated net book value of the business is approximately $30 million as of June 30, 2016 . As the strategic direction has not yet been determined for this business, the business is classified as held and used, and the Company cannot determine if additional impairment charges will be incurred. 

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION &#32;To market our products, we maintain two premium brands: Kennametal&#174; and WIDIA&#174;. We sell and market our products through the following sales channels: (i) a direct sales force; (ii) a network of independent distributors and sales agents in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and other regions around the world; (iii) integrated supply channels; and (iv) via the internet. Application engineers and technicians are critical to the sales process and directly assist our customers with specified product design, selection, application and support. 

RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES &#32;Our major metallurgical raw materials consist of ore concentrates, compounds and secondary materials containing tungsten, tantalum, titanium, niobium and cobalt. Although an adequate supply of these raw materials currently exists, our major sources for raw materials are located abroad and prices fluctuate at times. We have entered into extended raw material supply agreements and will implement product price increases as deemed necessary to mitigate rising costs. For these reasons, we exercise great care in selecting, purchasing and managing availability of raw materials. We also purchase steel bars and forgings for making toolholders and other tool parts, as well as for producing rotary cutting tools and accessories. We obtain products purchased for use in manufacturing processes and for resale from thousands of suppliers located in the U.S. and abroad. Our internal capabilities help mitigate our reliance on third parties for raw materials as they provide access to additional sources of raw materials and offer tungsten carbide recycling capabilities. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT &#32;Our product development efforts focus on providing solutions to our customers&#8217; manufacturing challenges and productivity requirements. Our product development program provides discipline and focus for the product development process by establishing &#8220;gateways,&#8221; or sequential tests, during the development process to remove inefficiencies and accelerate improvements. This program speeds and streamlines development into a series of actions and decision points, combining efforts and resources to produce new and enhanced products faster. This program is designed to assure a strong link between customer requirements and corporate strategy, and to enable us to gain full benefit from our investment in new product development. 

We hold a number of patents and trademarks which, in the aggregate, are material to the operation of our businesses. 

Research and development expenses included in operating expense totaled $39.4 million , $45.1 million &#32;and $44.0 million &#32;in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

SEASONALITY &#32;Our business is affected by seasonal variations to varying degrees by traditional summer vacation shutdowns of customers&#8217; plants and holiday shutdowns that affect our sales levels during the first and second quarters of our fiscal year. 

BACKLOG &#32;Our backlog of orders generally is not significant to our operations. 

COMPETITION &#32;As one of the world&#8217;s leading producers of engineered cemented carbide products and specialty wear-resistant components and coating solutions, we maintain a leading competitive position in major markets worldwide. We continually strengthen our competitive position by developing new and innovative metalworking and earth cutting products and services, innovative surface and wear solutions and innovative products for mining, construction and road milling applications to name a few. We actively compete in the sale of all our products with several large global competitors and with many smaller niche businesses offering various capabilities to customers around the world. While several of our competitors are divisions of larger corporations, our industry remains largely fragmented, containing several hundred fabricators, toolmakers and niche specialty coating businesses. Many of our competitors operate relatively small facilities, producing a limited selection of tools while buying cemented tungsten carbide components from original producers of cemented tungsten carbide products, including Kennametal. We also supply coating solutions and other engineered wear-resistant products to both larger corporations and smaller niche businesses. Given the fragmentation, opportunities for consolidation exist from both U.S.-based and internationally-based firms, as well as among thousands of industrial supply distributors. 

The principal competitive differentiators in our businesses include customer focused technical application and support, custom and standard product innovation, product performance, quality and availability, as well as service, pricing and productivity delivered ascribed to our brands. We derive competitive advantage from our premium brand positions, global presence, application expertise and ability to address unique customer needs with new and improved tools, innovative surface and wear solutions, highly engineered components, consistent quality, traditional and digital customer service and technical assistance capabilities, state-of-the-art manufacturing and multiple sales channels. With these strengths, we are able to sell products based on the value-added productivity we deliver to our customers, rather than competing on price. 

REGULATION &#32;From time to time, we are a party to legal claims and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, which may relate to our operations or assets, including real, tangible, or intellectual property. While we currently believe that the amount of ultimate liability, if any, with respect to these actions will not materially affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, the ultimate outcome of any litigation is uncertain. Were an unfavorable outcome to occur or if protracted litigation were to ensue, the impact could be material to us. 

Compliance with government laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials or pollutants into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position for the years covered by this report, nor is such compliance expected to have a material effect in the future. 

Among other environmental laws, we are subject to the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (Superfund), under which we have been designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) as a potentially responsible party (PRP) with respect to environmental remedial costs at certain Superfund sites. We have evaluated our claims and liabilities associated with these Superfund sites based upon best currently available information. We believe our environmental accruals are adequate to cover our portion of the environmental remedial costs at the Superfund sites where we have been designated a PRP, to the extent these expenses are probable and reasonably estimable. 

Reserves for other potential environmental issues at June 30, 2016 &#32;and 2015 &#32;were $12.5 million &#32;and $12.6 million , respectively. The reserves that we have established for environmental liabilities represent our best current estimate of the costs of addressing all identified environmental situations, based on our review of currently available evidence, and take into consideration our prior experience in remediation and that of other companies, as well as public information released by the USEPA, other governmental agencies, and by the PRP groups in which we are participating. Although the reserves currently appear to be sufficient to cover these environmental liabilities, there are uncertainties associated with environmental liabilities, and we can give no assurance that our estimate of any environmental liability will not increase or decrease in the future. The reserved and unreserved liabilities for all environmental concerns could change substantially due to factors such as the nature and extent of contamination, changes in remedial requirements, technological changes, discovery of new information, the financial strength of other PRPs, the identification of new PRPs and the involvement of and direction taken by the U.S. government on these matters. 

We maintain a Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Department to monitor compliance with environmental regulations and to oversee remediation activities. In addition, we have designated EHS coordinators who are responsible for each of our manufacturing facilities. Our financial management team periodically meets with members of the Corporate EHS Department and the Corporate Legal Department to review and evaluate the status of environmental projects and contingencies. On a quarterly basis, we review financial provisions and reserves for environmental contingencies and adjust these reserves when appropriate. 

EMPLOYEES &#32;We employed approximately 11,200 people at June 30, 2016 , of which approximately 4,200 were located in the U.S. and 7,000 in other parts of the world, principally Europe, Asia Pacific and India. At June 30, 2016 , approximately 3,900 of the above employees were represented by labor unions. We consider our labor relations to be generally good. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION &#32;Our Internet address is www.kennametal.com. On the SEC Filings page of our Web Site, which is accessible under the "About Us" tab, under Investor Relations, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our annual report on Form 10-K, our annual proxy statement, our annual conflict minerals disclosure and report on Form SD, our annual reports on Form 11-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Our SEC Filings page of our Web Site also includes Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act. All filings posted on our SEC Filings page of our Web Site are available to be viewed on the Web page free of charge. On the Corporate Governance page of our Web Site, which is under the "About Us" tab, under Investor Relations, we post the following charters and guidelines: Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee Charter, Kennametal Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines and Kennametal Inc. Stock Ownership Guidelines. On the Ethics and Compliance page of our Web Site, which is under the "About Us" tab, under Company Profile, we post our Code of Conduct and our Conflict Minerals Statement. All charters and guidelines posted on our Web pages are available to be viewed on our Web page free of charge. Information contained on our Web site is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC. Copies of this annual report on Form 10-K and those items disclosed on the Corporate Governance and Ethics and Compliance pages of our Web Site are available without charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, Kelly Boyer, Kennametal Inc., 600 Grant Street, Suite 5100, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219-2706. 

