 Item 1. Business 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as &#147;may&#148;, &#147;should&#148;, &#147;expects&#148;, &#147;plans&#148;, &#147;anticipates&#148;, &#147;believes&#148;, &#147;estimates&#148;, &#147;predicts&#148;, &#147;potential&#148; or &#147;continue&#148; or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the risks in the section entitled &#147;Risk Factors&#148; that may cause our or our industry&#146;s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results.

Our consolidated financial statements are stated in United States Dollars (US$) and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

In this annual report, unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars and all references to &#147;common shares&#148; refer to the shares in our common stock. References to &#147;CAD$&#148; refers to Canadian dollars. 

As used in this current report and unless otherwise indicated, the terms "we", "us", "our" and "our company" mean Lexaria Bioscience Corp., our wholly owned subsidiary, Lexaria CanPharm Corp., a Canadian corporation, and our 51% owned subsidiary PoViva Tea, LLC (&#147;PoViva"), an entity incorporated in the state of Nevada, unless otherwise stated. 

General and Historical Overview of Our Business 

We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on December 9, 2004. We were an exploration and development oil and gas company engaged in the exploration for and development of petroleum and natural gas in North America from the date of incorporation until 2014. We owned various oil and gas interests in Mississippi and Oklahoma, and produced cash flow from them. At various times we issued equity to raise capital to acquire or sustain our interests and operations, and entered various debt agreements for the same reasons. In December 2014, we completed the sale of our last remaining oil and gas assets for total consideration of $1,400,000 and repaid all outstanding loans and debts associated with our tenure in the oil and gas business.

In 2014, we submitted an application to enter the legal medical marijuana business in Canada and also launched a hemp oil-based food supplement company in the USA.

We entered into a joint venture agreement with Enertopia Corp. to source opportunities in the medical marijuana business. We also entered into a separate joint venture agreement with Enertopia Corp. for a prospective medical marijuana business under the Marijuana for Medical Purposes Regulations (&#147;MMPR&#148;). Our company was to pay 55% of all costs to earn a 49% net ownership interest in the business and Enertopia was to pay 45% of all costs to earn a 51% ownership interest in the business. The joint venture identified a production location in Burlington, Ontario and received municipal approval for the site in July, 2014.

On June 26, 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement with Enertopia Corp. and Shaxon Enterprises Ltd. to sell our 49% interest in the Burlington Joint Venture and the MMPR application number 10MMPR0610. Pursuant to the agreement, the joint venture received a non-refundable $10,000 deposit and is entitled to receive up to $1,500,000 in milestone payments upon the Burlington facility becoming licensed under the MMPR. All payments made pursuant to the agreement would be divided 51% to Enertopia Corp. and 49% to our Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we can neither guarantee nor provide a meaningful time estimate regarding the grant of a production license for the Burlington facility. 

Our food sciences activities include the development of our proprietary nutrient infusion technologies for the production of superfoods, and the production of enhanced food products under our two consumer product brands, ViPova&#153; and Lexaria Energy. Our patented lipid nutrient infusion technology is believed to enable higher bioavailability rates for CBD; THC; NSAIDs; Nicotine and other molecules than is possible without lipophilic enhancement technology. This can allow for lower overall dosing requirements and/or higher effectiveness in active molecule delivery. Lexaria has caused to be filed several patent pending applications with the US Patent Office, and also internationally under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT). On October 26, 2016, the USPTO issued U.S. Patent No. 9,474,725, Cannabinoid Infused Food and Beverage Compositions and Methods of Use Thereof, pertaining to Lexaria&#146;s method of improving bioavailability and taste of certain cannabinoid lipophilic active agents in food products. Lexaria hopes to reduce other common but less healthy ingestion methods such as smoking as it embraces the benefits of public health.

As at August 31, 2016, we only had one reporatable segment, being the development and usage, including licensing of our proprietary nutrient infusion technology. 

We maintain our registered agent's office and our U.S. business office at Nevada Agency and Transfer Company, 50 West Liberty, Suite 880, Reno, Nevada 89501. Our telephone number is (755) 322-0626. 

The address of our principal executive office is 156 Valleyview Rd, Kelowna BC Canada V1X3M4. We have administrative functions located in Vancouver, British Columbia and Phoenix, Arizona.

Effective at the opening of trading on October 28, 2009, our shares of common stock began trading on the Canadian Securities Exchange (formerly, Canadian National Stock Exchange) under the trading symbol &#147;LXX&#148;. 

Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol "LXRP" and on the Canadian Securities Exchange under the symbol &#147;LXX&#148;. 

Our Current Business 

Our company&#146;s business plan is currently focused in the USA, on the introduction of hemp oil-infused food products extracted from Agricultural Hemp and on the development of strategic partnerships with licensees for our patented technology in exchange for up front and/or staged licensing fees over time. Secondarily and more generally, we continue to investigate opportunities in the US legal regulated medical marijuana sector where possible; to investigate expansions and additions to our intellectual property portfolio; and, to search for additional opportunities in alternative health sectors. This includes the acquisition or development of intellectual property if and when we believe it advisable to do so. We announced issuance of our first patent by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on October 26, 2016 and we are seeking additional patent protection for what we believe to be a unique process for the nutritional delivery of certain molecules such as THC, CBD, Nicotine, NSAIDs, and Vitamins. To achieve sustainable and profitable growth, our company intends to control the timing and costs of our projects wherever possible.

During the past fiscal year we experienced the following significant corporate developments: 

On September 16, 2015, the Company&#146;s Board appointed Mr. Ted McKechnie as a Director of the Company. Upon Mr. McKechnie&#146;s appointment the Company issued to him, 110,000 common shares of the Company valued at $19,000. The Company also granted 100,000 stock options to Mr. Ted McKechnie. The exercise price of the stock options is $0.17 and they expire on September 16, 2020. The number of shares and stock options were updated pursuant to the forward stock split on December 16, 2015, as described below. 

On October 6, 2015 we nnounced that our Lexaria Energy10 Protein Bar would be in stock and available for sale on November 3, 2015. On November 3, 2015, the Company announced the Lexaria Energy10 Protein Bars were in stock and available for sale.

On October 8, 2015, the Company announced product updates for both coffee and hot chocolate. Lexaria had also determined that it would soon make ViPova&#153; and Lexaria Energy products available for sale into the United Kingdom, due to a favorable regulatory environment and to increased consumer demand. Initially, sales would be made through the online store, but it also indicated that discussions were also underway to enable local sales delivered from within the United Kingdom. 

On November 17, 2015, the Company announced selling out of the Lexaria Energy Protein Bars unveiled at three investment and business trade show conferences held in Las Vegas.

On November 18, 2015, the Company announced its Board of Directors approved a forward stock split of 1.1 new shares for every existing common share held. Upon effect of the forward stock split our authorized capital increased to 220,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 and our issued and outstanding shares increased from 39,952,984 to 43,948,282 shares of common stock, with a par value of $0.001. The reverse stock split was reviewed by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") and the Canadian Securities Exchange ("CSE") and was approved for filing with an effective date of December 16, 2015. The forward split became effective with the OTC Markets at the opening of trading on December 16, 205 under the symbol &#147;LXRPD&#148;. The "D" was placed on our ticker symbol for 20 business days and subsequently removed. Our new CUSIP number is 52886N307. 

On December 10, 2015, Lexaria closed a private placement by issuing 550,000 units at a price of $0.18 per unit for gross proceeds of $90,000. Each unit consisted of one common share of the Company and one-half, transferable share purchase warrant. Each full warrant is exercisable into one further share at a price of $0.30 per share for a period of 24 months following closing. A cash finders&#146; fee for $2,520 was paid to Leede Financial Markets Ltd.; and 14,000 broker warrants with an exercise price of $0.30 for a period of 24 months were also issued to Leede Financial Markets Ltd. The number of common shares and share purchase warrants was updated as a result of the forward stock split on December 16, 2015. 

On December 14, 2015, Lexaria signed an Investor Relations contract with Radius Consulting Inc. for a 45-day term. Radius received $2,500 and 50,000 common shares valued at $9,500. Such common shares were adjusted for the forward stock split closing on December 16, 2015. 

On January 13, 2016, the Company announced it has commissioned a study of nitric oxide levels in humans, as a biomarker for absorption of cannabidiol. 

On January 15, 2016, the Company announced BUYINS.NET was consulting to Lexaria Corp to Surveil Short Sellers and Market Makers. 

On January 20, 2016, the Company announced study data from human subjects demonstrating significant elevation of systemic nitric oxide levels as a surrogate biomarker for cannabidiol (CBD) bioabsorption. 

On January 28, 2016, the Company announced it signed a distribution agreement with Telluride Coffee. 

On February 19, 2016, the Company announced Lexaria would be proceeding with a name change at its Annual General Meeting expected to be held March 23, 2016; the Company proposed to change its name to Lexaria Bioscience Corp. 

On March 8, 2016, the Company announced the resignation of Thomas Ihrke as VP of US Operations of Lexaria Corp. 

On March 8, 2016, the Company closed private placement offering of a convertible debenture in the aggregate amount of $45,000. The convertible debenture matures on August 31, 2020 with an interest rate of 10% per annum (on a simple basis) and is convertible at (i) $0.12 per share at any time prior to August 31, 2016 (ii) $0.15 per share at any time prior to August 31, 2017; (iii) $0.20 per share at any time prior to August 31, 2018 or, at the sole option of the holder, a price equal to a 20% discount to the 10-day average closing price of the shares prior to the date of conversion (the &#147;Average Price&#148;) provided that the Average Price is less than $0.20 and provided further that the conversion price shall not be less than $0.15; (iv) $0.25 per share at any time prior to August 31, 2019 or, at the sole option of the holder, the Average Price provided that the Average Price is less than $0.25 and provided further that the conversion price shall not be less than $0.15; and (v) $0.30 per share at any time prior to August 31, 2020 or, at the sole option of the holder, the Average Price provided that the Average Price is less than $0.30 and provided further that the conversion price shall not be less than $0.15.

On April 15, 2016, pursuant to the consulting agreement with Mr. John Docherty, the Company issued 210,000 common shares for services rendered as the President of the Company. We also issued 300,000 stock options, expiring on April 15, 2021, with an exercise price of $0.11 per share, to Mr. Docherty, and agreed to pay him cash compensation of US$4,000. 

On April 15, 2016, the Company closed a private placement of 750,000 units at a price of $0.08 per unit for gross proceeds of $60,000. Each unit consisted of one common share of the Company and one non-transferrable share purchase warrant, entitling the holder to purchase one additional common share in the capital of the Company for a period of 18 months at an exercise price of $0.15 per share. The Company also issued 8,750 broker warrants to Haywood Securities Ltd. The broker warrants have a term of 18 months and are each exercisable into one common share of the Company at a price of $0.15. 

Effective April 29, 2016, Ms. Bal Bhullar resigned as CFO and a director of the Company to pursue other opportunities. Mr. Chris Bunka was appointed as interim CFO and Mr. John Docherty, the president of Lexaria, was appointed a director of the Company. 

On May 14, 2016, the Company entered into a licensing agreement with an arm&#146;s length party allowing the licensee, for a two-year period, to utilize the Company&#146;s technology to create, test, manufacture, and sell marijuana-infused consumable and/or topical products, in the state of Colorado, with an option of extending the terms of the licensing agreement to Washington, Oregon, and California. In addition to the granting of the license, the Company is required to provide support services to the licensee in connection with the use of the Company&#146;s technology during the term of the licensing agreement. The licensing agreement was the first contracted, predictable, and significant revenue stream to be achieved as a direct result of Lexaria&#146;s technological advantage in the marketplace. Under the terms of the licensing agreement, the licensee would pay a minimum of $122,000 in pre-defined staged payments to Lexaria over the initial two-year term. As per the licensing agreement, if the licensee were to introduce certain product lines utilizing Lexaria&#146;s technology in each of the four states contemplated, Lexaria could expect to receive a maximum of $1,064,000 over approximately 3.5 years, and the licensee would enjoy semi-exclusivity to introduce its products in each of those states. 

On June 6, 2016, the Company issued 25,000 stock options to a consultant of the Company vesting immediately, with an exercise price of $0.14 per share and expiring on June 3, 2021. 

On June 6, 2016, the Company engaged the marketing and investor relations services of Frontier Merchant Capital Group (&#147;Frontier&#148;) for a period of one year. Lexaria will pay CAD$6,000 per month and issued 300,000 stock options with an exercise price of $0.14, vesting immediately, for this 12-month period. 

On June 6, 2016, a Company closed a private placement of 700,000 units priced at $0.11 per unit for gross proceeds of $77,000. Each unit consists of one common share of the Company and one-half of a non-transferrable share purchase warrant, with each warrant entitling the holder to purchase one additional common share of the Company for a period of three years, at a purchase price of $0.14 per share. 

Effective July 1, 2016, the Company agreed to pay a monthly stipend of US$4,000 to Director Ted McKechnie to reflect his commitment to the Company. 

On July 12, 2016, the Company announced that it received a Notice of Allowance from the USPTO for one of its patent applications. The Notice of Allowance concluded the substantive examination of US Patent Application Serial No. 14/735,844 by the USPTO and indicated that issuance of a US patent would follow after remaining administrative processes were completed.

On July 21, 2016, the Company announced it entered into two agreements; first with PPMT Strategic Group, Inc, a strategic consulting group, with capabilities that include, Mergers &#38; Acquisitions advisory services, Sales and Marketing, Industry Partnering, Compliance and Executive CFO services, the second with Terra Nova Capital Partners, Inc, a boutique investment and merchant banking firm. PPMT received 250,000 restricted common shares as initial payment under the agreement. PPMT will receive 250,000 warrants to purchase common shares each month until the end of the agreement, with a fixed floor price and otherwise subject to normal regulatory conditions. 

On July 25, 2016, the Company announced it entered into a $50,000 loan agreement for 15 months, with an interest-free holiday for the first 3 months; if the loan is repaid within 3 months no interest will be due. For the final 12 months of the term, Lexaria will pay 8% simple interest. This secured loan is not convertible. The loan is provided by CAB Financial Services Ltd, which is a private holding company wholly-owned by the CEO of the Company. 

On August 10, 2016, the Company announced it entered a letter of intent (LOI) to license its proprietary technology to CBDM LLC for the development and sale of a range of marijuana oil infused products in a potentially national-scale roll-out to Indian reservations across America and certain other U.S. territories. 

On August 11, 2016, the Company announced it closed a private placement equity financing for 1,558,525 equity units priced at $0.06; each equity unit consisting of one common share of the Company and one non-transferable share purchase warrant, each warrant entitling the holder to purchase one additional common share of the Company for a period of two years from the date of issuance, at a purchase price of US$0.14; in order to raise gross proceeds of $93,512. The Company also announced an enhanced marketing services agreement with Frontier Merchant Captial Group at a cost of US$35,932 

On August 31, 2016, the Company announced it has entered a new letter of intent (LOI) to license its proprietary absorption and palatability enhancing technology for cannabinoids and other bioactive substances. The potential licensee is one of America&#146;s most respected and well-known brands in the cannabis infused products market, active in California and other U.S. states. The identity of the potential licensee will remain undisclosed pending further developments. 

On August 31, 2016, the Company announced it has closed a private placement equity financing for 3,266,666 equity units priced at $0.06; each equity unit consisting of one common share of the Company and one non-transferable share purchase warrant, each warrant entitling the holder to purchase one additional common share of the Company for a period of two years from the date of issuance, at a purchase price of $0.14 per share; in order to raise gross proceeds of $196,000, of which $93,500 was collected during September and October 2016. Placement fees of $1,200 were paid and 50,000 broker warrants issued in connection with this tranche of the private placement. 

We experienced the following significant corporate developments subsequent to August 31, 2016 

On September 8th, 2016, the Company announced signing new definitive technology licensing and private label agreements. Lexaria will earn a pre-defined premium to costs on all raw ingredient sourcing and manufacturing, and will further earn a pre-defined royalty rate on all gross product sales revenues earned by Care Limited. The agreement is for an initial term of 5 years.

On October 11, 2016, the Company granted 250,000 stock options to a consultant with a strike price of $0.14 per share, and expiry term of two years.

On October 11, 2016, pursuant to its agreement with Docherty Management Ltd., the Company issued 252,000 restricted common shares and cash compensation of $6,240. 

On October 11, 2016, the Company issued 750,000 warrants with an exercise price of $0.14 per share and valid for five years, in return for consulting services provided in August, September, and October.

On October 11, 2016, the Company reached an agreement with a director to settle the outstanding amount pursuant to a marketing agreement with him, through issuance of common shares of the Company. To settle the outstanding amount of $16,000 for four months to October 31, 2016, the Company issued 114,286 shares of its common stock at a value of $0.14 per share. 

On October 16, 2016, the Company received $12,500 from exercise of 55,000 stock options. 

On October 26, 2016, the Company announced the USPTO issued U.S. Patent No. 9,474,725, Cannabinoid Infused Food and Beverage Compositions and Methods of Use Thereof, pertaining to Lexaria&#146;s method of improving bioavailability and taste of certain cannabinoid lipophilic active agents in food products. 

On November 1, 2016, the Company issued 56,250 shares of its common stock in settlement of $9,000, recognized within accounts payable and accrued liabilities as at August 31, 2016. 

On November 1, 2016, the Company received $37,505 from exercise of 165,000 share purchase warrants. 

On November 16, 2016, the Company received $50,003 from exercise of 220,000 share purchase warrants. 

On November 21, 2016, the Company received $50,000 from exercise of 220,000 share purchase warrants. 

On November 22, 2016, the Company signed a Memorandum of Understanding with NeutrisSci International Inc. (&#147;Neutrisci&#148;) for forming a 50/50 joint venture to develop, produce, and sell a line of healthy edible cannabinoid products using Lexaria&#146;s patented technology and Neutrisci&#146;s proprietary pterostilbene tablet formula and international distribution network. The joint venture expects to commercialize any newly created cannabinoid edible products through distribution programs and existing strategic partners. 

Food Science and Technology 

Lexaria is a food sciences company focused on the delivery of cannabinoid compounds procured from legal, agricultural hemp, through gourmet foods based upon its proprietary infusion technologies. Lexaria is focusing its capital and management time on its pursuit of intellectual property, technology licensing opportunities, and an expanding portfolio of patent pending applications. The Company introduced an expanding variety of hemp oil-fortified consumer food products throughout 2015. From January 2015 to December 2015, we introduced seven (7) flavors of teas; hot chocolate; coffee, and two (2) flavors of protein energy bars &#150; all utilizing our patent pending technology for the more efficient delivery of hemp oil infused within those food products. 

On November 11, 2014, our Company acquired 51% of PoViva Tea LLC and executed an operating agreement to develop a business of legally producing, manufacturing, importing/exporting, testing, researching and developing, a line of hemp oil with cannabidiol-infused teas, drinks and foods. Lexaria oversees all aspects of the business including, but not limited to, production, product quality, licensing, testing, product legality, accounting, marketing, capital investment, capital raising, sales, branding, advertising and fulfillment. Pursuant to the agreement, there is a Management Committee, whereby there are two representatives from Lexaria and one of the founding members of PoViva.

In the production of the products, for each batch of hemp oil purchased as a raw material to be used in ViPova&#153; -branded products, we assess if the product inputs and the completed products comply with all applicable food and drug laws, and that the inputs and the finished products meet all applicable legal and quality standards including and as it relates to hemp oil content; THC content; molds and mildews; heavy metals; and may measure additional components.

The US Federal government, through the US Department of Health and Human Services, owns US Patent #6630507, which among other things, claims that 

&#147;Cannabinoids have been found to have antioxidant properties, unrelated to NMDA receptor antagonism. This new found property makes cannabinoids useful in the treatment and prophylaxis of wide variety of oxidation associated diseases, such as ischemic, age-related, inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. The cannabinoids are found to have particular application as neuroprotectants, for example in limiting neurological damage following ischemic insults, such as stroke and trauma, or in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and HIV dementia.&#148; 

For reference, cannabinoids are compounds that affect cannabinoid receptors located on many human cells. CB1 receptors are widely found within the human brain; and CB2 receptors are found with the human immune system and have been linked to anti-inflammatory and other responses. 

Despite independent scientific findings in many locations around the world, some regulatory agencies do not officially recognize that a human endocannabinoid system exists. 

Eighty-five different cannabinoids have been isolated from the cannabis plant, most of which do not have psychoactive properties. One that does have psychoactive properties is tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). Endocannabinoids are produced naturally in the human body while phytocannabinoids are produced in several plant species, most abundantly in the Cannabis plant. 

Cannabidiol is one of the major phytocannabinoid forms of cannabinoids, contributing more than 35% of the extracts from the cannabis plant resin. Cannabidiol occurs naturally in other plant species beyond cannabis. For example, the most widely acknowledged alternative source of phytocannabinoid is in the better understood Echinacea species, in widespread use as a dietary supplement. Most phytocannabinoids are virtually insoluble in water but are soluble in lipids and alcohol. 

The Alternative Health sector is large and growing. A long term Medical Expenditure Panel Survey was conducted from 2002 until 2008 with at least 29,370 subjects asked repeatedly if they had seen any kind of health care practitioner in the previous six months. The survey recorded whether the health care provider was a &#147;complementary and alternative medicine care professional,&#148; including &#147;homeopathic, naturopathic, or herbalist.&#148;

Between 5.3% and 5.8% of the survey group at any one time reported that they had seen a complementary or alternative medicine provider. Based on the US population of ~319,000,000, this suggests between 16.9 million and 18.5 million Americans are seeking an alternative health care professional at any given time. 

Meanwhile the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in an April 2011 NCHS Data Brief, reported that more than 50% of the population uses dietary supplements of one kind or another. Detailed findings from that report included: 

Use of dietary supplements is common among the U.S. adult population. Over 40% used supplements in 1988&#150;1994, and over one-half in 2003&#150;2006. 

Multivitamins/multiminerals are the most commonly used dietary supplements, with approximately 40% of men and women reporting use during 2003&#150;2006. 

Use of supplemental calcium increased from 28% during 1988&#150;1994 to 61% during 2003&#150;2006 among women aged 60 and over. 

Status of operations 

More than 150 million Americans drink tea every day, amounting to some 79 billion servings of tea in America every year. Our launch of ViPova&#153; Tea brand is meant to tap into this existing demand. Part of our corporate strategy is to build national brands through products that large groups of potential customers are already familiar and comfortable with.

PoViva Tea LLC has filed patents pending to bind active hemp oil ingredients with a lipid, potentially allowing for more efficient and comforting delivery of the CBD. 

We began producing cash flows from our products in January 2015; focused on the immediate opportunities in the CBD-sectors derived from hemp oil that is federally legal. Cannabinoids have been found by many researchers to have antioxidant properties and Lexaria plans to use the patented process it has acquired with ViPova&#153; teas, to infuse CBD&#146;s into a number of popular food and beverages.

Lexaria has launched a line of premium products, always relying on our patented hemp oil-infusion process, to bring hemp oil into the mainstream. Because hemp oil does not have psychoactive properties we expect our products to appeal to the widest possible customer base. Initially we will focus our sales efforts across the continental USA. Some studies have found that 3% of the Canadian population regularly consumes hemp food products, while 1% of the American population regularly consumes hemp food products. We believe the consumption of hemp based food products offers exceptional growth possibilities. 

According to Nutrition Business Journal, the Organic Food sector was a $246 billion industry in the USA during 2014, while Dietary Supplements was a $34.6 billion industry. According to Arcview, Legal Cannabis was a $4.7 billion US industry in 2015 but is clearly a much smaller industry sector than the more established food sectors. Lexaria has not yet determined whether our hemp oil-infused products will be accepted into any or all three of these particular sectors. 

Lexaria commissioned three new websites in 2015 &#150; one for ViPova&#153; -branded food products, another for a new Lexaria corporate website, and a third for Lexaria Energy branded food products - which were completed throughout 2015. All the sites are in operation and the two food products websites allow customers to place orders and interact with normal e-commerce capabilities. The majority of our product sales have taken place through these websites. A contracted national distribution center ensures rapid and accurate fulfillment of all orders. A 1-800 ordering center has also been placed into operation.

Lexaria is in the process of launching the &#147;Lexaria Energy&#148; brand that is 100% owned by the Company. Under this brand, the Company plans to develop hemp oil-infused food products for people with active lifestyles, such as protein bars, protein shakes and other similar products. A protein bar has gone into production and is available for sale under two different recipes and flavors. The Lexaria Energy brand utilizes the same patented infusion process across its product line. 

Through the November 2014 acquisition of 51% of Poviva Teas LLC, Lexaria acquired control of certain patents pending with the United States Patent Office. Lexaria has worked to broaden the patents and extend their utility to molecules other than those originally named. 

On June 11, 2015, Lexaria initiated the simultaneous filing of a U.S. utility patent application and an International patent application under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) procedure, both at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (&#147;USPTO&#148;). These applications follow the Company&#146;s 2014 and 2015 family of provisional patent application filings in the U.S. and serve two additional broad purposes: 

&#160; 1) Lexaria is seeking protection of its intellectual property under international treaties. To this end Lexaria has filed for PCT patent application protection. There are 148 countries that are signatories to the Patent Cooperation Treaty, including such major markets as Canada, China, India, much of Europe and the Middle East, the United Kingdom and Japan among others.

&#160; 2) Lexaria believes its lipid infusion technology has applications beyond the delivery of just cannabinoids. Based on further formulation testing, Lexaria has included additional lipophilic molecules that may be delivered via food and beverage formats utilizing its technology, widely encompassing three major new market opportunities for the Company: Nicotine; Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatories (NSAIDs); and Vitamins.

On October 26, 2016, the USPTO issued U.S Patent No. 9474725, Cannabinoid Infused Food and Beverage Compositions and Methods of Use Thereof, pertaining to our method of improving bioavailability and taste of certain cannabinoid lipophilic active agents in food products. This is the Company&#146;s first patent granted and has a publish date of October 27, 2016 and protects our technology for twenty year. 

International patent protection 

When Lexaria first began examining the legal medical cannabis market in 2013, and entered the market in 2014, the Company believed it could make an impact in perhaps both the Canadian and U.S. marketplaces. Our pursuit and development of technology has expanded our potential area of impact, both geographically and by sector. Because of the applicability of our technology to markets outside of the legal cannabis sector, we have taken the necessary steps to protect that intellectual property within larger global markets, regardless of whether they lie within the medical cannabis sector or in other unrelated sectors. 

Additional molecules 

NICOTINE. More than 99% of all nicotine that is consumed worldwide is delivered through smoking cigarettes. Approximately 6,000,000 deaths per year, worldwide, are attributed primarily to the delivery of nicotine through the act of smoking according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which also estimates that over $170 billion per year is spent just in the USA on direct medical care costs for adult smokers. 69% of U.S. adult smokers want to quit smoking and 43% of US adult smokers have attempted to quit in any twelve-month period. 

Worldwide, retail cigarette sales were worth $722 billion in 2013, with over 5.7 trillion cigarettes sold to more than 1 billion smokers.

RELEVANCE : Lexaria postulates that delivery of nicotine to satisfy current demand, utilizing our patent pending lipid-delivery technology in common food groups, could shift demand from smoking cigarettes to alternative nicotine-based food products. Since most of the adverse health outcomes of nicotine consumption are associated with the delivery method and only to a lesser degree to the actual ingestion of nicotine, there could be a vast positive community health outcome through the reduction in smoking cigarettes. Additional research and regulatory compliant investigations would need to be conducted before otherwise healthy foods such as tea, coffee or energy bar snacks containing nicotine could be introduced. Nicotine is a named molecule in the latest Lexaria patent applications. 

NSAID . Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatories are the second-largest category of pain management treatment options in the world. The global pain management market was estimated at $22 billion in 2011, with $5.4 billion of this market being served by NSAID&#146;s. The U.S. makes up over one-half of the global market. The opiods market (such as morphine) form the largest single pain management sector but are known to be associated with serious dependence and tolerance issues. 

Some of the most commonly known NSAIDs are ASA (Aspirin), Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and Acetaminophen (Tylenol). (Acetaminophen is not accepted by all persons to be an NSAID.) Although NSAIDs are generally a safe and effective treatment method for pain, they have been associated with a number of gastrointestinal problems including dyspepsia and gastric bleeding. 

RELEVANCE : Lexaria postulates that delivery of NSAIDs through a lipid-based mechanism could provide the beneficial properties of pain relief with lessened negative gastrointestinal effects, and also potentially deliver lower dosages of active ingredients with similar pain management outcomes as current pill forms at higher dosages. ASA, Piroxicam, Diclofenac, Indomethacin, Ibuprofen, and Acetaminophen are all named molecules in the latest Lexaria patent applications. 

VITAMINS. The global vitamin and supplement market is worth $68 billion according to Euromonitor. The category is both broad and deep, comprised of many popular and some lesser known substances. Vitamins in general are thought to be an $8.5 billion annual market in the U.S. The U.S. is the largest single national market in the world, and China and Japan are the 2 nd and 3 rd largest vitamin markets. 

Vitamin E is fat soluble and can be incorporated into cell membranes which can protect them from oxidative damage. Global consumption of natural source vitamin E was 10,900 metric tons in 2013 worth $611.9 million.

RELEVANCE : Lexaria postulates that delivery of fat soluble vitamins through its patent-pending lipid-based delivery mechanism may result in less waste and lower dosages required than most current pill forms. As well, ingestion of pills is an unpleasant experience for many people so it is possible that vitamin delivery through common food groups could vastly expand market demand for this sector. Vitamin E is a named molecule in the latest Lexaria patent applications. 

On August 11, 2015, Lexaria signed a license agreement with PoViva Tea LLC for $10,000, granting Lexaria a 35-year non exclusive worldwide license to unencumbered use of PoViva Tea LLC&#146;s IP Rights, including rights of resale. This license agreement ensures Lexaria has full access to the underlying patent pending infusion technology. 

On August 24, 2015, the Company announced potential industry-changing achievements in enhanced gastro-intestinal absorption of cannabidiol (CBD) utilizing Lexaria&#146;s patented technology. The third-party testing was conducted in two phases of in vitro tests beginning in June and completed in August, 2015. 

The independent laboratory results delivered average CBD permeability of 499% of baseline permeability, compared to CBD permeability without Lexaria&#146;s technology. These results exceed Company expectations. This was assessed in a strictly controlled, in vitro experiment using a human intestinal tissue model. Samples of Lexaria&#146;s commercially available CBD-fortified ViPova&#153; black tea were administered in the model compared with concentration-matched CBD control preparations that lacked Lexaria&#146;s patented formulation and process enhancements. Lexaria believes that its in vitro findings provide compelling evidence of the intestinal absorption enhancing capabilities of its technology, based on which it is exploring opportunities to progress to more advanced, follow-on bioavailability testing in animals.

The tests also showed 325% of baseline gastro-intestinal permeability of CBD comparing Lexaria&#146;s CBD-fortified ViPova&#153; black tea to a second control of CBD and black tea combined, without Lexaria&#146;s patented formulation enhancements. This confirmed that the specialized processing undertaken by Lexaria during its manufacturing process together with its formulation enhancements, does indeed significantly improve absorption levels. 

The bioavailability of CBD (or of THC) varies greatly by delivery method. Smoking typically delivers cannabinoids at an average bioavailability rate of 30% (Huestis (2007) Chem. Biodivers. 4:1770&#150;1804; McGilveray (2005) Pain Res. Manag. 10 Suppl. A:15A &#150; 22A). By comparison, orally consumed cannabis edibles typically deliver cannabinoids at an average bioavailability rate of only 5% (Karschner et al. (2011) Clin. Chem. 57:66&#150;75).

The Company&#146;s present findings suggest that its technology may achieve a 5-fold improvement in cannabinoid absorption in edible form over that which can be achieved without its proprietary process and formulation enhancements. This conceptually supports that Lexaria&#146;s technology represents a significant breakthrough in cannabinoid delivery by approximating the high absorption levels achieved as though through administration by smoking, but without the associated negative effects on human health caused by smoking. 

The tests were completed in two phases culminating with testing using simulated intestinal fluid conditions that delivered these findings. These results were stronger than earlier iterations of the tests that did not use a simulated intestinal fluid environment and contributed to Lexaria&#146;s understanding of the mechanisms at work. For these and other reasons, Lexaria believes that bioavailability testing in animals is likely to yield even stronger absorption results in the presence of natural intestinal fluid conditions. 

CBD has been repeatedly found to provide beneficial pain relieving, anti-inflammatory, anti-anxiety, neuroprotection, anti-psychotic, and anti-convulsive effects among others. Lexaria&#146;s patent-pending technology could significantly reduce individual serving requirements for CBD to consumers. This could lead to reduced costs of consumption for consumers and increased profitability for Lexaria. 

Lexaria believes that the same technology used to enhance the absorption of CBD in the recent laboratory tests, is applicable to THC, nicotine, NSAIDs and other lipophilic compounds that are widely used today. 

On November 3, 2015, Lexaria Energy10 protein bars became available for retail sales with 2 new flavors. The Company sells Cashew Berry Date vegan bar which is optimal for pre-workout or morning use, with 10 grams of protein and a combination of dates, cherries and blueberries for energy from natural sugar sources. The 70-gram bar delivers energy for a workout or for the day to come. The Chocolate Berry Date bar is optimal for post-workout and for afternoon or evening use, or anytime one has the munchies. This 82-gram bar has 21 grams of protein and 13 grams of fiber to provide one&#146;s body with comfort and cleansing after strenuous activity.

During January 2015, Lexaria conducted a study of nitric oxide levels in humans, as a biomarker for absorption of cannabidiol, with the expectation that it would provide additional evidence of the efficient absorption of cannabidiol from Lexaria food products enhanced with hemp oil, by demonstrating the elevation of nitric oxide in the human body in response to product ingestion. 

The study data from human subjects demonstrated significant elevation of systemic nitric oxide levels as a surrogate biomarker for cannabidiol (CBD) bioabsorption in response to ingestion of Lexaria's products. This provided clinical support for the CBD bioavailability enhancing properties of Lexaria's patented technology, on the premise that bioavailable CBD is known to elevate levels of the endocannabinoid anandamide in the human body which, in turn, stimulates release of nitric oxide in the vascular system.

In summary, consuming Lexaria and ViPova&#153; food products resulted in elevated levels of nitric oxide within the body. The results of the study indicated that all Lexaria and ViPova&#153; food products elicited significant increases in salivary nitric oxide, achieving levels from 110 &#181;M to as high as 220 &#181;M in the test subjects. The beverage products generally had faster initial responses in as little as 15 minutes after product ingestion, whereas the initial responses from the protein-energy bars required 30 minutes. The faster response time with the beverage products was to be expected, given the relative ease of digesting liquids versus solids. All products sustained their maximum levels of nitric oxide detection through to the 60-minute end-points used in the study, indicating a need for additional study to determine the length of time that nitric oxide levels remain elevated following production consumption. 

The study assessed six flavors of ViPova&#153; tea (Yunan Black, Herbal Cherry Black, Earl Grey, Herbal Bengal Chai, Herbal Masala Chai and Decaf English Breakfast), ViPova&#153; Columbian Supremo Coffee, ViPova&#153; Hot Chocolate and Lexaria Energy Foods&#146; Chocolate Berry Date and Cashew Berry Date protein-energy bars. 

Six healthy human subjects (3 male and 3 female) between the ages of 22 and 65 years of age were recruited for the study. Subjects were screened for cardiovascular and allergic response to hemp products, were non-smokers and did not have any history of substance or alcohol abuse. One product was studied per day across all six subjects, with each subject consuming a full product serving size. Subjects were required to refrain from eating food or using vape products for at least 12 hours before test article administration on each day of the study. Nitric oxide levels in the test subjects were assessed using a commercially available, colorimetric test kit designed to quantify systemic nitric oxide via a detectable salivary marker. Immediately before test article administration each day, all subjects were required to demonstrate a negative baseline nitric oxide saliva test. Subjects were considered to have a negative test strip reading at a level of 20 &#181;M according to the test strip scale, and positive readings anywhere above this. Subjects performed salivary nitric oxide testing at 15, 30, 45 and 60 minutes&#146; post-consumption of each product. All subjects remained sedentary from baseline through to the completion of testing for each product. 

On January 28, 2016, Lexaria signed a distribution agreement with Telluride Coffee Roasters, LLC. 

On May 14, 2016, the Company entered into a Licensing Agreement allowing the Licensee, for a two-year period, to utilize the Company&#146;s technology to create, test, manufacture, and sell marijuana-infused consumable and/or topical products, in the state of Colorado, with an option of extending the terms of the Licensing Agreement to Washington, Oregon, and California. In addition to the granting of the license, the Company will provide support services to the Licensee in connection with the use of the Company&#146;s technology during the term of the Licensing Agreement. The Licensing Agreement is the first contracted, predictable, and significant revenue stream to be achieved as a direct result of Lexaria&#146;s technological advantage in the marketplace. Under the terms of the Licensing Agreement, the Licensee will pay a minimum of $122,000 in pre-defined staged payments to Lexaria over the initial two-year term. As per the Licensing Agreement, if the Licensee were to introduce certain product lines utilizing Lexaria&#146;s technology in each of the four states contemplated, Lexaria could expect to receive a maximum of $1,064,000 over approximately 3.5 years, and the Licensee would enjoy semi-exclusivity to introduce its products in each of those states. 

The Company does not know and cannot know whether these strategies will be successful, or if successful, how long it will take to gain consumer acceptance and customer loyalty. It can be a challenge to be successful by introducing new consumer products to a competitive retail marketplace, and we can offer no assurances that our products will be a commercial success. 

The continuation of our business interests in these sectors is dependent upon obtaining further financing, a successful programs of development, and, ultimately, achieving a profitable level of operations. The issuance of additional equity securities by us could result in a significant dilution in the equity interests of our current stockholders. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, will increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. 

There are no assurances that we will be able to obtain further funds required for our continued operations. As noted herein, we are pursuing various financing alternatives to meet our immediate and long-term financial requirements. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us when needed or, if available, that it can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not able to obtain the additional financing on a timely basis, we will be unable to conduct our operations as planned, and we will not be able to meet our other obligations as they become due. In such event, we will be forced to scale down or perhaps even cease our operations. There is significant uncertainty as to whether we can obtain additional financing. 

Our business plan does not anticipate that we will hire a large number of employees or that we will require extensive office space. We expect to be able to utilize contracted third parties for most of our production and distribution needs, instead focusing on our capital on higher value added aspects of the business such as research and development, and scientific testing. We have no current plans to build our own production facility. 

Our company relies on the business experience of our existing management, on the technical abilities of consulting experts, and on the technical and operational abilities of its operating partner companies to evaluate business opportunities. 

Competition 

The legal marijuana industry is comprised of several sub-sectors, and is legal under different guidelines in many states though it remains illegal under most federal laws. Notwithstanding, the overall sector is generally recognized to be one of the fastest growing in the USA, with state-legal revenue of over $4 billion in 2015. Independent projections and publicized reports expect revenue of $20 billion or more in 2020, both as the sector gains in credibility and acceptance, and as more and more states legalize either medical use or adult recreational use; or both. In any fast growing industry, competition is expected to be both strong and also difficult to evaluate as to the most effective competitive threats. While we are an early adopter within the cannabinoid delivery sector, there are already reports of more than 300 public companies that have claimed to be involved in the sector in some fashion; and an unknown number of private companies. Our current strategies may prove to be ineffective as the sector grows and matures, and if so, we will have to adapt quickly to changing sectoral circumstances. 

Competition in alternative health sectors and in consumer products in the USA is fierce. We expect to encounter competitive threats from existing participants in the sector and new entrants. Although PoViva Tea LLC has filed patent pending applications to protect intellectual property, there is no assurance that patents will be granted nor that other firms may not file superior patents pending. Food supplements, organic foods, and health food markets are all well established and our Company will face many challenges trying to enter these markets. 

Compliance with Government Regulation 

At least 24 States in the USA have passed some form of legislation related to that state&#146;s permission to grow, cultivate, sell or use marijuana either for medical purposes or for recreational or &#147;adult use&#148; purposes; or both. The various state legislation is not necessarily harmonious with one another, leading to potential conflicts between state laws. It is most often not legal to transport cannabis-related products across state lines. 

Lexaria does not &#147;touch the plant&#148; in any location within or outside of the USA. We comply with federal law that provides for certain exemptions for agricultural (industrial) hemp and certain byproducts to be manufactured and sold in the US. Our technology may have applications within the legal marijuana sector and we may seek to license that technology to companies that have met and comply with state regulations for the sale or distribution of cannabis related products in any particular jurisdiction.

Lexaria&#146;s patented technology may also have application in completely separate sectors such as vitamins, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories, and nicotine. We have no products nor operations in any of these sectors today. If we enter any of these sectors at any time, we will be exposed to and of necessity will have to comply with, all local, state and federal regulations in each of those sectors. As a result of the possibility of Lexaria being involved in a number of disparate business sectors, compliance with government regulations could require significant resources and expertise from our company.

Our Planned Medical Marijuana Production Operations 

On June 7, 2013 the Government of Canada implemented then-new legislation, the Marijuana for Medical Purposes Regulations (MMPR), concerning the production and sale of medical marijuana. The MMPR permited the licensing of commercial growers beginning April 1, 2014, while eliminating existing regulations permitting the production of medical marijuana on a personal-use basis. The revised regulations created conditions for a commercial industry in Canada that is responsible for medical marijuana production and distribution, by eliminating small-scale, personal-use production. Commercial growers are now able to submit applications to Health Canada for the production of medical marijuana and, if licensed, supply patients who qualify for the product at a price that would be established by market forces and at the discretion of producers. As of November 2016, 36 producers have become licensed under the latest versions of Canadian regulations. 

On June 26, 2015, we entered into a share purchase agreement with Shaxon Enterprises Ltd. and Enertopia Corp. to sell our 49% interest in our Burlington, Ontario medical marijuana project application, including the MMPR application (no. 10MMPR0610) for our proposed production facility. The Burlington MMPR license application has continued in the application process under new ownership. Pursuant to the agreement, the joint venture received a non-refundable $10,000 deposit and is entitled to receive up to $1,500,000 in milestone payments upon the Burlington facility becoming licensed under the MMPR. These monies would be split 51% to Enertopia and 49% to our Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we can neither guarantee nor provide a meaningful time estimate regarding the grant of a production license for the Burlington facility and at this time believe it may be unlikely to be awarded. 

Since June 12, 2015 the Company has had no direct involvement or ownership interest in any active or prospective operations or permit applications under the MMPR. We have no further plans at ths time to apply for a license in any jurisdiction for the production or sale of legal medical marijuana. 

Market for Medical Marijuana in Canada 

It is estimated by Health Canada that the overall market for medical marijuana in Canada under the new MMPR will be approximately $1.3 billion per year by 2024 (source: Health Canada/Canadian Broadcasting Corporation). Health Canada projects that the number of licensed users will increase to over 450,000 by 2024. Health Canada formerly sold medical marijuana, produced on contract by Prairie Plant Systems (formerly the only licensed producer in Canada), for $5 a gram. It is estimated that the price per gram under the new licensing system will average $7.60 per gram as producers set prices without interference from government (source Health Canada/Canadian Broadcasting Corporation).

Despite these estimates the medical marijuana market is relatively new and largely unproven. The adoption rate of commercial medical marijuana by qualified patients is difficult to determine but a portion (approximately 13%) of the qualified patient population is already conditioned to purchasing government contracted producers under the old system (source: Health Canada). Furthermore, we anticipate that the convenience of a wide selection of medical marijuana strains delivered directly to patients in a discrete and concealed package will be attractive. Healthcare practitioners are key stakeholders as they will be signing and providing the medical documentation needed for patients to register with commercial producers. Regulations under the MMPR are not significantly different for healthcare practitioners already familiar with the process under the former MMAR. Licensed producers are held responsible for quality of the product provided as the MMPR outlines strict rules for quality assessment and control, cleanliness, manufacturing, and pesticide use. Security and diversion to the black market remain a concern but MMPR outlines strict rules for segregation of duties and security clearances, background checks for employees and officers, tracking of product in and out of the premises, and camera surveillance. 

The Use of Marijuana for Medical Purposes (source Cantech Letter: Canada&#146;s Medical Marijuana Industry: A Top Down Look) 

The marijuana or cannabis plant, aka cannabis sativa, contains more than 80 cannabinoids, a group of chemical compounds which includes delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD). Research has shown that THC and CBD influence different regions of the central nervous system and have different effects on cannabis users [Borgwardt, Biol Psychiatry, 2008]. Most of the psychoactive effects associated with the use of cannabis are caused by THC, whereas CBD has been shown to have anti-anxiety, anti-nausea, anti-inflammatory, and anti-psychotic effects [Bergamaschi, Curr Drug Saf., 2011; Niesink, Front Psychiatry, 2013]. Cannabis smoking often leads to adverse effects such as increases and fluctuations in heart rate and blood pressure, euphoria, anxiety, and impairment of cognition and memory. Cannabis also contains a similar array of detrimental and carcinogenic compounds compared to cigarette smoke, some of which are present even at higher concentrations [Leung, J Am Board Fam Med, 2011]. 

Medical marijuana is used and has been tested in a variety of indications. In the last ten years, there have been estimated 300 individually registered trials used cannabis, THC, or CBD as the intervention. Excluding addiction, the indication that accounted for the majority (42%) of trials, medical marijuana has been tested in a wide range of indications to help patients cope with pain not only from disease itself, but also for relief from strong and sometimes toxic medication, such as chemotherapy. Neurological disorders, mental health, muscle and back problems, and inflammation (such as gastrointestinal disorders) are common indications under study. 

Current Status of our Previous Medical Marijuana Business 

Following the announcement of the MMPR in June, 2013, our management began identifying and evaluating opportunities for entry into the medical marijuana industry in Canada. We do not currently have any direct involvement in marijuana related activities in the United States or Canada.

Enertopia Joint Venture 

On May 28, 2014, our company and Enertopia Corp. entered into a definitive agreement to develop a joint business for the production, manufacture, propagation, import/export, testing, research and development of marijuana in the Province of Ontario under the MMPR. Pursuant to the Agreement, ownership, revenues, and liability related to the Joint Venture were to be divided 51% to Enertopia and 49% to Lexaria. Expenses incurred by the joint venture would be allocated 45% to Enertopia and 55% to Lexaria. Enertopia was responsible for management of the joint venture for as long as it maintained majority ownership. Lexaria and Enertopia contributed $55,000 and $45,000 to the joint venture, respectively. The joint venture identified a production location in Burlington, Ontario and received municipal approval for the site in July, 2014. We intended to engage an architect to design the production facility upon acceptance of our application. Construction was anticipated to cost approximately $3,000,000 and Lexaria would have been responsible for $1,650,000 of this cost. Unable to estimate when a production license might be granted by Health Canada, the joint venture sought assurances from Health Canada prior to commencement of construction. In the event that Health Canada did not grant a production license by May 27, 2015, the joint venture was to terminate. On August 1, 2014, through our wholly owned subsidiary Lexaria Canpharm Corp., we signed an extension to the letter of intent with 1475714 ONTARIO INC. and Thor Pharma Corp. (a subsidiary of Enertopia Corp.) to secure a 5-year lease on the Burlington, Ontario facility for our Burlington joint venture. The proposed Burlington, Ontario facility comprised of 30,000 ft&#178;, with Lexaria and Enertopia having acquired a right of first refusal for another 45,000 square feet totaling 75,000 ft&#178; to accommodate future growth. Planned production areas have 22 foot ceilings which could allow for the possibility of a 2nd mezzanine level in many areas for further expansion. The production target for the facility based on 30,000 ft&#178; (with approximately 50% devoted to production space) was approximately 10,000 kilograms per year.

By November 30, 2014, our Burlington joint venture had announced that its application to Health Canada&#146;s for the Burlington facility had advanced from preliminary to enhanced screening. By December 12, 2014, the joint venture was extended to June 12, 2015.

On June 11, 2015, we entered into a Letter of Intent dated June 10, 2015 with Shaxon Enterprises Ltd. to sell our 49% interest in the Burlington joint venture, including our interest in MMPR application number 10QMM0610 for the proposed Burlington, Ontario production facility. Subsequent to the LOI with Shaxon Enterprises Ltd., our joint venture agreement with Enertopia which was entered into on May 28, 2014 was terminated due to the pending sale of the project. As a result of the termination, 500,000 restricted and escrowed common shares of Lexaria issued to Enertopia at a deemed price of $0.40 were returned to treasury and cancelled. The Enertopia and Lexaria Master Joint Venture Agreement entered into on March 5, 2014 is still effective and governs the relationship between our Company and Enertopia. 

On June 26, 2015, we signed a Definitive agreement to sell our interest in the Burlington joint venture along with the MMPR application number 10MMPR0610. The Burlington MMPR license application will continue in the application process under new ownership. Pursuant to the agreement, the joint venture received a non-refundable $10,000 deposit and is entitled to receive up to $1,500,000 in milestone payments upon the Burlington facility becoming licensed under the MMPR. These monies would be split 51% to Enertopia and 49% to Lexaria. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we can neither guarantee nor provide a meaningful time estimate regarding the grant of a production license for the Burlington facility. There is no assurance that any monies will in fact ever be received from our sale of the license application.

Marijuana Production in the United States 

In the United States it is still illegal under federal law to grow, cultivate and sell medical or adult use marijuana. However more than twenty-five states have approved medical marijuana for use and at least eight states have approved adult use regulations. The United States Federal government justice department has released memos that will respect the individual states where strict guidelines are followed and enforced so that the health, safety and security are protected at all times by state authorities. If the individual state framework fails to protect the public the Federal government will act in enforcing the controlled substances act of 1970 and the DEA will enforce the federal law. 

As at the date of document, our company has not entered into any prospective or definitive arrangements to produce or distribute marijuana products in the United States and has no intention of engaging in such marijuana related activities in the United States. However, our company continually reviews opportunities and monitors legal and regulatory developments related the medical marijuana sector in both Canada and the United States. We anticipate that we will re-evaluate our participation in the United States medical marijuana sector in the event that medical marijuana production becomes federally sanctioned and, in the meantime, we plan to limit our foray into the marijuana industry to only out-licensing of our technology to licensed producers.

On November 8 2016 referendums held in various US states increased those areas in the USA where either medical or recreational use marijuana was state-legal. More than 50% of the US population now lives in a state where either medical or recreational marijuana use is permitted by state law, although it is still banned by US federal laws. 

Employees 

We primarily use sub-contractors and consultants in the medical marijuana operations and alternative health products.

On November 27, 2008, we entered into a consulting agreement with CAB Financial Services Ltd., a British Columbia company. The consulting services provided by CAB Financial are on a continuing basis for a consideration of CAD$8,000 per month plus applicable taxes. CAB Financial is a consulting company controlled by our chief executive officer, Christopher Bunka. Effective December 1, 2014, the Company entered into a new consulting agreement for consulting services of $10,000 a month plus GST. 

On May 12, 2009, we entered into a six-month consulting agreement with BKB Management Ltd., a British Columbia company for a consideration of CAD$4,500 per month plus applicable taxes. Effective January 1, 2011, the consideration was increased to CAD$5,500 plus applicable taxes. BKB Management is a consulting company controlled by our chief financial officer, Bal Bhullar. Effective December 1, 2014, the Company entered into a new consulting agreement for consulting services of CAD$7,500 a month plus GST. Ms. Bhullar resigned as the Company&#146;s chief financial officer effective April 29, 2016. 

On August 5, 2010 we entered into a three-month management agreement with Tom Ihrke for Mr. Ihrke to act as the senior vice-president, business development for our company for consideration of $3,125 per month. On December 2, 2010, we amended the agreement to be month-to-month. On October 3, 2011 Mr. Ihrke and our company amended the agreement whereby his title changed to manager, business development for a monthly consulting fee of $3,125. Effective January 15, 2012, the consulting agreement was decreased to $10 a month. Effective April 1, 2014, the amended consulting agreement was increased to $5,000 per month. Effective December 23, the Company entered into a new Executive Management consulting agreement for consulting services of $3,000 a month. Mr. Ihrke tendered his resignation on March 8, 2016. 

On September 1, 2014, the Company entered into a contract with M&#38;E Services Ltd.., wholly owned company by Allan Spissinger as Controller for CAD$2,500 plus GST. This contract was amended on December 1, 2014 to CAD$3,400 a month plus GST. 

The Company appointed Mr. John Docherty as President of Lexaria effective April 15, 2015. The Company executed a twenty-four-month consulting contract with Docherty Management Limited, solely owned by Mr. John Docherty with monthly compensation of CAD$12,500 and shall increase to a total of CAD$15,000 per month effective at that time when the Company has $1,000,000 or more in cash in its bank accounts, and continue at CAD$15,000 per month from that moment until the termination or completion of the contract. The Company may pay Mr. Docherty a bonus from time to time, at its sole discretion. Mr. Docherty will be entitled to receive common stock-based and stock option based bonuses upon achieving certain milestones during the time of his consultancy with the Company. These milestones are: 

Upon signing: A grant of 500,000 stock options priced one-cent above market prices at the time of award. (granted). 90 Days after signing: A grant of 500,000 restricted common shares (Completed - 420,000 restricted common shares issued with cash payment of $16,000, as mutually agreed to between the parties). 18 

Twelve months after signing: A grant of 300,000 stock options priced one-cent above market prices at the time of award (granted). 18 months after signing: A grant of 300,000 restricted common shares (252,000 restricted common shares issued in October 2016 with cash payment of $6,240, as mutually agreed to between the parties). During the first 12 months after signing; for combined Lexaria Energy and ViPova&#153; products and including all combined sales efforts, achieving non-refundable sales of $200,000 to any single customer in any consecutive 60-day period would result in a restricted common share award of 100,000 Company shares (expired); and, after the first 12 months after signing and expiring 24 months after signing; for combined Lexaria Energy and ViPova&#153; products and including all sales efforts, achieving non-refundable sales of $200,000 to any single customer in any consecutive 60-day period would result in a restricted common share award of 50,000 Company shares; this clause is limited to one payment per customer during the 24-month period, but payable on each customer that meets these sales thresholds; During the first 12 months after signing; for combined Lexaria Energy and ViPova&#153; products and including all combined sales efforts, achieving non- refundable sales of $500,000 in any fiscal quarter would result in a restricted common share award of 200,000 Company shares (expired); and, after the first 12 months after signing and expiring 24 months after signing; for combined Lexaria Energy and ViPova&#153; products and including all sales efforts, achieving non-refundable sales of $500,000 in any fiscal quarter would result in a restricted common share award of 100,000 Company shares; this clause is limited to one payment per fiscal quarter; During the time this Agreement remains in effect, for each new provisional patent application substantially devised by Mr. Docherty and successfully created, written and filed with the US Patent Office for Company-owned intellectual property, a restricted common share award of 250,000 Company shares. This clause is not limited to the frequency of payment but each patent application is to be approved by the Board of Directors of the Company, in advance. During the year ended August 31, 2016, the Company issued to Mr. Docherty, 210,000 restricted common shares and further accrued $4,000 combined in lieu of issuance of 250,000 restricted common shares, as mutually agreed to between the parties. We do not expect any material changes in the number of employees over the next 12 month period although individual personnel changes and fluctuations should always be expected. We do and will continue to outsource contract employment as needed. However, with product advancement or retial acceptance of our new products, we may need to retain additional employees particularly in the fields of product manufacturing and development, and in sales and distribution. It is not possible to accurately project potential needs into the future based on circumstances that may or may not occur.

Research and Development 

We have incurred $9,024 in research and development expenditures over the last fiscal year. Subject to successful financing efforts, we expect to conduct additional research and development, and conduct additional scientific testing, in the upcoming fiscal year. Exact programs remain undefined at this time and will be tightly related to our financial ability to undertake such steps.

However our plans include in vitro absorption tests of our patented technology of molecules such as Vitamin E; Ibuprofen; Nicotine; and, THC. We also hope to conduct our first ever in vivo absorption tests on CBD and on THC, all curing the upcoming fiscal year if budgets allow. Depending on how many of these tests we undertake, we could require budgets of as much as $500,000, or as little as $35,000, to do so. 

Subsidiaries 

We have one wholly owned subsidiary, Lexaria CanPharm Corp., a Canadian corporation. We also have a 51%-owned subsidiary Poviva Tea, LLC which was incorporated on December 12, 2014, under the laws of the State of Nevada. 

