 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Company Overview and Business Model 

Luna Innovations Incorporated ("we" or the "Company") develops, manufactures and markets fiber optic sensing and test &#38; measurement products focused on bringing new and innovative technology solutions to measure, monitor, protect and improve critical processes in the aerospace, automotive, energy, composite, telecommunications, and defense industries. As a result of our merger with Advanced Photonix, Inc. ("API"), as described below, we also package optoelectronic semiconductors into high-speed optical receivers ("HSOR" products), custom optoelectronic subsystems ("Optoelectronics" products), and Terahertz ("THz") instrumentation. Our HSOR transmission products are deployed in the internet infrastructure to enable the high-speed bandwidth necessary to support video and data. Our Optoelectronics products are sold to scientific instrumentation manufacturers for various applications such as metrology, currency validation, flame monitoring, and temperature sensing. In addition, we provide applied research services, typically under research programs funded by the U.S. government, in areas of advanced materials, sensing, and healthcare applications. We use our in-house technical expertise across a range of technologies to perform applied research services for companies and for government funded projects. Our business model is designed to accelerate the process of bringing new and innovative products to market. We continue to invest in product development and commercialization, which we anticipate will lead to increased product sales growth. 

Our corporate growth strategy is focused principally in two areas: expanding our HSOR products and sales for the growing fiber-to-the-premise market and the data center communications market; and becoming the leading provider of fiber optic strain &#38; temperature sensing solutions and standard test methods for composite, as well as non-composite materials, structures and systems. 

We are organized into two main business segments, our Products and Licensing segment and our Technology Development segment. Our Products and Licensing segment develops, manufactures and markets our suite of products including our HSOR, Optoelectronics, and THz products, as well as our fiber optic sensing and test &#38; measurement products. The Products and Licensing segment also includes revenues from licenses of our technologies to third parties and the funded development of potential new products for both corporate and government customers. Our Products and Licensing segment 

revenues represented approximately 69% &#32;and 43% &#32;of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Historically our Products and Licensing segment included the funded development of our fiber optic shape sensing technology for minimally invasive medical applications. On January 21, 2014, we sold the assets associated with our fiber optic shape sensing technology in the medical field to affiliates of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. (as referring either to these affiliates in such capacity as buyers or to Intuitive Surgical, Inc., "Intuitive"), as described more fully below. As part of this transaction, we entered into a revocable license agreement with Intuitive pursuant to which we have the right to use all of our transferred technology outside the field of medicine and in respect of our existing non-shape sensing products in certain non-robotic medical fields. We are continuing to develop and commercialize our fiber optic technology for strain &#38; temperature sensing applications for the aerospace, automotive, and energy industries. 

Our Technology Development segment performs applied research principally in the areas of sensing &#38; instrumentation, advanced materials, and health sciences. Our Technology Development segment comprised approximately 31% &#32;and 57% &#32;of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. Most of the government funding for our Technology Development segment is derived from the Small Business Innovation Research ("SBIR"), program coordinated by the U.S. Small Business Administration ("SBA"). Our Technology Development segment revenues have historically accounted for a large portion of our total revenues, and although we expect our Product and Licensing segment to grow at a faster rate, we expect that our Technology Development segment will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. 

Our SBIR research is focused on technological areas with commercial potential and we strive to commercialize any resulting scientific advancements. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , approximately 26% of our total revenues were generated under the SBIR program, compared to 47% for the year ended December 31, 2014 . 

For the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , 34% and 54%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from the U.S. government. 

Merger with Advanced Photonix, Inc. &#32; 

On May 8, 2015, we completed a merger with API, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of January 30, 2015, by and among Luna, API and API Merger Sub, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary ("API Merger Sub"). In accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, upon the completion of the merger, API Merger Sub merged with and into API, with API surviving as our wholly-owned subsidiary. In the merger, former API stockholders received 0.31782 shares of our common stock for each share of API common stock they owned at the effective time of the merger. 

API was a leading test &#38; measurement company that packages optoelectronic semiconductors into high-speed optical receivers, custom optoelectronic sub systems and Terahertz instrumentation, serving the test &#38; measurement, telecommunications, military/aerospace and medical markets. The company has manufacturing facilities located in Camarillo, California and Ann Arbor, Michigan, both of which have remained in operation following the merger. 

Our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2015, include the results associated with the operations of API from the closing of our merger on May 8, 2015 through December 31, 2015. 

Products and Licensing 

In our Products and Licensing segment we have been successful in developing and marketing fiber optic test &#38; measurement products which provide solutions primarily for the telecommunications industry. In 2011, we introduced our ODiSI platform of products for distributed sensing of strain and temperature. Our key initiative for long term growth is to become a leading provider of fiber optic strain and temperature sensing systems and standard test methods based upon this product platform. Our primary product lines in this segment are described in more detail below. 

Test &#38; Measurement, Sensing, and Instrumentation Products 

Test &#38; Measurement Equipment for Fiber Optic Components and Sub-Assemblies 

Our product lines in the test &#38; measurement domain include our Optical Vector Analyzer (&#8220;OVA&#8221;), our Optical Backscatter Reflectometer (&#8220;OBR&#8221;), and the Phoenix family of tunable lasers. 

Historically, our test &#38; measurement products have primarily served the telecommunications industry, although most of our products have valuable applications in other fields. Our test &#38; measurement products monitor the integrity of fiber optic network components and sub-assemblies. These products are designed for manufacturers and suppliers of optical components and sub-assemblies and allow them to reduce development, test and production costs and improve the quality of their products. Most manufacturers and suppliers of optical components and modules currently use a combination of different types of optical test equipment to identify and measure failures in optical networks, such as bad splices, bends, crimps and other reflective and non-reflective events that can cause defects and negatively impact product performance. Our optical test equipment products replace the need to employ multiple test products by addressing all stages of the end user&#8217;s product development lifecycle, including design verification, component qualification, assembly process verification and failure analysis. Our OVA platform allows manufacturers and suppliers of optical components and sub-assemblies to reduce development, test and production costs and time-to-market by replacing multiple, time consuming and expensive measurement platforms with a single, integrated and easy-to-use instrument. 

Our OBR is a highly sensitive diagnostic device which has application in the telecommunications industry and the flexibility to provide measurements in various other non-telecom applications. Our OBR allows data and telecommunications companies and the service providers who maintain their own fiber optic networks to reduce test time and improve product quality. Our OBR provides the ability to inspect fiber networks with higher resolution and better sensitivity than is possible with other existing test products. Its user-friendly graphical user interface also makes the OBR product suitable for both research and manufacturing applications. The OBR gives end users a very high resolution view that is similar to an &#8220;X-Ray&#8221; into the inner workings of a fiber optic network. The OBR also has a feature that allows users to turn standard optical fiber into multiple sensors that could be used in a variety of temperature measurement and monitoring applications including power generation, civil structure monitoring, industrial process control; component-level heating in optical amplifiers, strain and load distribution measurements of aircraft harnesses and temperature monitoring inside telecommunications cabinets and enclosures. 

ODiSI Sensing Solution; Optical Distributed Sensor Interrogator 

Our ODiSI products provide fully distributed strain and temperature measurements and deliver an extraordinary amount of data by using an optical fiber as a continuous sensor for up to 50 meters in length. Compared to traditional sensing methods, such as electrical strain gages, this technology provides greater insight into the performance, tolerances and failure mechanisms of composite structures and vehicles. We believe the technology can provide exceptional value to the aerospace and automotive industries as they transition from steel and aluminum to composite structures. 

We have significant expertise in distributed sensing systems, such as ODiSI, which are products composed of multiple sensors whose inputs are integrated through a fiber optic network and software. These products use fiber optic sensing technology with an innovative monitoring system that allows several thousand sensors to be networked along a single optical fiber. 

Tunable Lasers 

We have acquired the rights to manufacture a line of swept tunable lasers to allow us to compete more effectively in our existing fiber optic test &#38; measurement as well as sensing markets. This technology is being integrated into current and new products to help us provide our customers with faster, more flexible and cost-effective test &#38; measurement products. The laser has desirable properties in the quality of the laser light produced, the speed at which it can operate, the small size of the package, and the environmental conditions in which it can operate. We believe that these traits make it possible for us to move our fiber optic sensing capabilities out of the laboratory, and into more demanding environments such as aircraft structural health monitoring, automotive manufacturing, green energy, and industrial applications. 

High Speed Optical Receivers 

Our HSOR transmission products are deployed in the internet communications equipment infrastructure to enable the high-speed bandwidth necessary to support video and data for television, computers, tablets or smart phones anytime and anywhere. Our communication test &#38; measurement products are used to develop, manufacture and test optical communication components and equipment used in the telecom/datacom infrastructure. 

Optoelectronic Solutions 

Our &#32; Optoelectronics products are sold to a number of scientific instrumentation manufacturers for various applications such as metrology, currency validation, flame monitoring, temperature sensing, particle detection, color sensing, infrared detection, and many other applications that can only be done through optical sensing. 

Terahertz Sensing 

Our THz systems are used to measure and verify physical properties on-line and in real-time to reduce raw materials and rework costs in manufacturing processes as well as to conduct quality control monitoring. THz is a region of the electromagnetic spectrum that lies between microwave and infrared waves and is in the early stages of adoption. While microwaves and infrared waves have been explored and commercialized for decades, THz waves are in the early stages of being explored and commercialized due to the fact that they have historically been very difficult to generate and detect. Advances in femtosecond lasers and ultra-fast semiconductor and electro-optic devices combined with fiber-optic packaging technologies have enabled the development of practical THz instrumentation for the research market with increasing adoption in the industrial, military and aerospace markets. THz can be used to "look" through and beneath materials with high two-dimensional and three-dimensional spatial resolution. It can also uniquely identify the chemical composition of many hidden or subsurface objects using non-ionizing radiation, which is not harmful to humans at the power levels commonly used today. We market our THz based products as our T-Ray product platform through value added resellers. 

Sales and Marketing 

We primarily market our fiber optic test &#38; measurement products to telecommunications companies, defense agencies, government system integrators, researchers, original equipment manufacturers, distributors, testing labs and strategic partners worldwide. We have a regional sales force that markets and sells our products through manufacturer representative organizations to customers in North America and through partner and distribution channels for other sales around the world. We have a dedicated sales force for direct marketing of our distributed sensing products, with an initial focus on customers in the automotive, aerospace, and energy industries. 

We market our HSOR, Optoelectronic, and THz products primarily as components or sub-assemblies to OEMs through a mix of technical sales engineers, value added resellers, and independent sales representatives. We market these products and capabilities through industry specific channels, including the internet, industry trade shows, and in print through trade journals. 

We believe that we provide a high level of support in developing and maintaining our long-term relationships with our customers. Customer service and support are provided through our offices and those of our partners that are located throughout the world. 

Technology Development 

We provide applied research for customers in our primary areas of focus, including sensing and materials such as nanomaterials, coatings, adhesives, composites and bio-engineered materials. We generally compete to win contracts in these areas on a fee-for-service basis. Our Technology Development segment has a successful track record of evaluating innovative technologies to address the needs of our customers. 

We seek to maximize the benefits we derive from our contract research business, including revenue generation and identification of promising technologies for further development. We focus primarily on opportunities in which we develop intellectual property rights in areas that we believe have commercialization potential. We take a disciplined approach to contract research to try to ensure that the costs of any contract we undertake will be fully reimbursed. We believe that this model is cost-efficient and significantly reduces our development risk in that it enables us to defray the costs of higher risk technology development with third-party funding. 

Although we conduct our applied research on a fee-for-service basis for third parties, we seek to retain full or partial rights to the technologies and patents developed under those contracts and to continuously enlarge and strengthen our intellectual property portfolio. New technology that we develop may complement existing technologies and enable us to develop applications and products that were not previously possible. In addition, the technologies we develop may also be applicable to commercial markets beyond the scope of the applications originally contemplated in the contract research stage, and we endeavor to capture the value of those opportunities. Funded research and development within this business segment was $13.6 million &#32;and $12.2 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Each year, U.S. government federal agencies and departments are required to set aside a portion of their grant awards for SBIR-qualified organizations. SBIR contracts include Phase I feasibility contracts of up to $150,000 and Phase II proof-of-concept contracts, which can be as high as $1,000,000. We have won three National Tibbetts Awards from the SBA for outstanding SBIR performance. We have also won research contracts outside the SBIR program from corporations and government entities. These contracts typically have a longer duration and higher value than SBIR grants. In the future, we will seek to derive a larger portion of our contract research revenues from contracts outside of the SBIR program. 

Materials 

We are actively developing a wide variety of materials. For example, we have developed a range of coatings, including both hydrophobic and superoleophobic coatings. These coatings are being evaluated for use in a number of applications. Other coatings under development include anti-corrosion and damage-indicating coatings. 

We are also working on a variety of bioengineered materials for homeostatic agents and wound healing. These materials must be approved by the FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies before they can be marketed, which we do not expect to occur for at least several years, if at all. 

Our nanomaterials activity is focused on fullerenes and tri-metal nitride endohedral fullerene (&#8220;Trimetasphere&#8221; &#174; ) materials. The Trimetasphere &#174; &#32;nanomaterial is a carbon sphere with three metal atoms and an enclosed nitrogen atom. We have obtained an exclusive license from Virginia Tech to commercialize Trimetasphere &#174; &#32;nanomaterials under an issued U.S. patent and pending U.S. patent applications. 

We are also researching other applications for nanomaterial-based drugs based on the anti-oxidative characteristics of fullerenes. These products are in the early stages of development, but if successful, could offer new market opportunities for us. 

In 2009, we acquired a patent portfolio from Tego Biosciences, Inc., including in- and out-licenses, generally for the use of carbon fullerene nanomolecules in the treatment of human health. We believe this acquisition strengthened our patent position in this area, but there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain commercial success as a result of these patents and licenses. 

Sensing 

Our Technology Development segment also performs a significant amount of applied research towards developing new sensors. This includes sensors for the purpose of corrosion, temperature, strain, pressure, structural health, and chemical detection. Much of the work is directed to harsh environments and uses optics. Examples include measuring temperature and neutron flux in nuclear reactors, pressure and temperature in gas turbines, and temperatures of cryogenic lines. The effort utilizes both discrete and distributed sensors. Our technology development work in this area is closely aligned with our Products and Licensing segment and is directed at advancing the technology and the development of new applications. 

Intellectual Property 

We seek patent protection on inventions that we consider important to the operations of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We control access to our proprietary technology and enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. 

Our success depends in part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain, maintain and enforce patent and trade secret protection for our products, as well as to successfully defend these patents against third-party challenges both in the United States and in other countries. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that we own or have licensed valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets that cover them. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because we may not be able to obtain patent protection on some or all of our technology and because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. 

Currently, we own or license approximately 284 U.S. and international patents and approximately 137 U.S. and international patent applications, and we intend to file, or request that our licensors file, additional patent applications for patents covering our products. Our issued patents generally have terms that are scheduled to expire between 2015 and 2030. However, patents may not be issued for any pending or future pending patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Claims allowed under any issued patent or future issued patent owned or licensed by us may not be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technologies. Any issued patents owned by or licensed to us now or in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and, in addition, the rights under such patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture or increase their market share with respect to related technologies. 

A discussion of our material patents and patent applications is set forth below. 

&#32; NASA Patents 

We have licensed, on a non-exclusive basis, four U.S. patents and related patents in Japan, Canada, Germany, France, Great Britain and Belgium from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, an agency of the U.S. government (&#8220;NASA&#8221;), which patents concern the measurement of strain in optical fiber using Bragg gratings and Rayleigh scatter and the measurement of the properties of fiber-optic communications devices. These patents expire between February 2017 and September 2020. 

VTIP Patents 

We have licensed, on an exclusive basis, two U.S. patents from Virginia Tech Intellectual Properties, Inc. (&#8220;VTIP&#8221;) to commercialize Trimetasphere&#174; nanomaterials for all fields of human endeavor. These patents expire in December 2019 and December 2022. 

Coherent Patents 

We have licensed, on a non-exclusive basis, several U.S. patents and other intellectual property rights owned or controlled by Coherent, Inc., related to the manufacturing, using, importing, selling and offering for sale of Coherent&#8217;s &#8220;Iolon&#8221; brand of swept tunable lasers, which we market under our &#8220;Phoenix&#8221; brand of lasers. These U.S. patents expire between 2020 and 2025. 

Shape Sensing Patents 

As a part of our sale of assets associated with our fiber optic shape sensing technology in the medical field to Intuitive, we transferred our related patents to Intuitive. Also as a part of this transaction, we entered into a revocable license agreement with Intuitive pursuant to which we have the right to use all of our transferred technology outside the field of medicine and in respect of our existing non-shape sensing products in certain non-robotic medical fields. Two U.S. patents that we now license back from Intuitive cover the use of optical frequency domain reflectometry and multiple, closely spaced Bragg gratings for shape sensing, and the use of the inherent scatter as a strain sensor for shape sensing. These two patents expire in July 2025. We also have a license back from Intuitive for a patent application that covers certain refinements to the measurements covered in the first two patents, which are necessary in order to achieve the necessary accuracies for medical and other applications. This patent application was filed in the United States, the European Patent Office, China, India, Russia, Brazil, Japan and Indonesia. These patents and patent applications can support other nonmedical applications of our fiber optic shape sensing technology. 

Corporate History 

We were incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1990 and reincorporated in the State of Delaware in April 2003. We completed our initial public offering in June 2006. In May 2015, we merged with API. Our executive offices are located at 301 1st St SW, Suite 200, Roanoke, Virginia 24011 and our main telephone number is (540) 769-8400. 

Material Agreements 

Sale of Assets to Intuitive Surgical 

On January 17, 2014, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Intuitive (the &#8220;Asset Purchase Agreement&#8221;). Under the Asset Purchase Agreement, effective as of 12:01 a.m. on January 21, 2014, we closed on the sale to Intuitive of substantially all of our assets related to our medical shape sensing business, including all of the patents and patent applications used or useful for our fiber optical shape sensing and localization technology, for $12 million, plus up to $8 million upon the accomplishment by Intuitive of certain technical specifications (the &#8220;Technical Specifications Payment&#8221;) and up to $10 million in potential future royalties (altogether, the &#8220;Transaction&#8221;). We had been engaged since 2007 in a development project for Intuitive developing a fiber optic-based shape sensing and position tracking system to be integrated into Intuitive&#8217;s products. Also as a part of the Transaction, Intuitive has hired certain of our employees, many of whom were historically engaged in this development project. In December 2015, we and Intuitive agreed to settle all remaining obligations related to the Technical Specifications Payment and royalties for a lump sum payment of $9 million, which we received in December 2015. 

The Asset Purchase Agreement contains representations and warranties, covenants and indemnification provisions common to transactions of this nature, except that our indemnification obligations are only limited in time until no further payments are due from Intuitive. Any disputes between the parties will be handled by mediation and arbitration in Chicago, Illinois. All of the transfers of technology contemplated in the Transaction have been made subject to our existing licenses and related obligations to Hansen Medical Inc. ("Hansen") and Philips Medical Systems. 

Also, in connection with the Transaction, we and Intuitive entered into a License Agreement of the same date under which we received a license back to all of our transferred technology outside the field of medicine and in respect of our existing non-shape sensing products in certain non-robotic medical fields. The license back to us outside the medical field is exclusive to us except that Intuitive retained certain non-sublicensable rights for itself. This license back to us is revocable if we were, after notice and certain time periods, (i) to challenge the validity or enforceability of the transferred patents and patent applications, (ii) to commercialize our fiber optical shape sensing and localization technology in the field of medicine (except to perform on a development and supply project for Hansen), (iii) to violate our obligations related to our ability to sublicense in the field of medicine or (iv) to violate our confidentiality obligations in a manner that advantages a competitor in the field of medicine and not cure such violation. As a part of the Transaction, we retained assets and rights necessary to perform on our development and supply project for Hansen if that project is re-started. 

Also, as a part of the Transaction, for a period of 15 years after closing, we agreed to exit and not develop or commercialize our fiber optical shape sensing and localization technology in the field of medicine (except for Hansen as described above). For a period of 10 years after closing, Intuitive has agreed not to use any of the assets being acquired in the Transaction, including the key employees being hired, to compete with us outside the field of medicine for shape, strain and/or temperature sensing in the aerospace, automotive, and energy markets and for strain sensing in the civil structural monitoring and composite material markets. 

Virginia Tech 

Our nanomaterials activity is focused on Trimetasphere&#174; materials. The Trimetasphere&#174; nanomaterial is a carbon sphere with three metal atoms and a nitrogen atom enclosed. We have obtained an exclusive license from VTIP to commercialize Trimetasphere nanomaterials under two U.S. patents for all fields of human endeavor. The term of this license ends upon the last expiration date of the underlying patents, which is December 2022. The license provides for certain royalties to be paid as a percentage of our net sales, certain percentages of amounts received from any of our sublicensees and certain milestone payments based on product development phases. We reimburse VTIP for patent costs incurred under the license. VTIP may terminate the license for cause. We may terminate the license at any time for any reason on 60 days' notice. 

We primarily utilize the VTIP license in our ongoing research into the potential use of Trimetaspheres to improve the safety of contrast agents commonly utilized in magnetic resonance imaging (&#8220;MRI&#8221;) procedures. We believe that contrast agents utilizing our Trimetasphere nanomaterials may be able to provide a higher image contrast than existing contrast agents but with a lower risk of toxicity. Medical contrast agents for human use, such as our Trimetasphere nanomaterials, must be approved by the FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies before they can be marketed, which we do not expect to occur for at least several years, if at all. As described below under &#8220;Government Regulation,&#8221; this approval process can involve significant time and expense and may delay or prevent our products from reaching the market. 

Coherent 

In December 2006, we entered into an asset transfer and license agreement with Coherent. Under the agreement, we acquired the rights to manufacture Coherent&#8217;s &#8220;Iolon&#8221; brand of swept tunable lasers as well as certain manufacturing equipment and inventory previously used by Coherent to manufacture the lasers. We continue to enhance, produce, and market these lasers under our &#8220;Phoenix&#8221; brand. Under this agreement, Coherent granted non-exclusive licenses to us for certain U.S. patents and other intellectual property rights owned or controlled by Coherent for making, having made, using, importing, selling and offering for sale the lasers. The term of this agreement is 10 years, but the patent licenses become fully paid and perpetual if we fulfill our royalty obligations during this 10-year period and the license to the other intellectual property rights is perpetual. These U.S. patents expire between 2020 and 2025. As consideration, we agreed to pay Coherent a total of $1.3 million over a period of two years and royalty payments on net sales of products sold by us that incorporate the lasers or that are manufactured using the intellectual property covered by the licenses. We paid Coherent royalty fees of approximately $70,000 

and $68,000 for 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. We also agreed to sell Coherent a limited number of lasers each year. The agreement is terminable by either party for cause after notice and an opportunity to cure. 

The Phoenix laser is a miniaturized, external-cavity laser offering high performance in a compact footprint and is applicable to a range of fiber optic test and measurement, instrumentation, and sensing applications. These products employ frequency-tuned lasers to measure various aspects of the transmission properties of telecommunications fiber optic components and systems. Lasers are also used in fiber optic sensing applications such as distributed strain and temperature mapping, and distributed measurement of shape. We currently use these lasers within our ODiSI platform of products, our fiber optic shape sensing products and certain of our backscatter reflectometer products, and we also sell variations of the Phoenix laser as standalone products. Under our agreements related to our sale of assets to Intuitive, we have certain obligations to supply Intuitive with these lasers and Intuitive has certain rights to require us to transfer and assign this Coherent license to Intuitive, in which case Intuitive would be similarly required to supply us with lasers. 

NASA 

We have licensed, on a non-exclusive basis, certain patents from NASA under two license agreements. These patents concern the measurement of strain in optical fiber using Bragg gratings and Rayleigh scatter, and also the measurement of the properties of fiber-optic communications devices. Under the license agreements, we pay NASA certain royalties based on a percentage of net sales of products covered by the patents. We incur a royalty obligation to NASA based upon a specified percentage of the revenue earned on each product sold utilizing these patents subject to combined minimum royalties of $220,000 per year under the license agreements. The term of the license agreements continues until the expiration of the last licensed patent, which is September 2020. These license agreements may be terminated by us on 90 days' notice. Either party may terminate the license agreements for cause upon certain conditions. 

Competition 

We compete for government, university and corporate research contracts relating to a broad range of technologies. Competition for contract research is intense and the industry has few barriers to entry. We compete against a number of in-house research and development departments of major corporations, as well as a number of small, limited-service contract research providers and companies backed by large venture capital firms. The contract research industry continues to experience consolidation, which has resulted in greater competition for clients. Increased competition might lead to price and other forms of competition that could harm our operating results. We compete for contract research on the basis of a number of factors, including reliability, past performance, expertise and experience in specific areas, scope of service offerings, technological capabilities and price. 

We also compete, or will compete, with a variety of companies in several different product markets. The products that we have developed or are currently developing will compete with other technologically innovative products, as well as products incorporating conventional materials and technologies. We expect that we will compete with companies in a wide range of industries, including semiconductors, electronics, biotechnology, textiles, alternative energy, military, defense, healthcare, telecommunications, industrial measurement, security applications and consumer electronics. Although there can be no assurance that we will continue to do so, we believe that we compete favorably in these areas because our products leverage advanced technologies to offer superior performance. If we are unable to effectively compete in these areas in the future, we could lose business to our competitors, which could harm our operating results. 

Government Regulation 

Qualification for Small Business Innovation Research Grants 

SBIR is a highly competitive program that encourages small businesses to explore their technological potential and provides them with incentives to commercialize their technologies by funding research that might otherwise be prohibitively expensive or risky for companies like us. As noted above, we presently derive a significant portion of our revenue from this program, but we must continue to qualify for the SBIR program in order to be eligible to receive future SBIR awards. The eligibility requirements are: 

&#8226; 

Ownership. The company must be at least 51 percent owned and controlled by U.S. citizens or permanent resident aliens, or owned by an entity that is itself at least 51 percent owned and controlled by U.S. citizens or permanent resident aliens; and 

&#8226; 

Size. The company, including its affiliates, cannot have more than 500 employees. 

These requirements are set forth in the SBA&#8217;s regulations and are interpreted by the SBA&#8217;s Office of Hearings and Appeals. In determining whether we satisfy the 51% ownership requirement, agreements to merge, stock options, convertible debt and other similar instruments are given &#8220;present effect&#8221; by the SBA as though the underlying security were actually issued unless the exercisability or conversion of such securities is speculative, remote or beyond the control of the security holder. We therefore believe our outstanding options and warrants held by eligible individuals may be counted as outstanding equity for purposes of meeting the 51% equity ownership requirement. We believe that we are in compliance with the SBA ownership requirements. 

In addition, to be eligible for SBIR contracts, the number of our employees, including those of any entities that are considered to be affiliated with us, cannot exceed 500. As of December 31, 2015, we, including all of our divisions, had 243 full- and part-time employees. In determining whether we have 500 or fewer employees, the SBA may count the number of employees of entities that are large stockholders who are &#8220;affiliated&#8221; or have the power to control us. In determining whether firms are affiliated, the SBA evaluates factors such as stock ownership and common management, but it ultimately may make its determination based on the totality of the circumstances. Eligibility protests can be raised to the SBA by a competitor or by the awarding contracting agency. If we grow larger, and if our ownership becomes more diversified, we may no longer qualify for the SBIR program, and we may be required to seek alternative sources and partnerships to fund some of our research and development costs. Additional information regarding these risks may be found below in &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

FDA Regulation of Products 

Some of the potential products that we are developing may be subject to regulation under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic ("FDC") Act. In particular, any Trimetasphere &#174; &#32;&#32;nanomaterial-based MRI contrast agent would be considered a drug, and our ultrasound diagnostic devices for measuring certain medical conditions will be considered medical devices, under the FDC Act. Both the statutes and regulations promulgated under the FDC Act govern, among other things, the testing, manufacturing, safety efficacy, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising and other promotional practices involving the regulation of drug and devices. Compliance with the FDC Act may add time and expense to product development, and there can be no assurance that any of our products will be successfully developed and approved for marketing by the FDA. 

Environmental, Health and Safety Regulation 

Our facilities and current and proposed activities involve the use of a broad range of materials that are considered hazardous under applicable laws and regulations. Accordingly, we are subject to a number of domestic and foreign laws and regulations and other requirements relating to employee health and safety, protection of the environment, product labeling and product take back. Regulated activities include the storage, use, transportation and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous or potentially hazardous materials and wastes. Our current and proposed activities also include potential exposure to physical hazards associated with work environment and equipment. We could incur costs, fines, civil and criminal penalties, personal injury and third-party property damage claims, or we could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or requirements. Liability under environmental, health and safety laws can be joint and several and without regard to fault. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental, health and safety laws will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits in a timely manner, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental, health and safety laws could also become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. Further, violations of present and future environmental, health and safety laws could restrict our ability to expand facilities and pursue certain technologies, as well as require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur potentially significant costs to comply with environmental, health and safety regulations and other requirements. 

We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with current and future environmental, health and safety laws. We anticipate that we could incur additional capital and operating costs in the future to comply with existing environmental, health and safety laws and new requirements arising from new or amended statutes and regulations. In addition, because the applicable regulatory agencies have not yet promulgated final standards for some existing environmental, health and safety programs, we cannot at this time reasonably estimate the cost for compliance with these additional requirements. The amount of any such compliance costs could be material. We cannot predict the impact that future regulations will impose upon our business. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 243 total employees, including approximately 122 in research, development and engineering positions, approximately 77 in operations, approximately 12 in sales and marketing, and 

approximately 32 in administrative positions. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Backlog 

We have historically had a backlog of contracts, primarily within our Technology Development segment, for which work has been scheduled, but for which a specified portion of work has not yet been completed. The approximate value of our backlog was $16.7 million &#32;and $12.8 million &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

We define backlog as the dollar amount of obligations payable to us under negotiated contracts upon completion of a specified portion of work that has not yet been completed, exclusive of revenues previously recognized for work already performed under these contracts, if any. Total backlog includes funded backlog, which is the amount for which money has been directly authorized by the U.S. government or for which a purchase order has been received from a commercial customer, and unfunded backlog, which represents firm orders for which funding has not yet been appropriated. Unfunded backlog was $3.3 million &#32;and $2.7 million &#32;as of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. Indefinite delivery and quantity contracts and unexercised options are not reported in total backlog. Our backlog is subject to delays or program cancellations that may be beyond our control. 

Our backlog of purchase orders received for which the related goods have not been shipped or recognized as revenue within our products and licensing segment was $10.7 million &#32;and $0.6 million &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. This increase in backlog resulted from the merger with API. Backlog associated with the operations of API increased $3.7 million &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;compared to the backlog of API as a standalone company as of December 31, 2014 . 

Research, Development and Engineering 

We incur research, development and engineering expenses that are not related to our contract performance. These expenses were $4.3 million &#32;and $2.1 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. In addition, during these years, we spent $10.4 million &#32;and $9.4 million , respectively, on customer-sponsored research activities, which amounts are reimbursed as part of our performance of customer contracts. 

Operating Segments and Geographic Areas 

For information with respect to our operating segments and geographic markets, see Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Website Access to Reports 

Our website address is www.lunainc.com. We make available, free of charge under &#8220;SEC Filings&#8221; on the Investor Relations portion of our website, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, as well as amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information appearing on our website is not incorporated by reference in and is not a part of this annual report. A copy of this annual report, as well as our other periodic and current reports, may be obtained from the SEC&#8217;s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. 

ITEM 1A. 

You should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission also contain forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or contemplated by these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks we face described below, as well as other variables that could affect our operating results. Past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 

RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY 

Our technology is subject to a license from Intuitive, which is revocable in certain circumstances. Without this license, we cannot continue to market, manufacture or sell certain of our fiber-optic products. 

As a part of the sale of our assets to Intuitive, we entered into a license agreement with Intuitive pursuant to which we received rights to use all of our transferred technology outside the field of medicine and in respect of our existing non-shape sensing products in certain non-robotic medical fields. This license back to us is revocable if after notice and certain time periods, we were to (i) challenge the validity or enforceability of the transferred patents and patent applications, (ii) commercialize our fiber optical shape sensing and localization technology in the field of medicine (except to perform on a development and supply project for Hansen), (iii) violate our obligations related to our ability to sublicense in the field of medicine or (iv) violate our confidentiality obligations in a manner that advantages a competitor in the field of medicine and not cure such violation. Maintaining this license is necessary for us to conduct our fiber-optic products business, both for our telecom products and our ODiSI sensing products. If this license were to be revoked by Intuitive, we would no longer be able to market, manufacture or sell these products which would severely limit our ability to continue operations. 

We depend on third-party vendors for specialized components in our manufacturing operations, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations that could harm our business. 

We primarily rely on third-party vendors for the manufacture of the specialized components used in our products. The highly specialized nature of our supply requirements poses risks that we may not be able to locate additional sources of the specialized components required in our business. For example, there are few manufacturers who produce the special lasers used in our optical test equipment. Our reliance on these vendors subjects us to a number of risks that could negatively affect our ability to manufacture our products and harm our business, including interruption of supply. Although we are now manufacturing tunable lasers in low-rate initial production, we expect our overall reliance on third-party vendors to continue. Any significant delay or interruption in the supply of components, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and in a timely manner could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and could harm our business. 

We depend upon outside contract manufacturers for a portion of the manufacturing process for some of our products. Our operations and revenue related to these products could be adversely affected if we encounter problems with these contract manufacturers. 

Many of our products are manufactured internally. However we also rely upon contract manufacturers to produce the finished portion of some of our optoelectronic components and certain lasers. Our reliance on contract manufacturers for these products makes us vulnerable to possible capacity constraints and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, manufacturing quality control and costs. If the contract manufacturer for our products were unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in required volumes and at high quality levels or to continue our existing supply arrangement, we would have to identify, qualify and select an acceptable alternative contract manufacturer or move these manufacturing operations to internal manufacturing facilities. An alternative contract manufacturer may not be available to us when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy our quality or production requirements on commercially reasonable terms, including price. Any significant interruption in manufacturing our products would require us to reduce the supply of products to our customers, which in turn would reduce our revenue, harm our relationships with the customers of these products and cause us to forego potential revenue opportunities. 

As a provider of contract research to the U.S. government, we are subject to federal rules, regulations, audits and investigations, the violation or failure of which could adversely affect our business. 

We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of a specific law or regulation could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. government may terminate any of our government contracts and, in general, subcontracts, at their convenience, as well as for default based on performance. 

In addition, U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Department of Labor, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor&#8217;s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The U.S. government also may review the 

adequacy of, and a contractor&#8217;s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor&#8217;s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers the inclusion of certain claimed costs deemed to be expressly unallowable, or improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, our reputation could suffer serious harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. In June 2015, we received a determination from the Defense Contract Management Agency ("DCMA") of expressly unallowable costs included in our claimed costs for the 2007 contract year. As a result of that determination, DCMA assessed us penalties, interest and over billings of $1.1 million. We have appealed that assessment, and our appeal is currently pending. Depending on the outcome of this appeal, we could be required to make payments that have a material adverse effect on our financial position. 

In addition to the risk of government audits and investigations, U.S. government contracts and grants impose requirements on contractors and grantees relating to ethics and business practices, which carry civil and criminal penalties including monetary fines, assessments, loss of the ability to do business with the U.S. government and certain other criminal penalties. 

We may also be prohibited from commercially selling certain products that we develop under our Technology Development segment or related products based on the same core technologies if the U.S. government determines that the commercial availability of those products could pose a risk to national security. For example, certain of our wireless technologies have been classified as secret by the U.S. government and as a result we cannot sell them commercially. Any of these determinations would limit our ability to generate product sales and license revenues. 

We rely and will continue to rely on contracts and grants awarded under the SBIR program for a significant portion of our revenues. A finding by the SBA that we no longer qualify to receive SBIR awards could adversely affect our business. 

We compete as a small business for some of our government contracts. Our revenues derived from the SBIR program account for a significant portion of our consolidated total revenues, and contract research, including SBIR contracts, will remain a significant portion of our consolidated total revenues for the foreseeable future. For the year ended December 31, 2015, 26% of our total revenues were generated under the SBIR program, compared to 47% in for the year ended December 31, 2014. 

We may not continue to qualify to participate in the SBIR program or to receive new SBIR awards from federal agencies. In order to qualify for SBIR contracts and grants, we must meet certain size and ownership eligibility criteria. These eligibility criteria are applied as of the time of the award of a contract or grant. A company can be declared ineligible for a contract award as a result of a size challenge filed with the SBA by a competitor or a federal agency. 

In order to be eligible for SBIR contracts and grants, under current SBA rules we must be more than 50% owned and controlled by individuals who are U.S. citizens or permanent resident aliens, and/or other small business concerns (each of which is more than 50% owned and controlled by individuals who are U.S. citizens or permanent resident aliens) or certain qualified investment companies. In the event our institutional ownership significantly increases, either because of increased buying by institutions or selling by individuals, we could lose eligibility for new SBIR contracts and grants. 

Also, in order to be eligible for SBIR contracts and grants, the number of our employees, including those of any entities that are considered to be affiliated with us, cannot exceed 500. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 243 full-time employees. In determining whether we are affiliated with any other entity, the SBA may analyze whether another entity controls or has the power to control us. Carilion Clinic is our largest institutional stockholder. Since early 2011, a formal size determination by the SBA that focused on whether or not Carilion is or was our affiliate has been outstanding. Although we do not believe that Carilion has or had the power to control our company, we cannot assure you that the SBA will interpret its regulations in our favor on this question. If the SBA were to make a determination that we are or were affiliated with Carilion, we would exceed the size limitations, as Carilion has over 500 employees. In that case, we would lose eligibility for new SBIR contracts and grants and other awards that are set aside for small businesses based on the criterion of number of employees, and the relevant government agency would have the discretion to suspend performance on existing SBIR grants. The loss of our eligibility to receive SBIR awards would have a material adverse impact on our revenues, cash flows and our ability to fund our growth. 

Moreover, as our business grows, it is foreseeable that we will eventually exceed the SBIR size limitations, in which case we may be required to seek alternative sources of revenues or capital. 

A decline in government research contract awards or government funding for existing or future government research contracts, including SBIR contracts, could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and ability to fund our growth. 

Technology development revenues, which consist primarily of government-funded research, accounted for 31% &#32;and 57% &#32;&#32;of our consolidated total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. As a result, we are vulnerable to adverse changes in our revenues and cash flows if a significant number of our research contracts and subcontracts were to be simultaneously delayed or canceled for budgetary, performance or other reasons. For example, the U.S. government may cancel these contracts at any time without cause and without penalty or may change its requirements, programs or contract budget, any of which could reduce our revenues and cash flows from U.S. government research contracts. Our revenues and cash flows from U.S. government research contracts and subcontracts could also be reduced by declines or other changes in U.S. defense, homeland security and other federal agency budgets. In addition, we compete as a small business for some of these contracts, and in order to maintain our eligibility to compete as a small business, we, together with any affiliates, must continue to meet size and revenue limitations established by the U.S. government. 

Our contract research customer base includes government agencies, corporations and academic institutions. Our customers are not obligated to extend their agreements with us and may elect not to do so. Also, our customers&#8217; priorities regarding funding for certain projects may change and funding resources may no longer be available at previous levels. 

In addition, the Budget Control Act commits the U.S. government to reduce the federal deficit by $1.2 trillion over ten years through a combination of automatic, across-the-board spending cuts and caps on discretionary spending. This &#8220;sequestration&#8221; under the Budget Control Act, which is split equally between defense and non-defense programs, went into effect on March 1, 2013. Any spending cuts required by &#8220;sequestration&#8221; could have a material adverse effect on our technology development revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. While the exact manner in which this &#8220;sequestration&#8221; may impact our business remains unclear, funding for programs in which we participate could be reduced, delayed or canceled. Our ability to obtain new contract awards also could be negatively affected. 

In addition to contract cancellations and changes in agency budgets, our future financial results may be adversely affected by curtailment of or restrictions on the U.S. government&#8217;s use of contract research providers, including curtailment due to government budget reductions and related fiscal matters or any legislation or resolution limiting the number or amount of awards we may receive. These or other factors could cause U.S. defense and other federal agencies to conduct research internally rather than through commercial research organizations or direct awards to other organizations, to reduce their overall contract research requirements or to exercise their rights to terminate contracts. Alternatively, the U.S. government may discontinue the SBIR program or its funding altogether. Also, SBIR regulations permit increased competition for SBIR awards from companies that may not have previously been eligible, such as those backed by venture capital operating companies, hedge funds and private equity firms. Any of these developments could limit our ability to obtain new contract awards and adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and ability to fund our growth. 

Our failure to attract, train and retain skilled employees or members of our senior management and to obtain necessary security clearances for such persons or maintain a facility security clearance would adversely affect our business and operating results. 

The availability of highly trained and skilled technical and professional personnel is critical to our future growth and profitability. Competition for scientists, engineers, technicians and professional personnel is intense and our competitors aggressively recruit key employees. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in recruiting and hiring these personnel as a result of the tight labor market in certain fields. Any difficulty in hiring or retaining qualified employees, combined with our growth strategy and future needs for additional experienced personnel, particularly in highly specialized areas such as nanomaterial manufacturing and fiber optic sensing technologies, may make it more difficult to meet all of our needs for these employees in a timely manner. Although we intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to attract and retain these employees, especially in technical fields in which the supply of experienced qualified candidates is limited, or at the senior management level. Any failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our business. Any loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet key operational objectives, such as timely and effective project milestones and product introductions, which in turn could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

We provide certain services to the U.S. government that require us to maintain a facility security clearance and for certain of our employees and our board chairman to hold security clearances. In general, the failure for necessary persons to obtain or retain sufficient security clearances, any loss by us of a facility security clearance or any public reprimand related to security matters could result in a U.S. government customer terminating an existing contract or choosing not to renew a contract or prevent us from bidding on or winning certain new government contracts. 

In addition, our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. We do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies on our officers. The loss of any members of our management team or other key personnel could seriously harm our business. 

Our business is subject to the cyclical nature of the markets in which we compete and any future downturn may reduce demand for our products and revenue. 

Many factors beyond our control affect our business, including consumer confidence in the economy, interest rates, fuel prices and the general availability of credit. The overall economic climate and changes in Gross National Product growth have a direct impact on some of our customers and the demand for our products. We cannot be sure that our business will not be adversely affected as a result of an industry or general economic downturn. 

Our customers may reduce capital expenditures and have difficulty satisfying liquidity needs because of continued turbulence in the U.S. and global economies, resulting in reduced sales of our products and harm to our financial condition and results of operations. 

In particular, API&#8217;s historical results of operations have been subject to substantial fluctuations, and we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future results of operations. Any future downturn in the markets in which we compete could significantly reduce the demand for our products and therefore may result in a significant reduction in revenue or increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected in the future due to changes in demand from customers or cyclical changes in the markets utilizing our products. 

In addition, the telecommunications industry has, from time to time, experienced, and may again experience, a pronounced downturn. To respond to a downturn, many service providers may slow their capital expenditures, cancel or delay new developments, reduce their workforces and inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies from original equipment manufacturers, which would have a negative impact on our business. Weakness in the global economy or a future downturn in the telecommunications industry may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, harm our business, and may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. 

Customer acceptance of our products is dependent on our ability to meet changing requirements, and any decrease in acceptance could adversely affect our revenue. 

Customer acceptance of our products is significantly dependent on our ability to offer products that meet the changing requirements of our customers, including telecommunication, military, medical and industrial corporations, as well as government agencies. Any decrease in the level of customer acceptance of our products could harm our business. 

Our products must meet exacting specifications, and defects and failures may occur, which may cause customers to return or stop buying our products. 

Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance and reliability that our products must meet. However, our products are highly complex and may contain defects and failures when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products are also subject to rough environments as they are integrated into our customer products for use by the end customers. If defects and failures occur in our products, we could experience lost revenue, increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, product returns or discounts, diversion of management resources or damage to our reputation and brand equity, and in some cases consequential damages, any of which would harm our operating results. In addition, delays in our ability to fill product orders as a result of quality control issues may negatively impact our relationship with our customers. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources, including any available insurance, to satisfy any asserted claims. 

Rapidly changing standards and regulations could make our products obsolete, which would cause our revenue and results of operations to suffer. 

We design products to conform to our customers&#8217; requirements and our customers&#8217; systems may be subject to regulations established by governments or industry standards bodies worldwide. Because some of our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards, if competing or new standards emerge that are preferred by our customers, we would have to make significant expenditures to develop new products. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible, or the industry groups adopt standards or governments issue regulations with which our products are not compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers and our revenue and results of operations would suffer. 

The markets for many of our products are characterized by changing technology which could cause obsolescence of our products, and we may incur substantial costs in delivering new products. 

The markets for many of our products are characterized by changing technology, new product introductions and product enhancements, and evolving industry standards. The introduction or enhancement of products embodying new technology or the emergence of new industry standards could render existing products obsolete, and result in a write down to the value of our inventory, or result in shortened product life cycles. Accordingly, our ability to compete is in part dependent on our ability to continually offer enhanced and improved products. 

The success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: 

&#8226; 

accurately anticipate customer needs; 

&#8226; 

innovate and develop new technologies and applications; 

&#8226; 

successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; 

&#8226; 

price products competitively and manufacture and deliver products in sufficient volumes and on time; and 

&#8226; 

differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. 

&#160; 

Some of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. We therefore must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers&#8217; products. In developing any new product, we may be required to make a substantial investment before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. If we fail to accurately foresee our customers&#8217; needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenues. 

Our inability to find new customers or retain existing customers could harm our business. 

Our business is reliant on our ability to find new customers and retain existing customers. In particular, customers normally purchase the legacy API products and incorporate them into products that they, in turn, sell in their own markets on an ongoing basis. As a result, the historical sales or these products have been dependent upon the success of our customers&#8217; products and the future performance of the legacy API business is dependent upon our success in finding new customers and receiving new orders from existing customers. 

In several markets, the quality and reliability of our products are a major concern for our customers, not only upon the initial manufacture of the product, but for the life of the product. Many of our products are used in remote locations for higher value assembly, making servicing of our products unfeasible. Any failure of the quality or reliability of our products could harm our business. 

If our customers do not qualify our products or if their customers do not qualify their products, our results of operations may suffer. 

Most of our customers do not purchase our HSOR and Optoelectronics products prior to qualification of the products and satisfactory completion of factory audits and vendor evaluation. Our existing products, as well as each new product, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. In addition, because of the rapid technological changes in some markets, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we begin large-scale manufacturing and receiving revenues from the customer. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized custom design projects. It is difficult to predict with any certainty whether our customers will delay or terminate product qualification or the frequency with which customers will cancel or modify their projects. Any such delay, cancellation or modification could have a negative effect on our results of operations. 

In addition, once a customer qualifies a particular supplier&#8217;s product or component, these potential customers design the product into their system, which is known as a design-in win. Suppliers whose products or components are not designed in are unlikely to make sales to that customer until at least the adoption of a future redesigned system. Even then, many customers may be reluctant to incorporate entirely new products into their new systems, as doing so could involve significant additional redesign efforts and increased costs. If we fail to achieve design-in wins in potential customers&#8217; qualification processes, we will likely lose the opportunity for significant sales to those customers for a lengthy period of time. 

If the end user customers that purchase systems from our customers fail to qualify or delay qualifications of any products sold by our customers that contain our products, our business could be harmed. The qualification and field testing of our customers&#8217; systems by end user customers is long and unpredictable. This process is not under our control or that of our customers and, as a result, the timing of our sales may be unpredictable. Any unanticipated delay in qualification of one of our customers&#8217; products could result in the delay or cancellation of orders from our customers for products included in their equipment, which could harm our results of operations. 

Customer demand for our products is difficult to accurately forecast and, as a result, we may be unable to optimally match production with customer demand, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. 

We make planning and spending decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, inventory levels, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customer requirements. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of unexpected changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate future customer requirements. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can strain our resources, cause our manufacturing to be negatively impacted by materials shortages, necessitate higher or more restrictive procurement commitments, increase our manufacturing yield loss and scrapping of excess materials, and reduce our gross margin. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet the volume demands of our customers, or one or more of our suppliers may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our volume demands. Conversely, a downturn in the markets in which our customers compete can cause, and in the past have caused, API&#8217;s legacy customers to significantly reduce or delay the amount of products ordered or to cancel existing orders, leading to lower utilization of our facilities. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, reduction in customer demand due to market downturns or other reasons would have a negative effect on our gross margin, operating income and cash flow. 

Customer orders and forecasts are subject to cancellation or modification at any time which could result in higher manufacturing costs. 

Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products. However, by industry practice, some orders may be canceled or modified at any time. When a customer cancels an order, they are responsible for all finished goods, all costs, direct and indirect, incurred by us, as well as a reasonable allowance for anticipated profits. No assurance can be given that we will receive these amounts after cancellation. Furthermore, uncertainty in customer forecasts of their demands and other factors may lead to delays and disruptions in manufacturing, which could result in delays in product shipments to customers and could adversely affect our business. 

Fluctuations and changes in customer demand are common in the legacy API business. Such fluctuations, as well as quality control problems experienced in manufacturing operations, may cause delays and disruptions in our manufacturing process and overall operations and reduce output capacity. As a result, product shipments could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers or could be canceled, which would negatively affect our sales, operating income, strategic position at customers, market share and reputation. In addition, disruptions, delays or cancellations could cause inefficient production which in turn could result in higher manufacturing costs, lower yields and potential excess and obsolete inventory or manufacturing equipment. In the past, API experienced such delays, disruptions and cancellations. 

The results of our operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our customers&#8217; businesses and levels of business activity. 

Global economic and political conditions affect our customers&#8217; businesses and the markets they serve. A severe or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect our customers&#8217; financial conditions and the timing or levels of business activity of our customers and the industries we serve. This may reduce the demand for our products or depress pricing for our products and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to products or services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business we are able to obtain. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected as a result. 

We have a history of losses, and because our strategy for expansion may be costly to implement, we may experience continuing losses and may never achieve or maintain profitability or positive cash flow. 

We realized a net loss from continuing operations of $6.0 million &#32;and $3.4 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses as we pursue our strategic initiatives, including increased expenses for research and development, sales and marketing and manufacturing. We may also grow our business in part through acquisitions of additional companies and complementary technologies which could cause us to incur greater than anticipated transaction expenses, amortization or write-offs of intangible assets and other acquisition-related expenses. As a result, we may incur net losses for the foreseeable future, and these losses could be substantial. At a certain level, continued net losses could impair our ability to comply with NASDAQ continued listing standards, as described further below. 

Our ability to generate additional revenues and to become profitable will depend on our ability to execute our key growth initiative regarding the development, marketing and sale of HSOR and sensing products, develop and commercialize innovative technologies, expand our contract research capabilities and sell the products that result from those development initiatives. We are unable to predict when or if we will be able to achieve profitability. If our revenues do not increase, or if our expenses increase at a greater rate than our revenues, we will continue to experience losses. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 

We have obtained capital by borrowing money under a term loan and we might require additional capital to support and expand our business; our term loan has various loan covenants with which we must comply. 

We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth, including developing new products, enhancing our existing products, obtaining important regulatory approvals, enhancing our operating infrastructure, completing our development activities and building our commercial scale manufacturing facilities. To the extent that we are unable to become or remain profitable and to finance our activities from our continuing operations, we may require additional funds to support these initiatives and to grow our business. 

If we are successful in raising additional funds through issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, including as the result of the issuance of warrants in connection with the financing, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our existing common stock. Furthermore, such financings may jeopardize our ability to apply for SBIR grants or qualify for SBIR contracts or grants, and our dependence on SBIR grants may restrict our ability to raise additional outside capital. If we raise additional funds through debt financings, these financings may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business and make distributions to our stockholders. 

We have a term loan with Silicon Valley Bank ("SVB"), which requires us to observe certain financial and operational covenants, including maintenance of a specified minimum liquidity ratio, achievement of specified adjusted EBITDA targets, maintenance of a specified minimum cash balance, protection and registration of intellectual property rights, and certain customary negative covenants, as well as other customary events of default. If any event of default occurs SVB may declare due immediately all borrowings under our term loan and foreclose on the collateral. Furthermore, an event of default would result in an increase in the interest rate on any amounts outstanding. 

If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. 

Our nanotechnology-enabled products are new and may be, or may be perceived as being, harmful to human health or the environment. 

While we believe that none of our current products contain chemicals known by us to be hazardous or subject to environmental regulation, it is possible that our current or future products, particularly carbon-based nanomaterials, may become subject to environmental or other regulation. We intend to develop and sell carbon-based nanomaterials as well as nanotechnology-enabled products, which are products that include nanomaterials as a component to enhance those products&#8217; performance. Nanomaterials and nanotechnology-enabled products have a limited historical safety record. Because of their size or shape or because they may contain harmful elements, such as gadolinium and other rare-earth metals, our products could pose a safety risk to human health or the environment. These characteristics may also cause countries to adopt regulations in the future prohibiting or limiting the manufacture, distribution or use of nanomaterials or nanotechnology-enabled products. Such regulations may inhibit our ability to sell some products containing those materials and thereby harm our business or impair our ability to develop commercially viable products. 

The subject of nanotechnology has received negative publicity and has aroused public debate. Government authorities could, for social or other purposes, prohibit or regulate the use of nanotechnology. Ethical and other concerns about nanotechnology could adversely affect acceptance of our potential products or lead to government regulation of nanotechnology-enabled products. 

We face and will face substantial competition in several different markets that may adversely affect our results of operations. 

We face and will face substantial competition from a variety of companies in several different markets. As we focus on developing marketing and selling fiber optic sensing products, we may also face substantial and entrenched competition in that market. 

Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. 

These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors, in which case our revenues may fail to increase or may decline. 

Intense competition in our markets could result in aggressive business tactics by our competitors, including aggressively pricing their products or selling older inventory at a discount. If our current or future competitors utilize aggressive business tactics, including those described above, demand for our products could decline, we could experience delays or cancellations of customer orders, or we could be required to reduce our sales prices. 

Decreases in average selling prices of our products may increase operating losses and net losses, particularly if we are not able to reduce expenses commensurately. 

The market for optical components and subsystems continues to be characterized by declining average selling prices resulting from factors such as increased price competition among optical component and subsystem manufacturers, excess capacity, the introduction of new products and increased unit volumes as manufacturers continue to deploy network and storage systems. In recent years, API observed a significant decline of average selling prices, primarily in the telecommunications market. We anticipate that average selling prices will continue to decrease in the future in response to product introductions by competitors or by us, or in response to other factors, including price pressures from significant customers. In order to sustain profitable operations, we must, therefore, reduce the cost of our current designs or continue to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that incorporate features that can be sold at higher average selling prices. Failure to do so could cause our sales to decline and operating losses to increase. 

Our cost reduction efforts may not keep pace with competitive pricing pressures. To remain competitive, we must continually reduce the cost of manufacturing our products through design and engineering changes. We may not be successful in redesigning our products or delivering our products to market in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that any redesign will result in sufficient cost reductions enabling us to reduce the price of our products to remain competitive or positively contribute to operating results. 

Shifts in product mix may result in declines in gross profit. 

Our gross profit margins vary among our product platforms, and are generally highest on our test &#38; measurement instruments. Our overall gross profit may fluctuate from period to period as a result of a variety of factors including shifts in product mix, the introduction of new products, and decreases in average selling prices for older products. If our customers decide to buy more of our products with low gross profit margins or fewer of our products with high gross profit margins, our total gross profits could be harmed. 

Risks Relating to our Operations and Business Strategy 

If we cannot successfully transition our revenue mix from contract research revenues to product sales and license revenues, we may not be able to fully execute our business model or grow our business. 

Our business model and future growth depend on our ability to transition to a revenue mix that contains significantly larger product sales and revenues from the provision of services or from licensing. Product sales and these revenues potentially offer greater scalability than contract research revenues. Our current plan is to increase our sales of commercial products, our licensing revenues and our provision of non-research services to customers so as to represent a larger percentage of our total revenues. If we are unable to develop and grow our product sales and revenues from the provision of services or from licensing to augment our contract research revenues, however, our ability to execute our business model or grow our business could suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve increased revenues in this manner. 

Failure to develop, introduce and sell new products or failure to develop and implement new technologies, could adversely impact the financial results of the combined company. 

Success of the combined company will depend on its ability to develop and introduce new products that customers choose to buy. The new products the market requires tend to be increasingly complex, incorporating more functions and operating at faster speeds than old products. If the combined company fails to introduce new product designs or technologies in 

a timely manner or if customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating products of the combined company, the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company could be materially harmed. 

If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our revenues and net loss could be adversely affected. 

We may need to expand our personnel resources to grow our business effectively. We believe that sustained growth at a higher rate will place a strain on our management as well as on our other human resources. To manage this growth, we must continue to attract and retain qualified management, professional, scientific and technical and operating personnel. If we are unable to recruit a sufficient number of qualified personnel, we may be unable to staff and manage projects adequately, which in turn may slow the rate of growth of our contract research revenues or our product development efforts. 

We may not be successful in identifying market needs for new technologies or in developing new products. 

Part of our business model depends on our ability to correctly identify market needs for new technologies. We intend to identify new market needs, but we may not always have success in doing so in part because our contract research largely centers on identification and development of unproven technologies, often for new or emerging markets. Furthermore, we must identify the most promising technologies from a sizable pool of projects. If our commercialization strategy process fails to identify projects with commercial potential or if management does not ensure that such projects advance to the commercialization stage, we may not successfully commercialize new products and grow our revenues. 

Our growth strategy requires that we also develop successful commercial products to address market needs. We face several challenges in developing successful new products. Many of our existing products and those currently under development are technologically innovative and require significant and lengthy product development efforts. These efforts include planning, designing, developing and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. These activities require us to make significant investments. Although there are many potential applications for our technologies, our resource constraints require us to focus on specific products and to forgo other opportunities. We expect that one or more of the potential products we choose to develop will not be technologically feasible or will not achieve commercial acceptance, and we cannot predict which, if any, of our products we will successfully develop or commercialize. The technologies we research and develop are new and steadily changing and advancing. The products that are derived from these technologies may not be applicable or compatible with the state of technology or demands in existing markets. Our existing products and technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete if our competitors adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies and changes in customers&#8217; requirements. Furthermore, we may not be able to identify if and when new markets will open for our products given that future applications of any given product may not be readily determinable, and we cannot reasonably estimate the size of any markets that may develop. If we are not able to successfully develop new products, we may be unable to increase our product revenues. 

We face risks associated with our international business. 

We currently conduct business internationally and we might considerably expand our international activities in the future. Our international business operations are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: 

&#8226; 

having to comply with U.S. export control regulations and policies that restrict our ability to communicate with non-U.S. employees and supply foreign affiliates and customers; 

&#8226; 

changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products, perform services or repatriate profits to the United States; 

&#8226; 

the imposition of tariffs; 

&#8226; 

hyperinflation or economic or political instability in foreign countries; 

&#8226; 

imposition of limitations on, or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures; 

&#8226; 

conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown; 

&#8226; 

the imposition of restrictive trade policies; 

&#8226; 

the imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations; 

&#8226; 

the imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments; 

&#8226; 

uncertainties relating to foreign laws and legal proceedings; 

&#8226; 

having to comply with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"); and 

&#8226; 

having to comply with licensing requirements. 

We do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may have on our international business in the future. 

We may dispose of or discontinue existing product lines and technology developments, which may adversely impact our future results. 

On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our various product offerings and technology developments in order to determine whether any should be discontinued or, to the extent possible, divested. In addition, if we are unable to generate the amount of cash needed to fund the future operations of our business, we may be forced to sell one or more of our product lines or technology developments. 

We cannot guarantee that we have correctly forecasted, or that we will correctly forecast in the future, the right product lines and technology developments to dispose or discontinue or that our decision to dispose of or discontinue various investments, products lines and technology developments is prudent if market conditions change. In addition, there are no assurances that the discontinuance of various product lines will reduce operating expenses or will not cause us to incur material charges associated with such decision. Furthermore, the discontinuance of existing product lines entails various risks, including the risk that we will not be able to find a purchaser for a product line or the purchase price obtained will not be equal to at least the book value of the net assets for the product line. Other risks include managing the expectations of, and maintaining good relations with, our historical customers who previously purchased products from a disposed or discontinued product line, which could prevent us from selling other products to them in the future. We may also incur other significant liabilities and costs associated with disposal or discontinuance of product lines, including employee severance costs and excess facilities costs. 

We may be liable for damages based on product liability claims relating to defects in our products, which might be brought against us directly, or against our customers in their end-use markets. Such claims could result in a loss of customers in addition to substantial liability in damages. 

Our products are complex and undergo quality testing as well as formal qualification, both by our customers and by us. However, defects may occur from time to time. Our customers&#8217; testing procedures may be limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios and over varying amounts of time. For various reasons, such as the occurrence of performance problems that are unforeseeable in testing or that are detected only when products age or are operated under peak stress conditions, our products may fail to perform as expected long after customer acceptance. Failures could result from faulty components or design, problems in manufacturing or other unforeseen reasons. As a result, we could incur significant costs to repair or replace defective products under warranty, particularly when such failures occur in installed systems. In addition, we may in certain circumstances honor warranty claims after the warranty has expired or for problems not covered by warranty in order to maintain customer relationships. Any significant product failure could result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well as customer relations problems, litigation and damage to our reputation. 

In addition, many of our products are embedded in, or deployed in conjunction with, our customers&#8217; products, which incorporate a variety of components, modules and subsystems and may be expected to interoperate with modules produced by third parties. As a result, not all defects are immediately detectable, and, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from internal product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business. 

Furthermore, many of our products may provide critical performance attributes to our customers&#8217; products that will be sold to end users who could potentially bring product liability suits in which we could be named as a defendant. The sale of these products involves the risk of product liability claims. If a person were to bring a product liability suit against one of our customers, this customer may attempt to seek contribution from us. A person may also bring a product liability claim directly against us. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our insurance coverage for payments, for which we are not otherwise indemnified, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 

We could be negatively affected by a security breach, either through cyber-attack, cyber-intrusion or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems. 

We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber 

terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. 

As a technology company, and particularly as a government contractor, we may face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our proprietary, confidential or classified information on our IT networks and related systems. These types of information and IT networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. In addition, as certain of our technological capabilities become widely known, it is possible that we may be subjected to cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion as third parties seek to gain improper access to information regarding these capabilities and cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusion could compromise our confidential information or our IT networks and systems generally, as it is not practical as a business matter to isolate all of our confidential information and trade secrets from email and internet access. There can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. 

A security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and IT networks and related systems could disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations, compromise our confidential information and trade secrets, or damage our reputation among our customers and the public generally. Any of these developments could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

Risks Relating to our Regulatory Environment 

Our operations are subject to domestic and foreign laws, regulations and restrictions, and noncompliance with these laws, regulations and restrictions could expose us to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and overall financial position. 

Our operations, particularly our international sales, subject us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to imports, exports (including the Export Administration Regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations), technology transfer restrictions, anti-boycott provisions, economic sanctions and the FCPA. The number of our various emerging technologies, the development of many of which has been funded by the Department of Defense, presents us with many regulatory challenges. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could result in suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in regulation or political environment may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. 

Environmental regulations could increase operating costs and additional capital expenditures and delay or interrupt operations. 

The photonics industry, as well as the semiconductor industry, are subject to governmental regulations for the protection of the environment, including those relating to air and water quality, solid and hazardous waste handling, and the promotion of occupational safety. Various federal, state and local laws and regulations require that we maintain certain environmental permits. While we believe that we have obtained all necessary environmental permits required to conduct our manufacturing processes, if we are found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines and liability for damages resulting from such violations. 

Changes in the aforementioned laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws, regulations or policies could require increases in operating costs and additional capital expenditures and could possibly entail delays or interruptions of our operations. 

Our healthcare and medical products are and may continue to be subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory approval process. If we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory approvals or clearances, we will not be able to market and sell our products for clinical use in the United States. Complying with applicable regulations is an expensive and time-consuming process and any failure to fully comply with such regulations could subject us to enforcement actions. 

Certain of our current and potential products could require regulatory clearances or approvals prior to commercialization. For example, any nanomaterial-based MRI contrast agent is likely to be considered a drug under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the "FDC Act"). Drugs and some medical devices are subject to rigorous preclinical testing and other approval 

requirements by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA"), pursuant to the FDC Act, and regulations under the FDC Act, as well as by similar health authorities in foreign countries. 

Various federal statutes and regulations also govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, packaging, advertising, storage, registration, listing and recordkeeping related to marketing of pharmaceuticals. The process of obtaining these clearances or approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms, if at all. We cannot be certain that any required FDA or other regulatory approval will be granted or, if granted, will not be withdrawn. Our failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, or our failure to obtain them in a timely manner, will prevent or delay our commercialization of new products and our business or our stock price could be adversely affected as a result. 

We will also become subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. If the FDA determines that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions ranging from a regulatory letter to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions. Our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

If our manufacturing facilities do not meet Federal, state or foreign country manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, which would result in product delivery delays and negatively impact revenues. 

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated by the FDA for compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements contained in the quality systems regulations. We are also required to comply with International Organization for Standardization ("ISO"), quality system standards in order to produce certain of our products for sale in Europe. If we fail to continue to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements or ISO standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. Obtaining and maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. We cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements or ISO standards in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. In addition, if we cannot maintain or establish manufacturing facilities or operations that comply with such standards or do not meet the expectations of our customers, we may not be able to realize certain economic opportunities in our current or future supply arrangements. 

Medical products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. If we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals for any such potential products, we may not be able to market and sell our medical products in foreign countries. 

To be able to market and sell medical products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will have the resources to be able to pursue such approvals or whether we would receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. For example, the European Union requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the CE mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the European Union, which we have not yet obtained and may never obtain. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenues will be harmed. 

We are subject to additional significant foreign and domestic government regulations, including environmental and health and safety regulations, and failure to comply with these regulations could harm our business. 

Our facilities and current and proposed activities involve the use of a broad range of materials that are considered hazardous under applicable laws and regulations. Accordingly, we are subject to a number of foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health and safety, protection of the environment and the storage, use, disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and wastes. We could incur costs, fines and civil and criminal penalties, personal injury and third party property damage claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental, health and safety laws. Moreover, a failure to comply with environmental laws could result in fines and the revocation of environmental permits, which could prevent us from conducting our business. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to fault. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental and health and safety laws will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. Accordingly, violations of 

present and future environmental laws could restrict our ability to expand facilities, pursue certain technologies, and could require us to acquire costly equipment or incur potentially significant costs to comply with environmental regulations. 

Compliance with foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations represents a small part of our present budget. If we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, however, a government entity may levy a fine on us or require us to take costly measures to ensure compliance. Any such fine or expenditure may adversely affect our development. We cannot predict the extent to which future legislation and regulation could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, capital expenditures or restrictions and delays in the development of our products and properties. 

Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property 

Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies. 

Our commercial success will depend in part on our obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark protection of our technologies in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as successfully enforcing this intellectual property and defending it against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable intellectual property protections, such as patents or trade secrets, cover them. In particular, we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes. The degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. The degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is also uncertain for products that are currently in the early stages of development because we cannot predict which of these products will ultimately reach the commercial market or whether the commercial versions of these products will incorporate proprietary technologies. 

Our patent position is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: 

&#8226; 

we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; 

&#8226; 

we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; 

&#8226; 

others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; 

&#8226; 

it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; 

&#8226; 

patents may issue to third parties that cover how we might practice our technology; 

&#8226; 

our issued patents and issued patents of our licensors may not provide a basis for commercially viable technologies, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; and 

&#8226; 

we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. 

Patents may not be issued for any pending or future pending patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and claims allowed under any issued patent or future issued patent owned or licensed by us may not be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technologies. Moreover, protection of certain of our intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in the United States or in foreign countries, and we have not sought to obtain foreign patent protection for certain of our products or technologies due to cost, concerns about enforceability or other reasons. Any issued patents owned by or licensed to us now or in the future may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and the rights under such patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, and in the case of certain products no foreign patents were filed or can be filed. This could make it easier for competitors to capture or increase their market share with respect to related technologies. We could incur substantial costs to bring suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others or defend ourselves in suits brought against us. An unfavorable outcome of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 

We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We regularly attempt to obtain confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions with our collaborators, employees and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. These agreements may be breached or may not have adequate remedies for such breach. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors, or those of our strategic partners, may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes unwilling to protect trade 

secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. 

If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing technologies and we may not generate enough revenues from product sales to justify the cost of developing our technologies and to achieve or maintain profitability. 

We also rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our company and our products. To maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. Also, we might not obtain registrations for our pending trademark applications, and we might have to defend our registered trademark and pending trademark applications from challenge by third parties. Enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. 

Third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. 

Various U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in our technology areas. Such third parties may claim that we infringe their patents. Because patent applications can take several years to result in a patent issuance, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our technologies may infringe. For example, we are aware of competitors with patents in technology areas applicable to our optical test equipment products. Such competitors may allege that we infringe these patents. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our technologies may inadvertently infringe. We have from time to time been, and may in the future be, contacted by third parties, including patent assertion entities or intellectual property advisors, about licensing opportunities that also contain claims that we are infringing on third party patent rights. If third parties assert these claims against us, we could incur extremely substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, and the defense of these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we believe we have not infringed on a third party&#8217;s patent rights, we may have to settle a claim on unfavorable terms because we cannot afford to litigate the claim. In addition, if third parties assert claims against us and we are unsuccessful in defending against these claims, these third parties may be awarded substantial damages as well as injunctive or other equitable relief against us, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute or market our products and services in the United States or abroad. 

Commercial application of nanotechnologies in particular, or technologies involving nanomaterials, is new and the scope and breadth of patent protection is uncertain. Consequently, the patent positions of companies involved in nanotechnologies have not been tested, and there are complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles will be developed or may remain unresolved. In addition, it is not clear whether such patents will be subject to interpretations or legal doctrines that differ from conventional patent law principles. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our nanotechnology-related intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our nanotechnology-related patents or in third party patents. In the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. However, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

A substantial portion of our technology is subject to retained rights of our licensors, and we may not be able to prevent the loss of those rights or the grant of similar rights to third parties. 

A substantial portion of our technology is licensed from academic institutions, corporations and government agencies. Under these licensing arrangements, a licensor may obtain rights over the technology, including the right to require us to grant a license to one or more third parties selected by the licensor or that we provide licensed technology or material to third parties for non-commercial research. The grant of a license for any of our core technologies to a third party could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, some of our licensors retain certain rights under the licenses, including the right to grant additional licenses to a substantial portion of our core technology to third parties for non-commercial academic and research use. It is difficult to monitor and enforce such non-commercial academic and research uses, and we cannot predict whether the third-party licensees would comply with the use restrictions of such licenses. We have incurred and could incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights against them. We also may not fully control the ability to assert or defend those patents or other intellectual property which we have licensed from other entities, or which we have licensed to other entities. 

In addition, some of our licenses with academic institutions give us the right to use certain technology previously developed by researchers at these institutions. In certain cases we also have the right to practice improvements on the licensed technology to the extent they are encompassed by the licensed patents and are within our field of use. Our licensors may currently own and may in the future obtain additional patents and patent applications that are necessary for the development, manufacture and commercial sale of our anticipated products. We may be unable to agree with one or more academic institutions from which we have obtained licenses whether certain intellectual property developed by researchers at these academic institutions is covered by our existing licenses. In the event that the new intellectual property is not covered by our existing licenses, we would be required to negotiate a new license agreement. We may not be able to reach agreement with current or future licensors on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or the terms may not permit us to sell our products at a profit after payment of royalties, which could harm our business. 

Some of our patents may cover inventions that were conceived or first reduced to practice under, or in connection with, U.S. government contracts or other federal funding agreements. With respect to inventions conceived or first reduced to practice under a federal funding agreement, the U.S. government may retain a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States the invention throughout the world. We may not succeed in our efforts to retain title in patents, maintain ownership of intellectual property or in limiting the U.S. government&#8217;s rights in our proprietary technologies and intellectual property when an issue exists as to whether such intellectual property was developed in the performance of a federal funding agreement or developed at private expense. 

If we fail to obtain the right to use the intellectual property rights of others which are necessary to operate our business, and to protect their intellectual property, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 

In the past, we have licensed certain technologies for use in our products. In the future, we may choose, or be required, to license technology or intellectual property from third parties in connection with the development of our products. We cannot assure you that third-party licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our competitors may be able to obtain licenses, or cross-license their technology, on better terms than we can, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Also, we often enter into confidentiality agreements with such third parties in which we agree to protect and maintain their proprietary and confidential information, including at times requiring our employees to enter into agreements protecting such information. There can be no assurance that the confidentiality agreements will not be breached by any of our employees or that such third parties will not make claims that their proprietary information has been disclosed. 

RISKS RELATING TO THE MERGER WITH API 

If we are unable to successfully integrate API&#8217;s business it could have an adverse effect on our future results and the market price of our common stock. 

The success of our recently completed merger with API will depend, in large part, on sales of the combined company&#8217;s products and on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits, including annual net operating synergies and cost reductions from combining our business with API&#8217;s business. To realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully integrate API&#8217;s business. This integration will be complex and time-consuming. 

The failure to successfully integrate and manage the challenges presented by the integration process may result in our failure to achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: 

&#8226; 

lost sales and customers as a result of customers of either of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company; 

&#8226; 

complexities associated with managing the larger combined company with distant business locations; 

&#8226; 

integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products; 

&#8226; 

the loss of key employees; 

&#8226; 

potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses associated with the merger; and 

&#8226; 

performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the diversion of management&#8217;s attention caused by completing the merger and integrating the companies&#8217; operations. 

If any of these events were to occur, the ability of the combined company to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger could be adversely affected, or could reduce our future earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results and, as a result, adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 

Customer uncertainties related to our operations after the merger could adversely affect our businesses, revenues and gross margins. 

If there is uncertainty among our customers, including customers of API, regarding the operation of Luna following the merger, they may delay or defer purchasing decisions or elect to switch to other suppliers. In particular, prospective customers could be reluctant to purchase the products and services due to uncertainty about the direction of the combined company&#8217;s offerings and willingness to support existing products. To the extent that the merger has created, or in the future creates, uncertainty among those persons and organizations contemplating purchases such that customers delay, defer or change purchase decisions in connection with the merger, our revenues would be adversely affected. Customer assurances may be made by us to address their customers&#8217; uncertainty about the direction of the combined company&#8217;s product and related support offerings, which may result in additional obligations. As a result of any of these actions, our quarterly revenues and net earnings could be substantially below market expectations and a decline in our stock price could result. 

The future market price for shares of our common stock may be affected by factors different from those affecting the market price for shares of our common stock prior to the merger. 

The risks associated with Luna following the completion of the merger may affect the results of operations of the combined company differently than they affected the results of operations of each of Luna and API as separate companies. Additionally, our future results of operations may be affected by additional or different factors than those that historically affected our results of operations, including, but not limited to: complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business; integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing products and services; and potential performance shortfalls resulting from the diversion of management&#8217;s attention caused by integrating the companies&#8217; operations. 

RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK 

If there are substantial sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, our stock price could decline. 

If any of our stockholders were to sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may decline, which might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Substantial sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, may have a material adverse effect on the prevailing market price of our common stock. 

Pursuant to an Investor Rights Agreement, we filed a Form S-3 registration statement in 2014 registering the potential resale of an aggregate of up to approximately 6.3 million shares of our common stock by our then two largest stockholders, Carilion Clinic ("Carilion") and Dr. Kent Murphy. This registration statement has been declared effective by the SEC, and Dr. Murphy has sold substantially all of his approximately 2.8 million shares included in the registration statement. Carilion continues to hold its approximately 3.5 million shares covered by the registration statement (including approximately 1.3 million shares issuable to Carilion upon conversion of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that Carilion holds). Because the registration statement is effective, these shares may be sold freely in the public market. Any sales of these shares, or the perception that future sales of shares may occur by Carilion or any of our other significant stockholders, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Any such continuing material adverse effect on the market price of our stock could impair our ability to comply with NASDAQ&#8217;s continuing listing standards in respect of our minimum stock price, as further described below. 

Furthermore, the common stock we issued in the merger has been registered with the SEC on a Form S-4 registration statement. As a result, those shares are immediately available for resale in the public market. Former API common stockholders, collectively, received a number of Luna shares equal to 44% of the number of outstanding shares of our common stock prior to the merger. Former API stockholders may sell the stock they received in the merger in the public markets. If this occurs, or if there is a perception in the market that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock may decline. 

We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management&#8217;s attention and harm our business and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all costs and damages. 

The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of technology companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company&#8217;s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class litigation also often follows certain significant business transactions, such as the sale of a business division or a change in control transaction. We 

may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management&#8217;s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. 

We may not be able to comply with all applicable listing requirements or standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market and NASDAQ could delist our common stock. 

Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements and standards. One such requirement is that we maintain a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share for our common stock. Although we currently comply with the minimum bid requirement, in the recent past, our minimum bid price has fallen below $1.00 per share, and it could again do so in the future. If our bid price falls below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days, we will receive a deficiency notice from NASDAQ advising us that we have 180 days to regain compliance by maintaining a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. Under certain circumstances, NASDAQ could require that the minimum bid price exceed $1.00 for more than ten consecutive days before determining that a company complies. 

In the event that our common stock is not eligible for continued listing on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate price quotations for, our common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. Also, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital if we are not listed on a major exchange. 

Our common stock price has been volatile and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially in the future, which could cause you to lose all or a substantial part of your investment. 

The public trading price for our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly. Since January 1, 2009, our common stock has traded between a high of $5.00 per share and a low of $0.26 per share. Among the factors, many of which we cannot control, that could cause material fluctuations in the market price for our common stock are: 

&#8226; 

sales of our common stock by our significant stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur, including sales pursuant to the Form S-3 registration statement or sales of shares issued in the merger with API, as described above; 

&#8226; 

changes in earnings estimates, investors&#8217; perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts&#8217; earnings estimates; 

&#8226; 

changes in our status as an entity eligible to receive SBIR contracts and grants; 

&#8226; 

quarterly variations in our or our competitors&#8217; results of operations; 

&#8226; 

general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; 

&#8226; 

announcements by us, or by our competitors, of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; 

&#8226; 

pending or threatened litigation; 

&#8226; 

any major change in our board of directors or management or any competing proxy solicitations for director nominees; 

&#8226; 

changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; 

&#8226; 

announcements related to patents issued to us or our competitors; 

&#8226; 

a lack of, limited or negative industry or securities analyst coverage; 

&#8226; 

discussions of our company or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and online investor communities such as chat rooms; and 

&#8226; 

general developments in our industry. 

In addition, the stock prices of many technology companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 

If our internal control over financial reporting is found not to be effective or if we make disclosure of existing or potential material weaknesses in those controls, investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price may be adversely affected. 

Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include an internal control report with our Annual Report on Form 10-K. That report must include management&#8217;s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year. 

We evaluate our existing internal control over financial reporting based on the framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. During the course of our ongoing evaluation of the internal controls, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. In connection with our recent merger with API, we have assumed API's legacy accounting and information systems. Although we are developing plans to integrate the legacy API systems with our own systems, until we do so, we may be at increased risk of internal control deficiencies. Remedying any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we identify may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement to remedy any such deficiencies will effectively mitigate or remedy such deficiencies. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. 

Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could discourage or prevent a change in control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. 

Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: 

&#8226; 

a classified board of directors serving staggered terms; 

&#8226; 

advance notice requirements to stockholders for matters to be brought at stockholder meetings; 

&#8226; 

a supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and 

&#8226; 

the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. 

We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years unless the holder&#8217;s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors or certain other conditions are satisfied. 

The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 

&#160; 

