 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

General 

We are a transportation and logistics company engaged primarily in transporting truckload shipments of general commodities in both interstate and intrastate commerce. We also provide logistics services through our Value Added Services (&#8220;VAS&#8221;) division. We believe we are one of the largest truckload carriers in the United States (based on total operating revenues), and our headquarters are located in Omaha, Nebraska, near the geographic center of our truckload service area. We were founded in 1956 by Clarence L. Werner, who started the business with one truck at the age of 19 and serves as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. We were incorporated in the State of Nebraska in September 1982 and completed our initial public offering in June 1986 with a fleet of 632 trucks as of February 1986. At the end of 2015, we had a fleet of 7,450 trucks, of which 6,635 were company-operated and 815 were owned and operated by independent contractors. Our VAS division operated an additional 62 intermodal drayage trucks at the end of 2015. 

We have two reportable segments &#8211; Truckload Transportation Services (&#8220;Truckload&#8221;) and VAS. You can find financial information regarding these segments and the geographic areas in which we conduct business in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Our Truckload segment is comprised of the One-Way Truckload and Specialized Services units. One-Way Truckload includes the following operating fleets: (i) the medium-to-long-haul van (&#8220;Van&#8221;) fleet transports a variety of consumer nondurable products and other commodities in truckload quantities over irregular routes using dry van trailers; (ii) the expedited (&#8220;Expedited&#8221;) fleet provides time-sensitive truckload services utilizing driver teams; and (iii) the regional short-haul (&#8220;Regional&#8221;) fleet provides comparable truckload van service within geographic regions across the United States. Specialized Services provides truckload services dedicated to a specific customer, generally for a retail distribution center or manufacturing facility, including services for products requiring specialized trailers such as flatbed or temperature-controlled trailers. Our Truckload fleets operate throughout the 48 contiguous U.S. states pursuant to operating authority, both common and contract, granted by the U.S. Department of Transportation (&#8220;DOT&#8221;) and pursuant to intrastate authority granted by various U.S. states. We also have authority to operate in several provinces of Canada and to provide through-trailer service into and out of Mexico. The principal types of freight we transport include retail store merchandise, consumer products, grocery products and manufactured products. We focus on transporting consumer nondurable products that generally ship more consistently throughout the year and whose volumes are generally more stable during a slowdown in the economy. 

Our VAS segment is a non-asset-based transportation and logistics provider. VAS is comprised of the following four operating units that provide non-trucking services to our customers: (i) truck brokerage (&#8220;Brokerage&#8221;) uses contracted carriers to complete customer shipments; (ii) freight management (&#8220;Freight Management&#8221;) offers a full range of single-source logistics management services and solutions; (iii) the intermodal (&#8220;Intermodal&#8221;) unit offers rail transportation through alliances with rail and drayage providers as an alternative to truck transportation; and (iv) Werner Global Logistics international (&#8220;WGL&#8221;) provides complete management of global shipments from origin to destination using a combination of air, ocean, truck and rail transportation modes. Our Brokerage unit had transportation services contracts with approximately 12,920 carriers as of December 31, 2015. 

Marketing and Operations 

Our business philosophy is to provide superior on-time customer service at a significant value for our customers. To accomplish this, we operate premium modern tractors and trailers. This equipment has fewer mechanical and maintenance issues and helps attract and retain experienced drivers. We continually develop our business processes and technology to improve customer service and driver retention. We focus on customers who value the broad geographic coverage, diversified truck and logistics services, equipment capacity, technology, customized services and flexibility available from a large financially-stable transportation and logistics provider. 

We operate in the truckload and logistics sectors of the transportation industry. Our Truckload segment provides specialized services to customers based on (i) each customer&#8217;s trailer needs (such as van, flatbed and temperature-controlled trailers), (ii) geographic area (regional and medium-to-long-haul van, including transport throughout Mexico and Canada), (iii) time-sensitive shipments (expedited) or (iv) conversion of their private fleet to us (dedicated). In 2015, trucking revenues (net of fuel 

surcharge) and trucking fuel surcharge revenues accounted for 78% of total operating revenues, and non-trucking and other operating revenues (primarily VAS revenues) accounted for 22% of total operating revenues. Our VAS segment manages the transportation and logistics requirements for customers, providing customers with additional sources of truck capacity, alternative modes of transportation, a global delivery network and systems analysis to optimize transportation needs. VAS services include (i) truck brokerage, (ii) freight management, (iii) intermodal transport and (iv) international. The VAS international services are provided through our domestic and global subsidiary companies and include (i) ocean, air and ground transportation services, (ii) door-to-door freight forwarding and (iii) customs brokerage. Most VAS international services are provided throughout North America and Asia with additional coverage throughout Australia, Europe, South America and Africa. VAS is a non-asset-based transportation and logistics provider that is highly dependent on qualified associates, information systems and the services of qualified third-party capacity providers. You can find the revenues generated by services that accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, consisting of Truckload and VAS, for the last three years under Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K. 

We have a diversified freight base but are dependent on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our freight. During 2015, our largest 5, 10, 25 and 50 customers comprised 27%, 45%, 63% and 76% of our revenues, respectively. No single customer generated more than 10% of our revenues in 2015. The industry groups of our top 50 customers are 44% retail and consumer products, 28% grocery products, 13% manufacturing/industrial and 15% logistics and other. Many of our One-Way Truckload customer contracts may be terminated upon 30 days&#8217; notice, which is common in the truckload industry. Most of our Specialized Services customer contracts are one to three years in length and may be terminated by either party upon 30 to 90 days&#8217; notice following the expiration of the contract&#8217;s first year, and we review rates in these contracts annually. 

Virtually all of our company and independent contractor tractors are equipped with communication devices. These devices enable us and our drivers to conduct two-way communication using standardized and freeform messages. This technology also allows us to plan and monitor shipment progress. We automatically monitor truck movement and obtain specific data on the location of all trucks in the fleet every 15 minutes. Using the real-time global positioning data obtained from the devices, we have advanced application systems to improve customer and driver service. Examples of such application systems include: (i) an electronic logging system which records and monitors drivers&#8217; hours of service and integrates with our information systems to pre-plan driver shipment assignments based on real-time available driving hours; (ii) software that pre-plans shipments drivers can trade enroute to meet driver home-time needs without compromising on-time delivery schedules; and (iii) automated &#8220;possible late load&#8221; tracking that informs the operations department of trucks possibly operating behind schedule, allowing us to take preventive measures to avoid late deliveries. In 1998, we began a successful pilot program and subsequently became the first trucking company in the United States to receive an exemption from DOT to use a global positioning system-based paperless log system as an alternative to the paper logbooks traditionally used by truck drivers to track their daily work activities. We have used electronic logging devices (&#8220;ELDs&#8221;) to monitor and enforce drivers' hours of service since 1996. 

Seasonality 

In the trucking industry, revenues generally follow a seasonal pattern. Peak freight demand has historically occurred in the months of September, October and November. After the December holiday season and during the remaining winter months, our freight volumes are typically lower because some customers reduce shipment levels. Our operating expenses have historically been higher in the winter months due primarily to decreased fuel efficiency, increased cold weather-related maintenance costs of revenue equipment and increased insurance and claims costs attributed to adverse winter weather conditions. We attempt to minimize the impact of seasonality through our marketing program by seeking additional freight from certain customers during traditionally slower shipping periods and focusing on transporting consumer nondurable products. Revenue can also be affected by adverse weather conditions, holidays and the number of business days that occur during a given period because revenue is directly related to the available working days of shippers. 

Employee Associates and Independent Contractors 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 9,192 drivers; 664 mechanics and maintenance associates for the trucking operation; 1,306 office associates for the trucking operation; and 1,163 associates for VAS, international and other non-trucking operations. We also had 815 independent contractors who provide both a tractor and a driver or drivers. None of our U.S., Canadian or Chinese associates are represented by a collective bargaining unit, and we consider relations with our associates to be good. 

We recognize that our professional driver workforce is one of our most valuable assets. Most of our professional drivers are compensated on a per-mile basis. For most company-employed drivers, the rate per mile generally increases with the drivers&#8217; length of service. Professional drivers may earn additional compensation through incentive performance pay programs and for performing additional work associated with their job (such as loading and unloading freight and making extra stops and shorter mileage trips). 

At times, there are driver shortages in the trucking industry. Availability of experienced drivers can be affected by (i) changes in the demographic composition of the workforce; (ii) alternative employment opportunities other than truck driving that become available in the economy; and (iii) individual drivers&#8217; desire to be home more frequently. The driver market remained very challenging in 2015, and the supply of recent driver training school graduates continues to tighten. We believe that a declining number of, and increased competition for, driver training school graduates, a gradually declining national unemployment rate, aging truck driver demographics and increased truck safety regulations are tightening driver supply. We believe our strong mileage utilization, financial strength and safety record are attractive to drivers when compared to many other carriers. Additionally, we believe our large percentage of driving jobs in shorter-haul operations (such as Dedicated and Regional) that allow drivers to return home more often is attractive to drivers. 

We utilize recent driver training school graduates as a significant source of new drivers. These drivers have completed a training program at a driver training school, hold a commercial driver&#8217;s license (&#8220;CDL&#8221;) and are further trained by Werner-certified trainer drivers prior to that driver becoming a solo driver with their own truck. As mentioned above, the recruiting environment for recent driver training school graduates remained challenging in 2015. The availability of these drivers has been negatively impacted by the decreased availability of student loan financing for driver training schools. We own two driver training schools that operate a total of 15 driver training locations to assist with the training and development of drivers for our company and the industry. 

As economic conditions improve, competition for experienced drivers and recent driver training school graduates may increase and could become more challenging in 2016. We cannot predict whether we will experience future shortages in the availability of experienced drivers or driver training school graduates. If such a shortage were to occur and additional driver pay rate increases became necessary to attract and retain experienced drivers or driver training school graduates, our results of operations would be negatively impacted to the extent that we could not obtain corresponding freight rate increases. 

We also recognize that independent contractors complement our company-employed drivers. Independent contractors supply their own tractors and drivers and are responsible for their operating expenses. Independent contractors also provide us with another source of drivers to support our fleet. We intend to maintain our emphasis on independent contractor recruiting, in addition to company driver recruitment. We, along with others in the trucking industry, however, continue to experience independent contractor recruitment and retention difficulties that have persisted over the past several years. Challenging operating conditions, including inflationary cost increases that are the responsibility of independent contractors and a shortage of financing available to independent contractors for equipment purchases, continue to make it difficult to recruit and retain independent contractors. If a shortage of independent contractors occurs, additional increases in per mile settlement rates (for independent contractors) and driver pay rates (for company drivers) may become necessary to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers. These increases could negatively affect our results of operations to the extent that we could not obtain corresponding freight rate increases. 

Revenue Equipment 

As of December 31, 2015, we operated 6,635 company tractors and 815 tractors owned by independent contractors in our Truckload segment. Our VAS segment operated an additional 62 company tractors at the end of 2015. The company tractors were manufactured by Freightliner (a Daimler company), Peterbilt and Kenworth (both divisions of PACCAR) and Volvo. We adhere to a comprehensive maintenance program for both company tractors and trailers. We inspect independent contractor tractors prior to acceptance for compliance with Werner and DOT operational and safety requirements. We periodically inspect these tractors, in a manner similar to company tractor inspections, to monitor continued compliance. We also regulate the vehicle speed of company trucks to improve safety and fuel efficiency, and we have them set to not exceed 65 miles per hour. 

The average age of our company truck fleet was 1.9 years at December 31, 2015, compared to 2.2 years at December 31, 2014. We increased our capital expenditures in 2015 to lower the average age of our truck fleet, and we currently expect to reduce our average truck age to approximately 1.5 years during 2016. As of December 31, 2015, nearly all of our company tractors had engines that comply with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (&#8220;EPA&#8221;) engine emissions standards that became effective for newly manufactured engines beginning in January 2010. All of our trucks are equipped with satellite tracking devices. Most of our new trucks purchased in 2015 have collision mitigation safety systems and a majority of new trucks purchased in 2015 have automatic manual transmissions. 

We operated 24,090 company-owned trailers at December 31, 2015. This total is comprised of 22,560 dry vans; 184 flatbeds; 1,308 temperature-controlled trailers; and 38 specialized trailers. Most of our trailers were manufactured by Wabash National Corporation. As of December 31, 2015, nearly all of our dry van trailer fleet consisted of 53-foot composite (DuraPlate &#174; ) trailers. We also provide other trailer lengths, such as 48-foot and 57-foot trailers, to meet the specialized needs of certain customers. Approximately one third of our trailer fleet has satellite tracking; this is expected to grow to two thirds of our trailer fleet by the end of 2016. 

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Fleet Truck Sales, sells our used trucks and trailers. Fleet Truck Sales has been in business since 1992 and operates in six locations. We may also trade used trucks to original equipment manufacturers when purchasing new trucks. 

Fuel 

In 2015, we purchased approximately 98% of our fuel from a predetermined network of fuel stops throughout the United States. Of this 98%, approximately 96% was purchased from three large fuel stop vendors. We negotiate discounted pricing based on historical purchase volumes with these fuel stop vendors. Bulk fueling facilities are maintained at seven of our terminals and one dedicated customer location. 

Shortages of fuel, increases in fuel prices and rationing of petroleum products can have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Our customer fuel surcharge reimbursement programs generally enable us to recover from our customers a majority, but not all, of higher fuel prices compared to normalized average fuel prices. These fuel surcharges, which automatically adjust depending on the U.S. Department of Energy (&#8220;DOE&#8221;) weekly retail on-highway diesel fuel prices, enable us to recoup much of the higher cost of fuel when prices increase and provide customers with the benefit of lower fuel costs when fuel prices decline. We do not generally recoup higher fuel costs for empty and out-of-route miles (which are not billable to customers) and truck idle time. We cannot predict whether fuel prices will increase or decrease in the future or the extent to which fuel surcharges will be collected from customers. As of December 31, 2015, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel price fluctuations. 

We maintain aboveground and underground fuel storage tanks at many of our terminals. Leakage or damage to these facilities could expose us to environmental clean-up costs. The tanks are routinely inspected to help prevent and detect such problems. 

Regulations 

We are a motor carrier regulated by DOT in the United States and similar governmental transportation agencies in foreign countries in which we operate. DOT generally governs matters such as safety requirements, registration to engage in motor carrier operations, drivers&#8217; hours of service and certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions. We currently have, and have always maintained, a satisfactory DOT safety rating, which is the highest available rating, and we continually take efforts to maintain our satisfactory rating. A conditional or unsatisfactory DOT safety rating could adversely affect us because some of our customer contracts require a satisfactory rating. Equipment weight and dimensions are also subject to federal, state and international regulations with which we are required to comply. 

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's (&#8220;FMCSA&#8221;) Compliance, Safety, Accountability, (&#8220;CSA&#8221;) safety initiative monitors the safety performance of both individual drivers and carriers. In December 2010, FMCSA made public on its website the Safety Measurement System (&#8220;SMS&#8221;), which includes monthly reports of specific safety rating measurement and percentile ranking scores for over 500,000 trucking companies. Through the SMS, the public could access carrier scores and data (including a carrier&#8217;s roadside safety inspection, out-of-service and moving violation histories) for five Behavior Analysis and Safety Improvement Categories (&#8220;BASICs&#8221;). On December 3, 2015, Congress passed a multi-year surface transportation reauthorization, the Fixing America's Surface Transportation (&#8220;FAST&#8221;) Act. Within the bill was a provision instructing FMCSA to commission a Transportation Research Board study of the accuracy of CSA SMS in identifying high risk carriers and predicting future crash risk and severity. FMCSA must submit the study to Congress and issue a corrective action plan to address the deficiencies identified in the study. Beginning the day after enactment of the FAST Act, information regarding carrier alerts or percentile ranks (i.e., scores) was removed from public view until FMCSA completes the corrective action plan. We will continue to monitor any CSA developments and continue our CSA compliance efforts. 

On January 15, 2016, FMCSA released a proposal to change the method for assigning motor carriers' safety fitness determination (&#8220;SFD&#8221;). The proposed methodology would determine when a carrier is not fit to operate commercial motor vehicles in or affecting interstate commerce based on (i) the carrier's performance in relation to a fixed failure threshold established in the rule for five CSA categories; (ii) an investigation; or (iii) a combination of on-road safety data and investigation information. Currently, the assignment of an SFD follows the completion of a labor-intensive compliance review conducted at the carrier's place of business. These audits are primarily an assessment of paper records instead of on-road safety performance. The proposed SFD rule would replace the current three-tier federal rating system which assigns a rating of either &#8220;satisfactory&#8221;,&#8220;conditional&#8221;, or &#8220;unsatisfactory&#8221; to federally regulated commercial motor carriers (in place since 1982) with a single determination of &#8220;unfit,&#8221; which would require the carrier to either improve its operations or cease operations. 

All truckload carriers are subject to the hours of service (&#8220;HOS&#8221;) regulations issued by FMCSA. In December 2011, FMCSA adopted and issued a final rule that amended the driver HOS regulations, which became effective July 1, 2013. The rule includes provisions which affect restart periods, rest breaks, on-duty time and penalties for violations. We modified and tested our electronic HOS system and began dispatching drivers under the revised HOS rules effective July 1, 2013. The Company believes these HOS 

changes negatively impacted miles per truck by two to three percent. We have taken steps to minimize the financial impact of the HOS changes. However, government restrictions of available driving hours will continue to negatively impact the productivity of some drivers and some fleets within our company. On August 2, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued its decision related to petitions of the rule changes by the trucking industry association and consumer advocate groups. The court generally affirmed FMCSA's final rule and vacated only the application of the 30-minute rest break to short-haul drivers as defined in 49 CFR 395.1(e). On December 13, 2014, Congress passed the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015 which for one year temporarily suspended the requirement that all qualifying restarts contain two consecutive periods of time between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. and that it can only be used once every 168 hours (or seven days). In addition, FMCSA was required to study the safety impact caused by the restart rule which became effective on July 1, 2013. The restart rule reverted back to the simple 34-hour restart in effect from 2003 to June 30, 2013. We believe this has reduced the negative impact of the July 1, 2013 HOS changes during the one year suspension period. On December 18, 2015, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 was passed by Congress with HOS language that was intended to provide additional certainty for the industry. The language was to require the FMCSA study to demonstrate results with statistically significant improvements in safety and driver health, among other things, before the agency could reinstate the 34-hour restart rule including the restrictions that became effective in July 2013. Unfortunately, the new legislation did not include language specifically stipulating that the industry would continue to operate under the old 2003 restart rules if the study does not conclude that the restrictions offer significant improvements. Due to this oversight, there is now a risk of the restart provisions being eliminated unless the error is corrected, or the restart provisions could be changed from the current rule. 

On January 31, 2011, FMCSA issued proposed rules regarding the required installation and use of electronic logging devices (&#8220;ELDs&#8221;) by nearly all carriers to enhance the monitoring and enforcement of the driver HOS rules. Federal legislation required DOT to promulgate rules and regulations mandating the use of ELDs by July 2013 with full adoption for all trucking companies by no later than July 2015. However, FMCSA did not issue the final rule until December 10, 2015, and carriers have until December 2017 to adopt and use compliant ELDs. We are the recognized industry leader for electronic logging of driver hours as we proactively adopted a paperless log system in 1996 that was subsequently approved for our use by FMCSA in 1998. In order to improve compliance, and by extension safety performance and leveling the field upon which carriers compete, Werner supports a broad-based mandate for ELDs. 

&#32;In May 2011, FMCSA published a final rule that (i) sets new standards that must be met before states issue commercial learner&#8217;s permits (&#8220;CLP&#8221;), (ii) revises the knowledge and skills testing standards that must be met to obtain both a CLP and a CDL, and (iii) improves anti-fraud measures with the CDL program. States were expected to comply with and start enforcing the new requirements as of July 8, 2015. In September 2013, FMCSA withdrew its proposed rule regarding minimum requirements for entry-level driver training programs and later formed the Entry-Level Driver Training Advisory Committee (&#8220;ELDTAC&#8221;) to conduct negotiated rulemaking to implement entry-level driver training provisions. In June 2015, the ELDTAC reached a consensus and forwarded its recommendations to FMCSA. FMCSA has not yet taken action on the ELDTAC's recommendations as the proposed rule has yet to published. This rule could materially impact the number of potential new drivers entering the industry, and we currently cannot predict how the adoption of such rules would affect our driver recruitment and the overall driver market. 

WGL, through its domestic and global subsidiary companies, holds a variety of licenses required to carry out its international services. These licenses permit us to provide services as a Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier (&#8220;NVOCC&#8221;), customs broker, freight forwarder, indirect air carrier, accredited cargo agent and others. These international services subject us to regulation by the Transportation Security Administration (&#8220;TSA&#8221;) and Customs and Borders Protection (&#8220;CBP&#8221;) agencies of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission (&#8220;FMC&#8221;), the International Air Transport Association (&#8220;IATA&#8221;), as well as similar regulatory agencies in foreign jurisdictions. 

Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, many of which are implemented by the EPA and similar state regulatory agencies. These laws and regulations govern the management of hazardous wastes, discharge of pollutants into the air and surface and underground waters and disposal of certain substances. We do not believe that compliance with these regulations has a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position. 

The EPA mandated a series of stringent engine emissions standards for all newly manufactured truck engines, which became effective in October 2002, January 2007 and January 2010, resulting in increases in the costs of new trucks. The 2010 regulations required a significant decrease in particulate matter (soot and ash) and nitrogen oxide emitted from on-road diesel engines. Engine manufacturers responded to the 2010 standards by modifying engines to produce cleaner combustion with selective catalytic reduction (&#8220;SCR&#8221;) technologies to remove pollutants from exhaust gases exiting the combustion chamber. The SCR technology also requires the ongoing periodic use of a urea-based diesel exhaust fluid. Trucks with 2010-standard engines have a higher purchase price than trucks manufactured to meet the 2007 standards but are more fuel efficient. As of December 31, 2015, nearly all of our company tractors had engines that comply with the 2010 emission standards. 

The State of California enacted restrictions on transport refrigeration unit (&#8220;TRU&#8221;) emissions that require companies to operate compliant TRUs in California. The California regulations apply not only to California intrastate carriers, but also to carriers outside of California who wish to enter the state with TRUs. In January 2009, the EPA enabled California to phase in its Low-Emission TRU In-Use Performance Standards over several years. Enforcement of California&#8217;s in-use performance standards for TRU engines began in January 2010 for 2002 and older TRUs and will be phased in annually for later model years. We have complied with all compliance deadlines through December 31, 2015 that applied to model year 2008 and older TRU engines. California also required the registration of all California-based TRUs by July 31, 2009. For compliance purposes, we completed the California TRU registration process and continue to structure our plan to operate compliant TRUs over the next several years as the regulations apply to newer model years. 

California also adopted regulations to improve the fuel efficiency of heavy-duty tractors that pull 53-foot or longer box-type trailers within the state. The tractors and trailers subject to these regulations must either use EPA SmartWay-certified tractors and trailers or retrofit their existing fleet with SmartWay-verified technologies that have been demonstrated to meet or exceed fuel savings percentages specified in the regulations. Examples of these technologies include tractor and trailer aerodynamics packages (such as tractor fairings and trailer skirts) and the use of low-rolling resistance tires on both tractors and trailers. Enforcement of these regulations for 2011 model year equipment began in January 2010 and is being phased in over several years for older equipment. In order to comply with the California Air Resources Board&#8217;s (&#8220;CARB&#8221;) fuel efficiency regulations, we submitted a large fleet compliance plan to CARB on June 30, 2010, to install skirting on our dry van trailers by certain deadlines through 2016. We will continue monitoring our compliance with these CARB regulations. 

Various provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement (&#8220;NAFTA&#8221;) may alter the competitive environment for shipping into and out of Mexico. We currently believe we are well prepared to respond to any changes that may result from this agreement. We conduct a substantial amount of business in international freight shipments to and from the United States and Mexico (see Note 10 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K), and we believe we are one of the largest truckload carriers in terms of freight volume shipped to and from the United States and Mexico. 

Competition 

The freight transportation industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of trucking and non-asset-based logistics companies. We have a small share of the markets we target. Our Truckload segment competes primarily with other truckload carriers. Logistics companies, intermodal companies, railroads, less-than-truckload carriers and private carriers provide competition for both our Truckload and VAS segments. Our VAS segment also competes for the services of third-party capacity providers. 

Competition for the freight we transport or manage is based primarily on service, efficiency, available capacity and, to some degree, on freight rates alone. We believe that few other truckload carriers have greater financial resources, own more equipment or carry a larger volume of freight than us. We believe we are one of the largest carriers in the truckload transportation industry based on total operating revenues. 

Internet Website 

We maintain an Internet website where you can find additional information regarding our business and operations. The website address is &#32;www.werner.com. &#32;On the website, we make certain investor information available free of charge, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, stock ownership reports filed under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. This information is included on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). The website also includes Interactive Data Files required to be posted pursuant to Rule 405 of SEC Regulation S-T. We also provide our corporate governance materials, such as Board committee charters and our Code of Corporate Conduct, on our website free of charge, and we may occasionally update these materials when necessary to comply with SEC and NASDAQ rules or to promote the effective and efficient governance of our company. Information provided on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. 

