 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview

&#160;

MicroVision, Inc. is a pioneer in laser beam scanning (LBS) technology that we market under our brand name PicoP&#174;. We have developed our proprietary PicoP scanning technology that can be adopted by our customers to create high-resolution miniature projection and three-dimensional sensing and image capture solutions that use laser diodes as the light source. Our PicoP scanning technology incorporates our patented expertise in two-dimensional Micro-Electrical Mechanical Systems (MEMS), lasers, optics, and electronics to create a small form factor scanning engine with lower power needs than many other technologies that projects high-quality video and still image and/or uses depth sensing to capture three-dimensional data. 

We have licensed our patented PicoP scanning technology to other companies for incorporation into their scanning engines for projection. We sell our licensees key components needed to produce the laser scanning engines and/or license our technology to collect a royalty for each scanning engine they sell. Companies to whom we license our PicoP scanning technology are typically original design manufacturers (ODMs) or original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) who are in the business of making component parts or products ready for sale to end users. To date, we have primarily focused on the consumer electronics market, however, we believe that our technology creates a platform that can support multiple applications and markets including enterprise, medical, industrial and automotive. 

While we are optimistic about our technology and the potential for future revenues, we have incurred substantial losses since inception and we expect to incur a significant loss during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016. 

MicroVision, Inc. was founded in 1993 as a Washington corporation and reincorporated in 2003 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our headquarters is located at 6244 185th Avenue NE, Suite 100, Redmond, Washington 98052, and our telephone number is (425) 936-6847. 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free-of-charge from the investor page of our website, www.microvision.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies of these filings may also be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC directly at 1-800-SEC-0330 (1-800-732-0330). In addition, the SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains current, quarterly and annual reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically.

Technology

Our patented PicoP&#174; scanning technology combines a MEMS scanning mirror, laser diode light sources, electronics, and optics that are controlled using our proprietary system control expertise. The bi-directional MEMS scanning mirror is a key component of our technology platform and is one of our core competencies. Our MEMS design is a silicon device with a one millimeter mirror at the center. This mirror is connected to small flexures that allow it to oscillate vertically and horizontally to capture (imaging) or reproduce (display) an image pixel-by-pixel. Our PicoP scanning technology creates a brilliant, full color, high-contrast, uniform display over the entire field-of-view, from a small and thin package. We believe that our proprietary technology offers significant advantages over traditional display and image capture systems. Depending on the specific product application, these advantages may include:

1 Ability to perform projection and three-dimensional sensing and image capture from a single device; Focus-free operation; HD resolution; Low power requirements to enable battery operated devices and applications; Large screen size up to 200 inches from short distances; Small and thin package size; High-brightness, high-dynamic range, and brightness uniformity; and Rich, saturated color reproduction. In addition to these advantages, an overarching benefit of our PicoP scanning technology is its ability to offer a key combination of lumens per watt per cubic centimeter: In essence, more lumens at lower power in a smaller form factor. Competing technologies may offer more lumens in total but not in as small and power efficient design as our PicoP scanning technology. This combination is of particular importance for small, portable devices operated by battery. Equally important for consumer ease-of-use and for mobile projection applications is the focus-free attribute of our PicoP scanning technology. 

Business Strategy

Our business strategy is to commercialize our PicoP&#174; scanning technology by enabling ODMs and OEMs to produce scanning engines by licensing our technology to those ODMs and OEMs, and by selling key scanning engine components to them, as needed. This approach will allow the ODMs and OEMs to integrate and embed our technology across a broad range of display and image capture product applications. We create product concept reference designs to enable ODMs and OEMs to develop and rapidly build products that capitalize on the benefits of our PicoP scanning technology. We are also developing value-added applications intended to help our customers differentiate their potential products. The key elements of our business strategy include the following:

Continue to improve the performance of our PicoP scanning technology platform by advancing the optical system, drive electronics hardware and software design; Develop value-added features that complement our core technology; Partner with ODMs and OEMs to help them develop scanning engines based on our technology, and to help them integrate the engines into their products; Support ODMs to ensure availability of high-quality scanning engines in quantities to support the consumer electronics market; Supply key scanning engine components for products being developed by ODMs and OEMs who license our PicoP scanning technology and/or license rights to ODMs and OEMs to produce such components; and Maintain a position of LBS leadership with our intellectual property around our PicoP scanning technology. Markets for Our Technology

Our approach is to create a platform centered on the core capabilities and features of PicoP&#174; scanning technology that can support multiple applications and markets. We see pico projection and automotive head up display (HUD) as the most promising applications for our technology, and we have concentrated in these areas over the past several years. We believe augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR) eyewear displays and three-dimensional sensing and image capture applications can also benefit from our technology, and we are actively exploring these opportunities. 

Our primary objective for the pico projection market is to enable a large screen viewing experience produced by a small projector for mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets and other consumer electronics products. The scanning engine can either be embedded in the mobile device directly or in a small standalone companion product that is paired with the mobile device wirelessly or via a protocol such as HDMI. These potential products would allow users to watch digital videos, play games, and display images and other data onto a variety of surfaces, freeing users from the limitations of a small screen. Products that incorporate our PicoP scanning technology have been announced by our licensees and their customers in 2015. 

For the automotive market, an engine using our PicoP scanning technology could be combined with other components and systems to form a HUD system to be embedded into a vehicle or integrated into a portable, standalone aftermarket HUD. We have produced prototypes that demonstrate the ability of PicoP scanning technology to project high-resolution virtual images in the driver's field-of-view, providing the driver with a variety of information related to the vehicle's operation. We have also begun to investigate opportunities to apply our technology to emerging applications for in-car connectivity and infotainment systems.

2 Another possible application area for our PicoP scanning technology that we have refocused on in the past year is eyewear displays, also known as AR and VR. We have a long history with this application, and the eyewear ecosystem has progressed to a point where we see future growth opportunities. We are in the exploratory phases with prospective customers in identifying which AR and VR applications offer the most promise for our technology inside their future products. 

In addition to the display and projection applications, our PicoP scanning technology has the ability to capture three-dimensional information. We believe there are market opportunities to use our technology to capture images and sense objects. We are in the early stages of identifying these opportunities and developing plans with prospective customers to leverage our competitive advantages in these areas. 

Products and Services

In 2015, our revenue was primarily derived from the sale of our proprietary components and license and royalty fees for PicoP&#174; scanning technology. The key components we offer for inclusion in a scanning engine are our MEMS and Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs). Our licensees can purchase none, some, or all of the key components we offer depending on their capability and desire to manufacture them and the terms of the licensing agreement. In our business model, license and royalty can be standalone fees separate from the component prices, or in some cases, included in the component pricing.

In addition to product sales and license and royalty fees, we generate revenue from engineering services for custom development and support services for our customers. Historically, our engineering services from collaborative research and development and contract agreements have been a significant portion of our total revenue. In 2015, we transitioned our focus more to product sales and royalty revenue, and engineering services has become a smaller part of our business. We expect product sales and royalty revenue to be a significant portion of our total revenue in the future.

Research and Development

We believe our research and development efforts have placed us in a leadership position in the field of LBS technology as applied to consumer electronics, automotive and other markets. Our ability to attract customers and grow revenue will depend on our ability to maintain our LBS technology leadership, continually improve performance, reduce costs, reduce the size of component parts and scanning engines, and increase the number of applications and products enabled by our PicoP&#174; scanning technology.

Our research and development team is located in Redmond, Washington and as of December 31, 2015, was comprised of 41 engineering and technical staff in optics, software engineering, electrical engineering, and MEMS design.

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach is account based, business-to-business targeting of ODMs and OEMs. We license our PicoP&#174; scanning technology and sell components used in the production of scanning engines. Our customers are typically companies that produce scanning engines incorporating our patented PicoP scanning technology. We also engage end product manufacturers and retailers in our target markets to educate them about product opportunities based on our PicoP scanning technology. From these efforts, we work with our licensees to pair them with the end product companies that are interested in proceeding with a product or products incorporating PicoP scanning technology. 

We currently have sales representatives, primarily based in the United States, focused on business development in the Americas, Europe and Asia. Our sales representatives are supported by a technical sales engineering team that assists customers during the &#34;design win&#34; and &#34;design in&#34; cycles. The technical sales engineering team operates from Redmond, Washington. Our marketing team is located in Redmond, Washington. We engage potential customers directly, participate in trade shows, use social media, and maintain a website. 

3 Manufacturing

We currently use contract manufacturers to produce the products we sell to our licensees. Our products are components that are integral to a scanning engine incorporating our PicoP&#174; scanning technology and include MEMS and ASICs that incorporate our designs and are produced to order by semiconductor foundries. The MEMS die that are manufactured by a contract manufacturer are consigned to a separate contract manufacturer for assembly into a MEMS package according to our specifications.

Our manufacturing is not currently subject to seasonal variations as our shipments have been relatively small and are in the early stages of product introduction. In the future, depending on our customers' product mix, we may be affected by seasonal fluctuations which could affect working capital demands. 

We provide forecasts that allow our contract manufacturers to stock component parts and other materials and plan capacity. Our contract manufacturers procure raw materials in volumes consistent with our forecasts, manufacture and/or assemble the products and perform tests according to our specifications. Products are either shipped to our customers or shipped to our Redmond, Washington headquarters to be inventoried as finished goods. With the exception of the MEMS die we consign and retain title to, we generally do not own any raw materials procured by our contract manufacturers. Title to the products transfers from our contract manufacturers to us and then to our customers upon shipment from the manufacturer. If raw materials are unused, or the products are not sold within specified periods of time, we may incur carrying charges or obsolete material charges for component parts that our contract manufacturers purchased to build products to meet our forecasts or customer orders.

Many of the raw materials used in our components are standard to the consumer electronics industry. Our MEMS, MEMS die, and ASICs are currently manufactured to our specifications by separate single-source suppliers.

Human Factors, Ergonomics and Safety

We work with third party independent experts in the field of laser safety to assist in meeting safety specifications. In addition, we monitor developments in the area of permissible laser exposure limits as established by International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) and others. Independent experts have concluded that laser exposure to the eye resulting from use of LBS devices under normal operating conditions would be below the calculated maximum permissible exposure level set by the IEC.

Competitive Conditions

The information display and image capture industry is highly competitive. Potential products incorporating our PicoP&#174; scanning technology will compete with manufacturers of established technologies, such as miniaturized cathode ray tube and flat panel display devices, as well as companies developing new display and image capture technologies. Our competitors include companies such as Texas Instruments, Intel, Micron Technology, Syndiant, and others, some of which have much greater financial, technical and other resources than us. Many of our competitors are currently developing alternative miniature display and image capture technologies. Our competitors may succeed in developing innovative technologies and products that could render our technology or our proposed products commercially infeasible or technologically obsolete.

Pico projectors are an emerging class of miniaturized projectors that are generally handheld, battery operated, mobile projectors. Most of the competing projectors currently on the market are either liquid crystal on silicon (LCOS) panel solutions or Texas Instruments' DLP&#8482; display technology primarily using light-emitting diode (LED) light sources. Each of these projection solutions can create images of varying resolution, brightness, image quality, battery life, and ease of use.

The information display and image capture industry has been characterized by rapid and significant technological advances. Our PicoP scanning technology platform and potential products may not remain competitive with such advances, and we may not have sufficient funds to invest in new technologies, products or processes. Although we believe our technology platform and proposed products could deliver images of a substantially higher quality and resolution from a smaller form factor device than those of commercially available miniaturized liquid crystal displays (LCD) and cathode ray tube based display products, manufacturers of competing technologies may develop further improvements to screen display and image capture technology that could reduce or eliminate the anticipated advantages of our proposed products. 

4 Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights

We create intellectual property from three sources: internal research and development activities, technology acquisitions, and performance on development contracts. The inventions covered by our patent applications generally relate to systems controls in our PicoP&#174; scanning technology, component miniaturization, power reduction, feature enhancements, specific implementation of various system components, and design elements to facilitate mass production. Protecting these key-enabling technologies and components is a fundamental aspect of our strategy to penetrate diverse markets with unique products. As such, we intend to continue to develop our portfolio of proprietary and patented LBS technologies at the system, component, and process levels.

We believe our extensive patent portfolio is the largest, broadest, and earliest filed LBS technology portfolio and includes applications such as automotive HUD, augmented reality, range finding, portable media devices, image capture, and projection applications. We have over 500 issued patents, pending patents and licensed patents worldwide.

Since our inception in 1993, we have acquired under license agreements exclusive rights to various LBS technologies, including, among others, rights related to the ability to superimpose images on the user's field-of-view with a retinal display, and rights related to the design and fabrication of micro-miniature devices using semiconductor fabrication techniques. In some cases, the licensors have retained limited, non-commercial rights with respect to the technology, including the right to use the technology for non-commercial research and for instructional purposes. 

Our ability to compete effectively in the information display and image capture markets may depend, in part, on our ability and the ability of our licensors to maintain the proprietary nature of these technologies.

We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. To protect our rights in these areas, we require all employees, and where appropriate, contractors, consultants, advisors and collaborators, to enter into confidentiality and non-compete agreements. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. 

We have registered the name &#34;PicoP&#174;&#34; and have filed for the registration of various other marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 

Employees

As of March 3, 2016, we had 67 full-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union.

