 Item 1. Business. Company Overview 

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of innovative medicines to address unmet medical needs in central nervous system disorders. We have a portfolio of product opportunities led by our novel drug candidate, NUPLAZID TM (pimavanserin), for which we have reported positive Phase III pivotal trial results in Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis, or PDP, and which has the potential to be the first drug approved in the United States for this condition. NUPLAZID is a selective serotonin inverse agonist, or SSIA, preferentially targeting 5-HT 2A receptors. Through this novel mechanism, NUPLAZID has demonstrated significant efficacy in Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis in our Phase III pivotal trial and has the potential to avoid many of the debilitating side effects of existing antipsychotics, none of which are approved for use in PDP patients. We hold worldwide commercialization rights to pimavanserin. 

We are pursuing Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis as our lead indication for NUPLAZID. In September 2015, we submitted a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for NUPLAZID for the treatment of psychosis associated with Parkinson&#146;s disease, which was accepted for priority review by the FDA on October 30, 2015 with a Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, goal date of May 1, 2016. In January 2016, we announced that the FDA&#146;s Psychopharmacologic Drugs Advisory Committee will review data included in the NDA for NUPLAZID. At the Advisory Committee meeting, scheduled for March 29, 2016, the Advisory Committee will discuss and advise the FDA on the risk-benefit profile of NUPLAZID for the treatment of PDP. In September 2014, we announced that the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation for NUPLAZID for the treatment of Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis. The Breakthrough Therapy designation was created to expedite the development and review of drugs that are intended to treat serious or life-threatening 

&#160; 

conditions. If approved, we intend to commercialize NUPLAZID for Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis in the United States by establishing a specialty sales force focused primarily on physicians who treat PDP patients, including neurologists, psychiatrists and long-term care physicians. 

Our NDA submission is based on data from a comprehensive development program assessing the safety and efficacy of NUPLAZID for Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis. The NDA includes data from the pivotal Phase III -020 Study, in which NUPLAZID met all primary and secondary endpoints with statistical significance, along with supportive data from other studies with NUPLAZID. In the -020 Study, NUPLAZID significantly reduced psychosis compared to placebo in patients with Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis with no worsening of motor function. These results were further supported by significant improvements in all secondary efficacy measures and by significant benefits in exploratory efficacy measures of nighttime sleep, daytime wakefulness and caregiver burden. 

We believe that pimavanserin has the potential to address important unmet medical needs in neurological and psychiatric disorders beyond PDP and we plan to continue to study the use of pimavanserin in multiple disease states. We believe Alzheimer&#146;s disease represents one of our most important opportunities for further exploration. We are currently conducting a Phase II study exploring the utility of pimavanserin for the treatment of Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis, or ADP, a disorder for which no drug is currently approved by the FDA, and expect to complete enrollment of this study around mid-year 2016 and have top-line results of the study in the fourth quarter of 2016. We also plan to initiate a Phase II study in Alzheimer&#146;s disease agitation in the first half of 2016. We also believe that schizophrenia represents a disease with multiple unmet or ill-served needs and we are currently evaluating the most attractive development opportunities there. We have successfully completed a Phase II study of pimavanserin in the treatment of schizophrenia where we observed significant anti-psychotic effects when pimavanserin was co-administered with a low dose of risperidone, a generic drug currently approved for the treatment of schizophrenia. 

We were originally incorporated in Vermont in 1993 as Receptor Technologies, Inc. We reincorporated in Delaware in 1997 and our headquarters are in San Diego, California. We maintain a website at www.acadia-pharm.com , to which we regularly post copies of our press releases as well as additional information about us. Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after being electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Interested persons can subscribe on our website to email alerts that are sent automatically when we issue press releases, file our reports with the SEC or post certain other information to our website. Information contained in our website does not constitute a part of this report or our other filings with the SEC. 

We own or have rights to various trademarks, copyrights and trade names used in our business, including ACADIA &#174; and NUPLAZID&#153;. Our logos and trademarks are the property of ACADIA Pharmaceuticals Inc. All other brand names or trademarks appearing in this report are the property of their respective holders. Use or display by us of other parties&#146; trademarks, trade dress, or products in this report is not intended to, and does not, imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us, by the trademark or trade dress owners. 

Recent Events 

In January 2016, we raised net proceeds of approximately $281.6 million from the sale of 10,344,827 shares of our common stock in a follow-on public offering. 

In September 2015, we submitted an NDA to the FDA for NUPLAZID for the treatment of psychosis associated with Parkinson&#146;s disease. The NDA has been accepted for priority review by the FDA with a PDUFA goal date of May 1, 2016. In January 2016, we announced that the FDA&#146;s Psychopharmacologic Drugs Advisory Committee will review data included in the NDA for NUPLAZID. At the Advisory Committee meeting, scheduled for March 29, 2016, the Advisory Committee will discuss and advise the FDA on the risk-benefit profile of NUPLAZID for the treatment of PDP. 

&#160; 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy is to discover, develop and commercialize innovative small molecule drugs that address unmet medical needs in central nervous system disorders. We have assembled a management team with significant industry experience to lead the discovery, development, and commercialization of our product opportunities. We complement our management team with scientific and clinical advisors, including recognized experts in the fields of Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis, Alzheimer&#146;s disease, schizophrenia, and other central nervous system disorders. Key elements of our strategy are to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Commercialize our lead product candidate, NUPLAZID, for Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis. In September 2015, we submitted an NDA to the FDA for NUPLAZID for the treatment of psychosis associated with Parkinson&#146;s disease, which has been accepted for priority review by the FDA with a PDUFA goal date of May 1, 2016. If approved, NUPLAZID would be the first drug approved by the FDA for the treatment of Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis. If approved, we intend to commercialize NUPLAZID for this indication in the United States by establishing a specialty sales force focused primarily on physicians who treat PDP patients, including neurologists, psychiatrists and long-term care physicians. Outside of the United States, we may choose to commercialize NUPLAZID in selected markets by establishing one or more strategic alliances. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Leverage the commercial potential of pimavanserin by expanding to additional neurological and psychiatric disorders . We intend to pursue the development and commercialization of pimavanserin in additional neurological and psychiatric indications that are underserved by currently available antipsychotics and represent large unmet medical needs. In the second quarter of 2015, we initiated a significant life cycle planning project to assess and prioritize other medically important and attractive development opportunities for pimavanserin. In addition to the ongoing development of pimavanserin in Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis, we plan to initiate a Phase II study in Alzheimer&#146;s disease agitation in the first half of 2016. In addition, we have completed a Phase II study in schizophrenia and through our life cycle planning are assessing various areas of large unmet need in schizophrenia. We will also consider other indications that are a good strategic fit and which have large unmet medical needs. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Seek to in-license or acquire complementary products or product candidates. Although all of the product opportunities currently in our pipeline, including NUPLAZID (pimavanserin) emanate from internal discoveries, in the future we may in-license or acquire assets, which could include clinical-stage product candidates or commercial-stage products, to leverage the sales force that we intend to establish. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Continue to develop our other product candidates for the treatment of central nervous system and related disorders. We plan to continue developing other product candidates. While our resources are currently focused on the development and commercialization of pimavanserin, we plan to pursue additional product candidates in the future. These may be directed at neurological and related central nervous system disorders and may be developed independently or in partnerships. We believe that a diversified portfolio will mitigate risks inherent in drug development and increase the likelihood of our success. 

&#160; 

Our Product Candidates and Programs 

Our portfolio of product opportunities includes product opportunities being explored in clinical development and in advanced preclinical testing. We believe that our product opportunities offer innovative therapeutic approaches and may provide significant advantages relative to current therapies. The following table summarizes our product opportunities and programs: 

&#160;

NUPLAZID (Pimavanserin) 

Pimavanserin is a new chemical entity that we discovered and that has successfully completed Phase III development, positioning it to be potentially the first drug approved in the United States for the treatment of Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis. During 2014, the FDA provisionally accepted NUPLAZID as the trade name for pimavanserin. NUPLAZID (pimavanserin) is a selective serotonin inverse agonist preferentially targeting the 5-HT 2A receptor, a key serotonin receptor that plays an important role in psychosis. Through this novel mechanism, NUPLAZID has demonstrated significant efficacy in Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis in our Phase III pivotal trial and has the potential to avoid many of the debilitating side effects of existing antipsychotics, none of which are approved for use in PDP patients. We hold worldwide commercialization rights to NUPLAZID (pimavanserin) for all indications and have established a broad patent portfolio, which includes numerous issued patents in the United States, Europe, and several additional countries. 

In September 2015, we submitted an NDA to the FDA for NUPLAZID for the treatment of psychosis associated with Parkinson&#146;s disease, which was accepted for priority review by the FDA on October 30, 2015 with a PDUFA goal date of May 1, 2016. In January 2016, we announced that the FDA&#146;s Psychopharmacologic Drugs Advisory Committee will review data included in the NDA for NUPLAZID and will hold a meeting, scheduled for March 29, 2016, to discuss and advise the FDA on the risk-benefit profile of NUPLAZID for the treatment of PDP. In 2014, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation for NUPLAZID for the treatment of Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis. The Breakthrough Therapy designation was created by the FDA to expedite the development and review of drugs that are intended to treat serious or life-threatening conditions. If approved, we intend to commercialize NUPLAZID for Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis in the United States by establishing a specialty sales force focused primarily on physicians who treat PDP patients, including neurologists, psychiatrists and long-term care physicians. We have established our core commercial team, and we are currently expanding our commercial organization in preparation for the planned future launch of NUPLAZID. During 2015, we expanded our existing infrastructure to support the planned launch and commercialization of NUPLAZID by adding to our commercial level manufacturing, field sales management, managed markets, medical affairs, quality control and compliance capabilities. In addition, we plan to hire a commercial sales force to coincide approximately with a NUPLAZID approval, if any. It is anticipated that the recommended dosing of NUPLAZID, if approved, will be two 17 mg tablets taken together once a day. 

&#160; 

NUPLAZID as a Treatment for Parkinson&#146;s Disease Psychosis 

Parkinson&#146;s disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer&#146;s disease. According to the National Parkinson Foundation, about one million people in the United States and between four to six million people globally suffer from this disease. Parkinson&#146;s disease is more common in people over 60 years of age and the prevalence of this disease is expected to increase significantly as the population ages. 

Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis is a debilitating disorder commonly characterized by visual hallucinations and delusions that afflicts about 40 percent of the one million Parkinson&#146;s disease patients in the United States. The development of psychosis in patients with Parkinson&#146;s disease substantially contributes to the burden of Parkinson&#146;s disease and deeply affects their quality of life. Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis is associated with a diminished quality of life, nursing home placement, and increased caregiver stress and burden. 

The FDA has not approved any drug to treat Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis. Therefore, despite substantial limitations, physicians frequently resort to off-label use of currently marketed antipsychotic drugs, including Seroquel and clozapine, to treat patients with Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis. These drugs are associated with a number of side effects, which can be especially problematic for elderly patients with Parkinson&#146;s disease. 

The only currently marketed antipsychotic drug that has demonstrated efficacy in reducing psychosis in patients with Parkinson&#146;s disease without further impairing motor function is clozapine when given at low doses. Studies suggest that this unique clinical utility of low-dose clozapine arises from its potent blocking of a key serotonin receptor, a protein that responds to the neurotransmitter serotonin, known as the 5-HT 2A receptor. The use of low-dose clozapine has been approved in Europe, but not in the United States, for the treatment of psychotic disorders in Parkinson&#146;s disease. However, routine use of clozapine is limited by safety concerns, including its potential to cause a rare, and potentially fatal, blood disorder that necessitates stringent blood monitoring. Currently, there is a large unmet medical need for new therapies that will effectively treat psychosis in patients with Parkinson&#146;s disease without compromising motor control or causing other serious side effects in this elderly and fragile patient population. 

NUPLAZID provides an innovative, non-dopaminergic approach and, we believe, has the potential to be the first safe and effective drug that will treat Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis without compromising motor control, thereby significantly improving the quality of life for patients with Parkinson&#146;s disease. 

In November 2012, we announced successful top-line results from our pivotal Phase III -020 Study, evaluating the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of NUPLAZID in patients with Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis. Results from the -020 Study were presented at the American Academy of Neurology Meeting in March 2013, and published in The Lancet, a peer-reviewed medical journal, in November 2013. The -020 Study was a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. A total of 199 patients were enrolled in the study and randomized on a one-to-one basis to receive either 34 mg of NUPLAZID (the equivalent of 40mg of pimavanserin tartrate) or placebo once-daily for six weeks, following a two-week screening period that included brief psycho-social therapy. Patients also received stable doses of their existing anti-Parkinson&#146;s therapy throughout the study. 

NUPLAZID met the primary endpoint in the -020 Study by demonstrating a highly significant reduction in psychosis (p=0.001) as measured using the SAPS-PD, a scale consisting of nine items from the hallucinations and delusions domains of the Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms. These results were further supported by highly significant improvements in all secondary efficacy measures, including the Clinical Global Impression Severity, or CGI-S, scale (p&#60;0.001), the Clinical Global Impression Improvement, or CGI-I, scale (p=0.001), and a CGI-I responder analyses (p=0.008). In addition, statistically significant benefits were observed in exploratory efficacy measures of nighttime sleep, daytime wakefulness and caregiver burden. Consistent with previous studies, data from the -020 Study indicate that NUPLAZID was safe and well tolerated. Importantly, NUPLAZID met the key secondary endpoint for motor tolerability as measured using Parts II and III of the 

&#160; 

Unified Parkinson&#146;s Disease Rating Scale, or UPDRS, suggesting NUPLAZID did not affect motor function when given together with the therapies patients in the study were taking to treat their Parkinson&#146;s motor symptoms. Three deaths occurred in the -020 Study, one in the placebo group and two in the pimavanserin group; all were regarded as unrelated to study drug. Two deaths occurred in our earlier completed Phase III study with pimavanserin for Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis, which tested two active arms, 8.5 mg and 34 mg, of pimavanserin versus placebo on a 1-1-1 basis. There was one death in each of the 8.5 mg and 34 mg arms, each of which was regarded as unrelated to study drug. 

We also are continuing to conduct our open-label safety extension study, referred to as the -015 Study, involving patients with Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis who have completed the -020 Study and our earlier Phase III studies. The -015 Study, together with a similar extension study from our earlier Phase II Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis trial, has generated a considerable amount of long-term safety data on NUPLAZID. A total of over 250 patients have been treated with NUPLAZID for at least one year, and of those at least 170 patients have been treated for at least two years. Our longest single-patient exposure is greater than 10 years. We believe that our experience to date suggests that long-term administration of NUPLAZID is generally safe and well tolerated in this elderly and fragile patient population. 

Pimavanserin as a Treatment for Alzheimer&#146;s Disease Psychosis 

According to the Alzheimer&#146;s Association, an estimated 5.3 million people in the United States have Alzheimer&#146;s disease, with only half being diagnosed, and it is currently the fifth leading cause of death for people age 65 and older. Studies have suggested that approximately 25 to 50 percent of patients diagnosed with Alzheimer&#146;s disease may develop psychosis, commonly consisting of hallucinations and delusions. The diagnosis of Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis is associated with more rapid cognitive and functional decline and increased institutionalization. 

The FDA has not approved any drug to treat Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis. As symptoms progress and become more severe, physicians often resort to off-label use of antipsychotic medications in these patients. In addition to the long-term safety risks, studies have shown the use of atypical antipsychotics doubles the expected rate of cognitive deterioration among Alzheimer&#146;s disease patients. There is a large unmet medical need for a safe and effective therapy to treat the psychosis in patients with Alzheimer&#146;s disease. 

We are in Phase II development with pimavanserin as a potential new treatment for Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis. Patients with Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis and Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis share many characteristics and often exhibit similar psychiatric symptoms associated with their respective underlying neurodegenerative disease. We have shown that pimavanserin attenuates psychosis-related behaviors in preclinical models of Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis. In preclinical models, pimavanserin also has been shown to positively interact with cholinesterase inhibitors to enhance their pro-cognitive effect. Because of its selective mechanism of action and its efficacy and safety profile observed to date in studies conducted in elderly patients with Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis, we believe that pimavanserin also may be ideally suited to address the need for a new treatment for Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis that is safe, effective, and well tolerated. 

In November 2013, we initiated a Phase II trial, referred to as the -019 Study, to examine the efficacy and safety of pimavanserin as a treatment for Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis. The -019 Study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study designed to enroll 200 patients with Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis. Following a screening period that includes brief psycho-social therapy, patients are randomized on a one-to-one basis to receive either 34 mg of pimavanserin (the equivalent of 40mg of pimavanserin tartrate) or placebo once-daily for twelve weeks. The -019 study will assess several key efficacy endpoints, including use of the Neuropsychiatric Inventory&#151;Nursing Home scale to measure psychosis and other behavioral disorders. Key efficacy endpoints will be based on the change at week 6 from baseline. The study will also assess additional exploratory endpoints, including the cognitive status of patients and the durability of response to pimavanserin, through twelve weeks of therapy. We expect to complete enrollment of this study around mid-year 2016. 

&#160; 

Pimavanserin as a Treatment for Alzheimer&#146;s Disease Agitation 

While the diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer&#146;s disease focus mostly on the related cognitive deficits, it is the behavioral and neuropsychiatric symptoms that can be most troublesome for caregivers and lead to poor quality of life for patients. In addition to psychosis, these symptoms include agitation and aggressive behaviors. Alzheimer&#146;s disease agitation and aggression, or collectively AD agitation, is characterized by inappropriate verbal, vocal, or motor activity that can be independent of perceptible needs or confusion, and includes screaming, restlessness, wandering, and strange movements. Agitation and aggression in Alzheimer&#146;s disease patients are a major cause of acute care inpatient hospitalizations and pose a major challenge for patient care. Therefore, the detection, management, and treatment of these symptoms is critical to Alzheimer&#146;s disease patient care. Studies suggest that 40 to 50 percent of patients diagnosed with Alzheimer&#146;s disease in the United States exhibit AD agitation. 

The FDA has not approved any drug for the treatment of agitation in Alzheimer&#146;s disease. Therefore, antipsychotics are frequently used off-label, despite their limited efficacy and associated long term safety risks. Preclinical and clinical studies suggest that blockade of the 5-HT 2A receptor is associated with decreased agitation and aggression. We believe pimavanserin&#146;s selective activity at the 5-HT 2A receptor may confer efficacy in AD agitation. In addition, pimavanserin&#146;s favorable side effect profile observed to date in treating elderly patients with PDP may make it an ideal therapy for AD agitation. We plan to initiate a Phase II study in AD agitation in the first half of 2016. 

Pimavanserin as a Treatment for Schizophrenia 

Schizophrenia is a severe chronic mental illness that involves disturbances in cognition, perception, emotion, and other aspects of behavior. The positive symptoms of schizophrenia include hallucinations and delusions, while the negative symptoms may manifest as loss of interest and emotional withdrawal. Schizophrenia is associated with persistent impairment of a patient&#146;s social functioning and productivity. Cognitive disturbances often prevent patients with schizophrenia from readjusting to society. As a result, patients with schizophrenia are normally required to be under medical care for their entire lives. 

According to the National Institute of Mental Health, approximately one percent of the U.S. population suffers from schizophrenia. Antipsychotic drugs increasingly have been used by physicians to address a range of disorders in addition to schizophrenia, including a variety of psychoses and related conditions in elderly patients. Despite their commercial success, current antipsychotic drugs have substantial limitations, including inadequate efficacy and severe side effects. 

Most schizophrenia patients in the United States today are treated with second-generation, or atypical, antipsychotics, which induce fewer motor disturbances than typical, or first-generation, antipsychotics, but still fail to address most of the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. In addition, currently prescribed treatments do not effectively address or may exacerbate cognitive disturbances associated with schizophrenia. It is believed that the efficacy of atypical antipsychotics is due to their interactions with dopamine and 5-HT 2A receptors. The side effects induced by the atypical agents may include weight gain, non-insulin dependent (type II) diabetes, cardiovascular side effects, sleep disturbances, and motor disturbances. We believe that these side effects generally arise either from non-essential receptor interactions or from excessive dopamine blockade. 

The limitations of currently available antipsychotics result in poor patient compliance. A study conducted by the National Institute of Mental Health, which was published in The New England Journal of Medicine in September 2005, found that 74 percent of patients taking typical or atypical antipsychotics discontinued treatment within 18 months because of side effects or lack of efficacy. We believe there is a large unmet medical need for new therapies that have improved side effect and efficacy profiles. 

Pimavanserin&#146;s selective blockade of the 5-HT 2A receptor may enable it to be used in certain treatment approaches to improve the therapy for patients with schizophrenia. We published results in 2012 from an earlier multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II trial designed to evaluate pimavanserin as a co-therapy in 

&#160; 

patients with schizophrenia. The trial results showed several advantages of co-therapy with pimavanserin and a 2 mg, or low, dose of risperidone in patients with schizophrenia. These advantages included efficacy comparable to that of a 6 mg, or standard, dose of risperidone, combined with a faster onset of antipsychotic action and an improved side effect profile, including significantly less weight gain, compared to the standard dose of risperidone. We are currently assessing areas of large unmet need in schizophrenia. 

Adrenergic and Muscarinic Programs 

In collaboration with Allergan, we have discovered small molecule product candidates for the treatment of chronic pain. Chronic pain is a common form of persistent pain that may be related to a number of medical conditions and is often resistant to treatment. Our novel alpha adrenergic agonists provide pain relief in a range of preclinical models, without the side effects of current pain therapies, including sedation and cardiovascular and respiratory effects. Allergan has conducted several Phase II trials in this program and has reported preliminary results, including positive proof-of-concept in a visceral pain trial in patients that had hypersensitivity of the esophagus, and efficacy signals in two chronic pain trials in the areas of fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome. Allergan has announced that it is seeking a partner for the further development of this program and for commercialization in areas predominantly served by general practitioners. 

Under our muscarinic collaboration with Allergan that terminated in 2015, we discovered small molecule product candidates for the treatment of glaucoma. Glaucoma is a chronic eye disease and is the second leading cause of blindness in the world. We identified a subtype of the muscarinic receptors that controls intraocular pressure and discovered lead compounds that selectively activate this target. In preclinical models, our product candidates have demonstrated a promising preclinical profile, including robust efficacy and a long duration of action. This program has reached Phase I development. 

In November 2015, Allergan announced it entered into an agreement with Pfizer Inc. under which Pfizer will acquire Allergan. We do not know what impact, if any, Pfizer&#146;s acquisition of Allergan will have on our remaining chronic pain program with Allergan or Allergan&#146;s performance thereunder. 

Competition 

We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as numerous academic and research institutions and governmental agencies, both in the United States and abroad. We compete, or will compete, with existing and new products being developed by our competitors. Some of these competitors are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases and conditions that our research and development programs target. 

Even if we are successful in developing pimavanserin and gaining FDA approval of NUPLAZID, it would compete with a variety of established drugs in the areas of Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis, Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis, Alzheimer&#146;s disease agitation, and schizophrenia. For example, NUPLAZID for the treatment of Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis would compete with off-label use of antipsychotic drugs, including generic drugs quetiapine and clozapine. 

Pimavanserin for Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis would compete with off-label use of antipsychotic drugs, including risperidone and quetiapine, and drugs indicated for the treatment of Alzheimer&#146;s disease and dementia in patients with Alzheimer&#146;s disease, including Aricept, marketed by Eisai Inc. and Pfizer Inc., and Namenda, marketed by Forest Laboratories, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Actavis. Pimavanserin for Alzheimer&#146;s disease agitation would compete with off-label use of antipsychotic drugs, including risperidone and quetiapine. Pimavanserin for the treatment of schizophrenia would compete with Rexulti, marketed by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Latuda, marketed by Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc., and generic drugs olanzapine, risperidone, aripiprazole and clozapine. 

Our potential products for the treatment of chronic pain would compete with Lyrica, marketed by Pfizer Inc., and Cymbalta, marketed by Eli Lilly, as well as with a variety of generic or proprietary opioids. Currently, 

&#160; 

the leading drugs approved for chronic pain indications include Lyrica, the successor to Neurontin (gabapentin, now a generic drug), and Cymbalta, now generic in the United States. 

Our potential products for the treatment of glaucoma would compete with Xalatan, marketed by Pfizer, and Lumigan and Alphagan, marketed by Allergan. Xalatan (latanoprost) is now generic. 

In addition, the companies described above and other competitors may have a variety of drugs in development or awaiting FDA approval that could reach the market and become established before we have a product to sell. Our competitors may also develop alternative therapies that could further limit the market for any drugs that we may develop. Many of our competitors are using technologies or methods different or similar to ours to identify and validate drug targets and to discover novel small molecule drugs. Many of our competitors and their collaborators have significantly greater experience than we do in the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; identifying and validating targets; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; screening compounds against targets; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; preclinical studies and clinical trials of potential pharmaceutical products; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. 

In addition, many of our competitors and their collaborators have substantially greater advantages in the following areas: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; capital resources; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; research and development resources; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; manufacturing capabilities; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; sales and marketing. 

Smaller companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through proprietary research discoveries and collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and established biotechnology companies. Many of our competitors have products that have been approved or are in advanced development and may develop superior technologies or methods to identify and validate drug targets and to discover novel small molecule drugs. We face competition from other companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific, sales and marketing, and management personnel and for licenses to additional technologies. Our competitors, either alone or with their collaborators, may succeed in developing technologies or drugs that are more effective, safer, and more affordable, or more easily administered than ours and may achieve patent protection or commercialize drugs sooner than us. Our competitors may also develop alternative therapies that could further limit the market for any drugs that we may develop. Our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Intellectual Property 

We currently hold 45 issued U.S. patents and 234 issued foreign patents. All of these patents originated from inventions made by us. In addition, we have 11 provisional and utility U.S. patent applications and 46 foreign patent applications. 

Patents and other proprietary intellectual property rights are an essential element of our business. Our strategy is to file patent applications in the United States and any other country that represents an important potential commercial market to us. In addition, we seek to protect our technology, inventions and improvements to inventions that are important to the development of our business. Our patent applications claim proprietary technology, including novel methods of screening and chemical synthetic methods, novel drug targets and novel compounds identified using our technology. 

&#160; 

We also rely upon trade secret rights to protect technologies that may be used to discover and validate targets and that may be used to identify and develop novel drugs. We protect our trade secrets by, among other things, requiring employees and third parties who have access to our proprietary information to sign confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements. We have entered into a license agreement, dated as of November 30, 2006, for certain intellectual property rights from the Ipsen Group in order to expand and strengthen the intellectual property portfolio for our serotonin platform, including pimavanserin. In connection with the FDA&#146;s acceptance of the filing of the NDA for NUPLAZID in the fourth quarter of 2015, we paid a $2.5 million milestone to Ipsen, adjusted for credits for prior payments made by us to Ipsen, pursuant to the terms of the 2006 license agreement. If the NDA is approved, an additional $8.0 million milestone would be payable to Ipsen pursuant to the terms of the 2006 license agreement. In addition, if we are able to successfully market and sell NUPLAZID, we would pay to Ipsen royalties of up to two percent of net product sales pursuant to the agreement. We are a party to various other license agreements that give us rights to use certain technologies in our research and development. 

Pimavanserin 

Twenty-two U.S. patents have been issued to us that provide protection for pimavanserin, including two that cover the compound generically and 13 that specifically cover pimavanserin, salts and polymorphs thereof, the use thereof for treating Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis, Alzheimer&#146;s disease psychosis, Alzheimer&#146;s disease indications, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, Lewy body disease, sleep disorders, and other methods of treatment. These patents also provide protection for certain methods of producing pimavanserin. The pimavanserin-specific patent and the Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis treatment patent provide protection until June 2027 and 2026, respectively. The patent that covers polymorphs of pimavanserin provides protection until June 2028. The patents that cover pimavanserin generically expire in 2021. Our estimation of the above patent terms includes patent term adjustments made by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, but not patent term extensions. These patent terms may be subject to change based on new interpretations of the law. We have 56 issued foreign patents that specifically cover pimavanserin, including patents in 38 European countries, Australia, Canada, China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore and South Africa, which provide patent protection until 2024. We also have 53 issued foreign patents that cover polymorphs of pimavanserin and provide patent protection until 2025. We continue to prosecute patent applications directed to pimavanserin and to methods of treating various diseases using pimavanserin, either alone or in combination with other agents, worldwide. 

Alpha Adrenergic Program 

We have not been issued, and are not pursuing, patents covering the compounds being pursued by Allergan under this collaboration as the compounds are covered by Allergan patents. 

Muscarinic Program 

We have three U.S. patents that have been issued to us providing coverage for the compounds that were covered by our collaboration with Allergan for the treatment of glaucoma that terminated in 2015. These U.S. patents will expire in 2023. We have 51 issued foreign patents and 10 pending foreign applications that cover these compounds. The issued foreign patents for this program will expire in 2022 and 2025. In addition we have 14 U.S. and foreign patent applications recently filed covering additional compounds from the glaucoma collaboration. 

Collaboration Agreements 

Historically, we have been a party to various collaboration agreements with Allergan and other parties to leverage our drug discovery platform and related assets, and to advance development of and commercialize selected product candidates. These collaborations have typically included upfront payments at initiation of the collaboration, research support during the research term, if applicable, milestone payments upon successful completion of specified development objectives, and royalties based upon future sales, if any, of drugs developed under the collaboration. 

&#160; 

In September 1997, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Allergan focused primarily on the discovery and development of new adrenergic therapeutics for pain and ophthalmic indications. This agreement, as amended, provides for the continued development of product candidates for one target area. We are restricted from conducting competing research in that target area. Pursuant to the agreement, we granted Allergan exclusive worldwide rights to commercialize products resulting from the collaboration. We had received an aggregate of $10.5 million in payments, consisting of research funding and milestone payments, through December 31, 2015 under this agreement. We are eligible to receive additional milestone payments of up to $10.0 million in the aggregate upon the achievement of development and regulatory milestones as well as royalties on future net product sales worldwide, if any. In connection with the execution of the collaboration agreement in 1997, Allergan made a $6.0 million equity investment in us. The general term of this agreement with Allergan continues until the later of the expiration of the last to expire patent covering a product licensed under the collaboration and at least 10 years from the date of first commercial sale of a product. In addition, our Allergan collaboration agreement includes a research term that is shorter but may be renewed if agreed to by the parties. 

In November 2015, Allergan announced it entered into an agreement with Pfizer Inc. under which Pfizer will acquire Allergan. We do not know what impact, if any, Pfizer&#146;s acquisition of Allergan will have on our adrenergic program with Allergan or Allergan&#146;s performance thereunder. 

Government Regulation 

Our business activities, including the manufacturing and marketing of our potential products and our ongoing research and development activities, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. Before marketing in the United States, any new drug developed by us must undergo rigorous preclinical testing, clinical trials and an extensive regulatory clearance process implemented by the FDA under the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, import, export, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. None of our product candidates has been approved for sale in the United States or any foreign market. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes preclinical testing and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Moreover, if our product candidates are approved by the FDA, government coverage and reimbursement policies will both directly and indirectly impact our ability to successfully commercialize our products, and such coverage and reimbursement policies will be impacted by recently enacted and any applicable future healthcare reform measures. In addition, we are subject to state and federal laws, including, among others, anti-kickback laws, false claims laws, data privacy and security laws, and transparency laws that restrict certain business practices in the pharmaceutical industry. 

In the United States, drug product candidates intended for human use undergo laboratory and animal testing until adequate proof of safety is established. Clinical trials for new product candidates are then typically conducted in humans in three sequential phases that may overlap. Phase I trials involve the initial introduction of the product candidate into healthy human volunteers. The emphasis of Phase I trials is on testing for safety or adverse effects, dosage, tolerance, metabolism, distribution, excretion and clinical pharmacology. Phase II involves studies in a limited patient population to determine the initial efficacy of the compound for specific targeted indications, to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, and to identify possible adverse side effects and safety risks. Once a compound shows evidence of effectiveness and is found to have an acceptable safety profile in Phase II evaluations, Phase III trials are undertaken to more fully evaluate clinical outcomes. Before commencing clinical investigations in humans, we or our collaborators must submit an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, to the FDA. 

Regulatory authorities, Institutional Review Boards and Data Monitoring Committees may require additional data before allowing the clinical studies to commence, continue or proceed from one phase to another, and could demand that the studies be discontinued or suspended at any time if there are significant safety issues. We have in the past and may in the future rely on some of our collaborators to file INDs and generally direct the 

&#160; 

regulatory approval process for our potential products. Clinical testing must also meet requirements for clinical trial registration, institutional review board oversight, informed consent, health information privacy, and good clinical practices, or GCPs. Additionally, the manufacture of our drug product, must be done in accordance with current good manufacturing practices, or GMPs. 

To establish a new product candidate&#146;s safety and efficacy, the FDA requires companies seeking approval to market a drug product to submit extensive preclinical and clinical data, along with other information, for each indication for which the product will be labeled. The data and information are submitted to the FDA in the form of a New Drug Application, or NDA. Generating the required data and information for an NDA takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Information generated in this process is susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval at any stage of the process. The failure to demonstrate adequately the quality, safety and efficacy of a product candidate under development would delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product candidate. Under applicable laws and FDA regulations, each NDA submitted for FDA approval is given an internal administrative review within 60 days following submission of the NDA. If deemed sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review, the FDA will &#147;file&#148; the NDA. The FDA can refuse to file any NDA that it deems incomplete or not properly reviewable. The FDA has established internal goals of eight months from submission for priority review of NDAs that cover product candidates that offer major advances in treatment or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists, and 12 months from submission for the standard review of NDAs. However, the FDA is not legally required to complete its review within these periods, these performance goals may change over time and the review is often extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. Moreover, the outcome of the review, even if generally favorable, may not be an actual approval but a &#147;complete response letter&#148; that describes additional work that must be done before the NDA can be approved. Before approving an NDA, the FDA can choose to inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured and will not approve the product unless the manufacturing facility complies with GMPs. The FDA may also audit sites at which clinical trials have been conducted to determine compliance with GCPs and data integrity. The FDA&#146;s review of an NDA may also involve review and recommendations by an independent FDA advisory committee, particularly for novel indications, such as Parkinson&#146;s disease psychosis. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee. 

In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy, regulations or statutes governing product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. 

Before receiving FDA approval to market a potential product, we or our collaborators must demonstrate through adequate and well-controlled clinical studies that the potential product is safe and effective in the patient population that will be treated. In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, an NDA or supplement to an NDA must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective, unless a waiver applies. If regulatory approval of a potential product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is approved. Marketing or promoting a drug for an unapproved indication is generally prohibited. Furthermore, FDA approval may entail ongoing requirements for risk management, including post-marketing studies. Even if approval is obtained, a marketed product, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to payment of significant annual fees and continuing review and periodic inspections by the FDA. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including labeling changes, warning letters, costly recalls or withdrawal of the product from the market. 

Any drug is likely to produce some toxicities or undesirable side effects in animals and in humans when administered at sufficiently high doses and/or for sufficiently long periods of time. Unacceptable toxicities or side effects may occur at any dose level at any time in the course of studies in animals designed to identify unacceptable effects of a product candidate, known as toxicological studies, or during clinical trials of our 

&#160; 

potential products. The appearance of any unacceptable toxicity or side effect could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of any of our product candidates. Further, such unacceptable toxicity or side effects could ultimately prevent a potential product&#146;s approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications or limit any labeling claims, even if the product is approved. 

In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require an applicant to develop a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS. A REMS uses risk minimization strategies beyond the professional labeling to ensure that the benefits of the product outweigh the potential risks. To determine whether a REMS is needed, the FDA will consider the size of the population likely to use the product, seriousness of the disease, expected benefit of the product, expected duration of treatment, seriousness of known or potential adverse events, and whether the product is a new molecular entity. REMS can include medication guides, physician communication plans for healthcare professionals, and elements to assure safe use, or ETASU. ETASU may include, but are not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring, and the use of patient registries. The FDA may require a REMS before approval or post-approval if it becomes aware of a serious risk associated with use of the product. The requirement for a REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of a product. 

Any trade name that we intend to use for a potential product must be approved by the FDA irrespective of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The FDA conducts a rigorous review of proposed product names, and may reject a product name if it believes that the name inappropriately implies medical claims or if it poses the potential for confusion with other product names. The FDA will not approve a trade name until the NDA for a product is approved. If the FDA determines that the trade names of other products that are approved prior to the approval of our potential products may present a risk of confusion with our proposed trade name, the FDA may elect to not approve our proposed trade name. If our trade name is rejected, we will lose the benefit of any brand equity that may already have been developed for this trade name, as well as the benefit of our existing trademark applications for this trade name. 

We and our collaborators and contract manufacturers also are required to comply with the applicable FDA GMP regulations. GMP regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by the FDA. These facilities must be approved before we can use them in commercial manufacturing of our potential products. The FDA may conclude that we or our collaborators or contract manufacturers are not in compliance with applicable GMP requirements and other FDA regulatory requirements, which may result in delay or failure to approve applications, warning letters, product recalls and/or imposition of fines or penalties. 

If the product is approved, we must also comply with post-marketing requirements, including, but not limited to, compliance with advertising and promotion laws enforced by various government agencies, including the FDA&#146;s Office of Prescription Drug Promotion, through such laws as the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, federal and state anti-fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, healthcare information privacy and security laws, post-marketing safety surveillance, and disclosure of payments or other transfers of value to healthcare professionals and entities. In addition, we are subject to other federal and state regulation including, for example, the implementation of corporate compliance programs. 

In order to distribute products commercially, we must comply with state laws that require the registration of manufacturers and wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products in a state, including, in certain states, manufacturers and distributors who ship products into the state even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. Some states also impose requirements on manufacturers and distributors to establish the pedigree of product in the chain of distribution, including some states that require manufacturers and others to adopt new technology capable of tracking and tracing product as it moves through the distribution chain. 

&#160; 

Outside of the United States, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. At present, foreign marketing authorizations are applied for at a national level, although within the European Community, or EC, centralized registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product in more than one EC member state. If the regulatory authority is satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy has been presented, marketing authorization will be granted. This foreign regulatory approval process involves all of the risks associated with FDA marketing approval discussed above. In addition, foreign regulations may include applicable post-marketing requirements, including safety surveillance, anti-fraud and abuse laws, and implementation of corporate compliance programs and reporting of payments or other transfers of value to healthcare professionals and entities. 

Drugs for Serious or Life-Threatening Illnesses 

In 2012, Congress enacted the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA. This law established a new regulatory scheme allowing for expedited review of products designated as &#147;breakthrough therapies&#148;. A product may be designated as a breakthrough therapy if it is intended, either alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. The FDA may take certain actions with respect to breakthrough therapies, including holding meetings with the sponsor throughout the development process, providing timely advice to the product sponsor regarding development and approval, involving more senior staff in the review process, assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the review team, and taking other steps to design the clinical trials in an efficient manner. FDA regulations also provide certain mechanisms to expedite approval of potential products intended to treat serious or life-threatening illnesses which have been studied for safety and effectiveness and which demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs. Under accelerated approval regulations, NDAs may be approved on the basis of valid surrogate markers of product effectiveness, thus accelerating the normal approval process. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a product subject to accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies. In addition, the FDA currently requires as a condition for accelerated approval pre-approval of promotional materials, which could adversely impact the timing of the commercial launch of the product. In addition, the FDA may impose restrictions on distribution and/or promotion in connection with any accelerated approval, and may withdraw approval if post-approval studies do not confirm the intended clinical benefit or safety of the potential product. 

Coverage and Reimbursement 

Sales of our product candidates, if approved, will depend, in part, on the extent to which such products will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health care programs, commercial insurance and managed healthcare organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly limiting coverage and/or reducing reimbursements for medical products and services. A third-party payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Further, one payor&#146;s determination to provide coverage for a drug product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage for the drug product. In addition, the U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have continued implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit our net revenue and results. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our product candidates or a decision by a third-party payor to not cover our product candidates could reduce physician usage of our products candidates, once approved, and have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. 

&#160; 

In the United States, the Medicare Part D program provides a voluntary outpatient drug benefit to Medicare beneficiaries for certain products. We expect NUPLAZID, if approved, will be available for coverage under Medicare Part D, but the extent to which the individual Part D plans may offer coverage may be subject to various factors such as those described above. In addition, while Medicare Part D has historically required Medicare Part D plans to include &#147;all or substantially all&#148; drugs in the following designated classes of &#147;clinical concern&#148; on their formularies: anticonvulsants, antidepressants, antineoplastics, antipsychotics, antiretrovirals, and immunosuppressants, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, recently proposed, but did not adopt, changes to this policy for coverage year 2015. If this policy is changed in the future and if CMS no longer considers the antipsychotic class to be of &#147;clinical concern&#148;, Medicare Part D plans would have significantly more discretion to reduce the number of products covered in that class. Furthermore, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policies and payment limitations in setting their own coverage policies. 

Healthcare Laws and Regulations 

We are currently or will in the future be subject to healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and the states and foreign governments in which we will conduct our business once our product candidates are approved. The healthcare laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The federal Anti-Kickback Statute makes it illegal for any person or entity to knowingly and willfully, directly or indirectly, solicit, receive, offer, or pay any remuneration that is in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase, order, lease of any good, facility, item or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The term &#147;remuneration&#148; has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Federal false claims and false statement laws, including the federal civil False Claims Act, prohibits, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to, or approval by, federal programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, claims for items or services, including drugs, that are false or fraudulent. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The U.S. federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit among other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors or making any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, and their implementing regulations, imposes obligations on certain types of individuals and entities regarding the electronic exchange of information in common healthcare transactions, as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children&#146;s Health Insurance Program, with specific exceptions, to report annually to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. 

Also, many states have similar laws and regulations, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may be broader in scope and may apply regardless of payor, in addition to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs. Additionally, we may be subject to state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the federal government&#146;s and/or pharmaceutical industry&#146;s voluntary compliance guidelines, state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other 

&#160; 

transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures, as well as state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA. 

Additionally, to the extent that our product is sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws. 

Healthcare Reform 

The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. By way of example, in March 2010, the ACA was signed into law, which intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Among the provisions of the ACA of importance to our potential drug candidates are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13.0% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; extension of a manufacturer&#146;s Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer&#146;s Medicaid rebate liability; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts to negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for a manufacturer&#146;s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. 

There have been judicial and Congressional challenges to ACA and there may be additional challenges and amendments to ACA in the future. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the ACA. Through the process created by the Budget Control Act of 2011, there are automatic reductions of Medicare payments to providers up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and, following passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to certain providers. Moreover, recently there has been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their commercial products. For example, in 2015 several U.S. Congressional inquiries were initiated regarding certain drug manufacturers&#146; pricing practices and legislation proposed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and 

&#160; 

reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. We expect that ACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and lower reimbursement, and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. We cannot predict what healthcare reform initiatives may be adopted in the future. 

Research and Development Expenses 

Our research and development expenses were $73.9 million, $60.6 million, and $26.7 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

Manufacturing and Distribution 

We currently outsource, and plan to continue to outsource, manufacturing responsibilities for our existing and future product candidates, including NUPLAZID, for development and commercial purposes. We believe this manufacturing strategy will enable us to direct our financial resources to our commercialization efforts and to the ongoing development of pimavanserin without devoting the resources and capital required to build manufacturing facilities. 

During the first half of 2015, we licensed worldwide intellectual property rights related to pimavanserin in certain indications to ACADIA Pharmaceuticals GmbH, our wholly-owned Swiss subsidiary. Our active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, has been manufactured in Switzerland for over 10 years and we anticipate continuing to manufacture in Switzerland as we transition to a commercial organization. ACADIA Pharmaceuticals GmbH will manage the worldwide supply chain of pimavanserin API. 

During 2015, ACADIA Pharmaceuticals GmbH contracted with BASF Pharma (Evionnaz) SA, which was subsequently acquired by Siegfried Pharma Evionnaz SA, or Siegfried, to manufacture API to be used in the manufacture of NUPLAZID drug product for commercial use. The term of the manufacturing agreement extends through December 31, 2020 and will automatically renew for subsequent one year terms unless either party provides timely notice of its intent not to renew, or unless the manufacturing agreement is terminated earlier pursuant to its terms. Either party may terminate the manufacturing agreement prior to expiration upon the uncured material breach by the other party or upon the dissolution or liquidation of the other party or if the other party makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors. Additionally, ACADIA may terminate the manufacturing agreement in the event of a continuing force majeure event affecting Siegfried or if we cease development, marketing and sales of NUPLAZID. ACADIA also may terminate the manufacturing agreement for any reason on three months&#146; prior notice to Siegfried. 

Also during 2015, we contracted with Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc., or Patheon, to manufacture NUPLAZID drug product for commercial use in the United States following any commercial launch of NUPLAZID, if approved by the FDA. Under the manufacturing agreement, we have agreed to purchase from Patheon a specified percentage of our commercial requirements of NUPLAZID for the United States. The term of the manufacturing agreement extends through December 31, 2020 and will automatically renew for subsequent two-year terms unless either party provides timely notice of its intent not to renew, or unless the manufacturing agreement is terminated early pursuant to its terms. Each party may terminate the manufacturing agreement prior to expiration upon the uncured material breach by the other party, upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party or in the event of a continuing force majeure event affecting the other party. The manufacturing agreement will also terminate if we provide notice to Patheon that we no longer require manufacturing services because NUPLAZID has been discontinued. Additionally, we may terminate the manufacturing agreement, subject to certain limitations, if any regulatory authority takes any action or raises any objection that prevents us from commercializing NUPLAZID or takes an enforcement action against Patheon&#146;s manufacturing site that relates to NUPLAZID or could reasonably be expected to adversely affect Patheon&#146;s ability to supply NUPLAZID, if we determine to discontinue development or commercialization of NUPLAZID for safety or efficacy reasons, or if Patheon uses any debarred person in performing its service obligations under the manufacturing agreement. We 

&#160; 

also may terminate the manufacturing agreement for any other reason on three years&#146; prior notice to Patheon. Additionally, Patheon may terminate the manufacturing agreement if we assign the manufacturing agreement or any of our rights under the manufacturing agreement to a Patheon competitor. 

We have retained third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the distribution of NUPLAZID, including warehousing, customer service, order-taking, invoicing, collections, and shipment and returns processing. 

Sales and Marketing 

We have established our core commercial team that is preparing our organization for the planned future launch of NUPLAZID. This commercial team is comprised of experienced professionals in marketing, access and reimbursement, managed markets, marketing research, commercial operations, and sales force planning and management. During 2015, we hired our sales leadership team, including 12 regional sales managers and 6 account managers. 

We are preparing to build a specialty sales force in the United States of approximately 135 experienced sales professionals. If NUPLAZID is approved, this specialty sales force will focus on promoting NUPLAZID primarily to physicians who treat PDP patients, including neurologists, psychiatrists and long-term care physicians. 

In preparation for a planned launch of NUPLAZID, we launched an ongoing PDP disease awareness campaign in early 2015 that includes educational programs with health care professionals, neurology journal and digital placements, a PDP educational website targeting physicians, and a strong presence at neurology and psychiatric medical meetings. We have also conducted foundational access and reimbursement research with key decision makers for payors covering 300 million lives, of which approximately 30% are covered by each of commercial healthcare payors, Medicare Part D Standard and Medicare Part D Low Income Subsidy, with approximately 10% covered by Medicaid. 

In selected markets outside of the United States in which NUPLAZID may be approved, if any, we may choose to commercialize NUPLAZID independently or by establishing one or more strategic alliances. 

Long-Lived Assets 

Our long-lived assets totaled $2.2 million and $553,000 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. All of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 160 employees. Of our total workforce, 68 are engaged in research and development activities, 52 are engaged in administrative activities such as finance, legal, and information technology, and 40 are engaged in commercial operations and marketing. None of our employees is represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced work stoppages. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

&#160; 

