 ITEM 1. Business 

Overview 

First Commonwealth Financial Corporation (&#8220;First Commonwealth,&#8221; the &#8220;Company&#8221; or &#8220;we&#8221;) is a financial holding company that is headquartered in Indiana, Pennsylvania. We provide a diversified array of consumer and commercial banking services through our bank subsidiary, First Commonwealth Bank (&#8220;FCB&#8221; or the &#8220;Bank&#8221;). We also provide trust and wealth management services and offer insurance products through FCB and our other operating subsidiaries. At December 31, 2015 , we had total assets of $6.6 billion , total loans of $4.7 billion , total deposits of $4.2 billion &#32;and shareholders&#8217; equity of $719.5 million . Our principal executive office is located at 601 Philadelphia Street, Indiana, Pennsylvania 15701, and our telephone number is (724) 349-7220. 

FCB is a Pennsylvania bank and trust company. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank operated 110 &#32;community banking offices throughout western and central Pennsylvania, four community banking offices in Central Ohio, and loan production offices in Akron and Cleveland, Ohio. The largest concentration of our branch offices is located within the greater Pittsburgh metropolitan area in Allegheny, Butler, Washington and Westmoreland counties, while our remaining offices are located in smaller cities, such as Altoona, Johnstown and Indiana, Pennsylvania, and in towns and villages throughout predominantly rural counties. The Bank also operates a network of 116 &#32;automated teller machines, or ATMs, at various branch offices and offsite locations. All of our ATMs are part of the NYCE and MasterCard/Cirrus networks, both of which operate nationwide. The Bank is a member of the Allpoint ATM network, which allows surcharge-free access to over 55,000 ATMs. The Bank is also a member of the &#8220;Freedom ATM Alliance,&#8221; which affords cardholders surcharge-free access to a network of over 670 ATMs in over 50 counties in Pennsylvania, Maryland, New York, West Virginia and Ohio. 

Historical and Recent Developments 

FCB began in 1934 as First National Bank of Indiana with initial capitalization of $255 thousand. First National Bank of Indiana changed its name to National Bank of the Commonwealth in 1971 and became a subsidiary of First Commonwealth in 1983. 

Since the formation of the holding company in 1983, we have grown steadily through the acquisition of smaller banks and thrifts in our market area, including Deposit Bank in 1984, Dale National Bank and First National Bank of Leechburg in 1985, Citizens National Bank of Windber in 1986, Peoples Bank and Trust Company in 1990, Central Bank in 1992, Peoples Bank of Western Pennsylvania in 1993, and Unitas National Bank and Reliable Savings Bank in 1994. In 1995, we merged all of our banking subsidiaries (other than Reliable Savings Bank) into Deposit Bank and renamed the resulting institution &#8220;First Commonwealth Bank.&#8221; We then merged Reliable Savings Bank into FCB in 1997. We acquired Southwest Bank in 1998 and merged it into FCB in 2002. 

We expanded our presence in the Pittsburgh market through the acquisitions of Pittsburgh Savings Bank (dba BankPittsburgh) in 2003, Great American Federal in 2004 and Laurel Savings Bank in 2006. These acquisitions added 27 branches in Allegheny and Butler Counties. 

In recent years, we have primarily focused on organic growth, improving the reach of our franchise and the breadth of our product offering. As part of this strategy, we have opened fourteen de novo branches since 2005, all of which are in the greater Pittsburgh area. As a result of our prior acquisitions and de novo strategy, FCB operates 60 &#32;branches in the Pittsburgh metropolitan statistical area and currently ranks tenth &#32;in deposit market share. 

In 2015, we entered central Ohio through the acquisition of First Community Bank with $102.8 million in assets and four branches in the Columbus area. 

First Commonwealth regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and from time to time conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations, may take place and future merger acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of First Commonwealth&#8217;s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. 

Loan Portfolio 

The Company&#8217;s loan portfolio includes several categories of loans that are discussed in detail below. The Company does not engage in subprime lending. 

Commercial, Financial, Agricultural and Other 

Commercial, financial, agricultural and other loans represent term loans used to acquire business assets or revolving lines of credit used to finance working capital. These loans are generally secured by a first lien position on the borrower&#8217;s business assets as a secondary source of repayment. The type and amount of the collateral varies depending on the amount and terms of the loan, but generally may include accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or other assets. Loans also may be supported by personal guarantees from the principals of the commercial loan borrowers. 

Commercial loans are underwritten for credit-worthiness based on the borrowers&#8217; financial information, cash flow, net worth, prior loan performance, existing debt levels, type of business and the industry in which it operates. Advance rates on commercial loans are generally collateral-dependent and are determined based on the type of equipment, the mix of inventory and the quality of receivables. 

Credit risk for commercial loans can arise from a borrower&#8217;s inability or unwillingness to repay the loan, and in the case of secured loans, from a shortfall in the collateral value in relation to the outstanding loan balance in the event of a default and subsequent liquidation of collateral. The Company&#8217;s Credit Policy establishes loan concentration limits by borrower, geography and industry. 

Commercial Real Estate 

Commercial real estate loans represent term loans secured by owner-occupied and non-owner occupied properties. Commercial real estate loans are underwritten based on an evaluation of each borrower&#8217;s cash flow as the principal source of loan repayment, and are generally secured by a first lien on the property as a secondary source of repayment. Our underwriting process for non-owner occupied properties evaluates the history of occupancy, quality of tenants, lease terms, operating expenses and cash flow. Commercial real estate loans are subject to the same credit evaluation as previously described for commercial loans. Approximately 23% , by principal amount, of our commercial real estate loans involve owner-occupied properties. 

For loans secured by commercial real estate, at origination the Company obtains current and independent appraisals from licensed or certified appraisers to assess the value of the underlying collateral. The Company&#8217;s general policy for commercial real estate loans is to limit the terms of the loans to not more than 10 years with loan-to-value ratios not exceeding 80% on owner-occupied and income producing properties. For non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, the loan terms are generally aligned with the property&#8217;s lease terms and are generally underwritten with a loan-to-value ratio not exceeding 75%. 

Credit risk for commercial real estate loans can arise from economic conditions that could impact market demand, rental rates and property vacancy rates and declines in the collateral value in relation to the outstanding loan balance in the event of a default and subsequent liquidation of collateral. 

&#160; 

Real Estate Construction 

Real estate construction represents financing for real estate development. The underwriting process for these loans is designed to confirm that the project will be economically feasible and financially viable and is generally conducted as though the Company would be providing permanent financing for the project. Development and construction loans are secured by the properties under development or construction, and personal guarantees are typically obtained as a secondary repayment source. The Company considers the financial condition and reputation of the borrower and any guarantors and generally requires a global cash flow analysis in order to assess the overall financial position of the developer. 

Construction loans to residential builders are generally made for the construction of residential homes for which a binding sales contract exists and for which the prospective buyers have been pre-qualified for permanent mortgage financing by either third-party lenders or the Company. These loans are generally for a period of time sufficient to complete construction. The Company no longer provides builder lot development lending. 

Credit risk for real estate construction loans can arise from construction delays, cost overruns, failure of the contractor to complete the project to specifications and economic conditions that could impact demand for or supply of the property being constructed. 

Residential Real Estate Loans 

During the third quarter of 2014, First Commonwealth reentered the residential mortgage business, after a strategic decision in 2005 to discontinue mortgage lending. Residential real estate loans include first lien mortgages used by the borrower to purchase or refinance a principal residence and home equity loans and lines of credit secured by residential real estate. The Company&#8217;s underwriting process for these loans determines credit-worthiness based upon debt-to-income ratios, collateral values and other relevant factors. 

Credit risk for residential real estate loans can arise from a borrower&#8217;s inability or unwillingness to repay the loan or a shortfall in the value of the residential real estate in relation to the outstanding loan balance in the event of a default and subsequent liquidation of the real estate collateral. 

The residential real estate portfolio includes both conforming and non-conforming mortgage loans. Conforming mortgage loans represent loans originated in accordance with underwriting standards set forth by the government-sponsored entities, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association, which serve as the primary purchasers of loans sold in the secondary mortgage market by mortgage lenders. These loans are generally collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate, have loan-to-collateral value ratios of 80% or less (or have mortgage insurance to insure down to 80%), and are made to borrowers in good credit standing. Non-conforming mortgage loans represent loans that generally are not saleable in the secondary market to the government-sponsored entities due to factors such as the credit characteristics of the borrower, the underlying documentation, the loan-to-value ratio, or the size of the loan. The Company does not offer &#8220;subprime,&#8221; &#8220;interest-only&#8221; or &#8220;negative amortization&#8221; mortgages. 

Home equity lines of credit and other home equity loans are originated by the Company for typically up to 90% of the appraised value, less the amount of any existing prior liens on the property. Additionally, the Company&#8217;s credit policy requires borrower FICO scores of not less than 661 and a debt-to-income ratio of not more than 43%. 

Loans to Individuals 

The Loans to Individuals category includes consumer installment loans, personal lines of credit and indirect automobile loans. Credit risk for consumer loans can arise from a borrower&#8217;s inability or unwillingness to repay the loan, and in the case of secured loans, by a shortfall in the value of the collateral in relation to the outstanding loan balance in the event of a default and subsequent liquidation of collateral. 

The underwriting criteria for automobile loans allow for such loans to be made for up to 100% of the purchase price or the retail value of the vehicle as listed by the National Automobile Dealers Association. The terms of the loan are determined by the age and condition of the collateral, and range from 36 to 84 months. Collision insurance policies are required on all automobile loans. The Company also makes other consumer loans, which may or may not be secured. The terms of secured consumer loans generally depend upon the nature of the underlying collateral. Unsecured consumer loans usually do not exceed $35 thousand and have a term of no longer than 36 months. 

Deposits 

Deposits are our primary source of funds to support our revenue-generating assets. We offer traditional deposit products to businesses and other customers with a variety of rates and terms. Deposits at our bank are insured by the FDIC up to statutory limits. We price our deposit products with a view to maximizing our share of each customer&#8217;s financial services business and prudently managing our cost of funds. At December 31, 2015 , we held $4.2 billion &#32;of total deposits, which consisted of $1.1 billion , or 27% , in non-interest bearing checking accounts, $2.5 billion , or 59% , in interest bearing checking accounts, money market and savings accounts, and $0.6 billion , or 14% , in CDs and IRAs. 

Our deposit base is diversified by client type. As of December 31, 2015 , no individual depositor represented more than 1% of our total deposits, and our top ten depositors represented only 1.1% &#32;of our total deposits. The composition of our deposit mix has recently changed with an increased proportion of non-interest-bearing deposits and other transaction accounts and a lower proportion of more expensive time deposits. This shift in deposit mix has been largely responsible for the recent declines in our average cost of deposits to 0.18% &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;from 0.28% &#32;at December 31, 2014 . 

Competition 

The banking and financial services industry is extremely competitive in our market area. We face vigorous competition for customers, loans and deposits from many companies, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, finance companies, credit unions, trust companies, mortgage companies, money market mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment firms. Many of these competitors are significantly larger than us, have greater resources, higher lending limits and larger branch systems and offer a wider array of financial services than us. In addition, some of these competitors, such as credit unions, are subject to a lesser degree of regulation or taxation than that imposed on us. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , First Commonwealth and its subsidiaries employed 1,210 &#32;full-time employees and 101 part-time employees. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The following discussion sets forth the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to financial holding companies, such as First Commonwealth and their subsidiaries. The regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, other customers and the federal deposit insurance fund and not for the protection of security holders. The rules governing the regulation of financial institutions and their holding companies are very detailed and technical. Accordingly, the following discussion is general in nature and is not intended to be complete or to describe all the laws and regulations that apply to First Commonwealth and its subsidiaries. A change in applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Bank Holding Company Regulation 

First Commonwealth is registered as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (&#8220;BHC Act&#8221;), and is subject to supervision and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;FRB&#8221;). 

Acquisitions. &#32;Under the BHC Act, First Commonwealth is required to obtain the prior approval of the FRB before it can merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company or acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank that is not already majority owned by it or acquire direct or indirect ownership, or control of, any voting shares of any bank that is not already majority owned by it, if after such acquisition it would directly or indirectly own or control more than 5% of the voting shares of such bank. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the financial, including capital, position of the combined organization, the risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system, the applicant's performance record under the Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA") and its compliance with fair housing and other consumer protection laws and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. 

Non-Banking Activities. &#32;&#32;In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks and other activities that the FRB has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, bank holding companies that qualify and elect to be financial holding companies such as First Commonwealth may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally, without in either case the prior approval of the FRB. Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance agency activities and making merchant banking investments. 

To maintain financial holding company status, a financial holding company and all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be well capitalized and well managed. A depository institution subsidiary is considered to be well capitalized if it satisfies the requirements for this status discussed in the section captioned Prompt Corrective Action, included elsewhere in this item. A depository institution subsidiary is considered well managed if it received a composite rating and management rating of at least satisfactory in its most recent examination. A financial holding company&#8217;s status will also depend upon its maintaining its status as well capitalized and well managed under applicable FRB regulations. If a financial holding company ceases to meet these capital and management requirements, the FRB&#8217;s regulations provide that the financial holding company must enter into an agreement with the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements. Until the financial holding company returns to compliance, the FRB may impose limitations or conditions on the conduct of its activities, and the company may not commence any of the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies or acquire a company engaged in such financial activities without prior approval of the FRB. If the company does not return to compliance within 180 days, the FRB may require divestiture of the holding company&#8217;s depository institutions. 

In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity permitted by the BHC Act or to acquire a company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHC Act, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have received a rating of at least satisfactory in its most recent examination under the CRA. 

The FRB has the power to order any bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when the FRB has reasonable grounds to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness, safety or stability of any bank subsidiary of the bank holding company. 

Reporting. &#32;Under the BHC Act, First Commonwealth is subject to examination by the FRB and is required to file periodic reports and other information of its operations with the FRB. In addition, under the Pennsylvania Banking Code of 1965, the Pennsylvania Department of Banking has the authority to examine the books, records and affairs of any Pennsylvania bank holding company or to require any documentation deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the Pennsylvania Banking Code. 

Source of Strength Doctrine. &#32;FRB policy has historically required bank holding companies to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) codifies this policy as a statutory requirement. Under this requirement, First Commonwealth is expected to commit resources to support FCB, including at times when First Commonwealth may not be in a financial position to provide such resources. Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. 

Affiliate Transactions. &#32;Transactions between FCB, on the one hand, and First Commonwealth and its other subsidiaries, on the other hand, are regulated under federal banking laws. The Federal Reserve Act imposes quantitative and qualitative requirements and collateral requirements on covered transactions by FCB with, or for the benefit of, its affiliates, and generally requires those transactions to be on terms at least as favorable to FCB as if the transaction were conducted with an unaffiliated third party. Covered transactions are defined by statute to include a loan or extension of credit, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the FRB) from the affiliate, certain derivative transactions that create a credit exposure to an affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. In general, any such transaction by FCB (or its subsidiaries) must be limited to certain thresholds on an individual and aggregate basis and, for credit transactions with any affiliate, must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral. 

SEC Regulations. &#32;First Commonwealth is also under the jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) and various state securities commissions for matters relating to the offer and sale of its securities and is subject to the SEC rules and regulations relating to periodic reporting, proxy solicitation and insider trading. 

Bank Regulation 

FCB is a state bank chartered under the Pennsylvania Banking Code and is not a member of the FRB. As such, FCB is subject to the supervision of, and is regularly examined by, both the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;) and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and is required to furnish quarterly reports to both agencies. The approval of the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and FDIC is also required for FCB to establish additional branch offices or merge with or acquire another banking institution. 

Dividends and Stress Testing. &#32;&#32;First Commonwealth is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. As a bank holding company, First Commonwealth is subject to certain restrictions on its ability to pay dividends under applicable banking laws and regulations. Federal bank regulators are authorized to determine under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank holding company or a bank that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. In particular, federal bank regulators have stated that paying dividends that deplete a banking organization&#8217;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice and that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. In addition, in the current financial and economic environment, the FRB has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. 

A significant portion of our income comes from dividends from our bank, which is also the primary source of our liquidity. In addition to the restrictions discussed above, our bank is subject to limitations under Pennsylvania law regarding the level of dividends that it may pay to us. In general, dividends may be declared and paid only out of accumulated net earnings and may not be declared or paid unless surplus is at least equal to capital. Dividends may not reduce surplus without the prior consent of the Pennsylvania Department of Banking. FCB has not reduced its surplus through the payment of dividends. As of December 31, 2015 , FCB could pay dividends to First Commonwealth of $99.2 million &#32;without reducing its capital levels below "well capitalized" levels and without the approval of the Pennsylvania Department of Banking. 

In October 2012, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB and the FDIC published final rules regarding company-run stress testing. These rules require bank holding companies and banks with average total consolidated assets greater than $10 billion to conduct an annual company-run stress test of capital, consolidated earnings and losses under one base and at least two stress scenarios provided by the federal bank regulators. Although our assets are currently below this threshold, we have nevertheless commenced stress testing to ensure that we are able to meet these requirements in a timely fashion. Neither we nor our bank is currently subject to the stress testing requirements, but we expect that once we are subject to those requirements, the FRB, the FDIC and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities will consider our results as an important factor in evaluating our capital adequacy, and that of our bank, in evaluating any proposed acquisitions and in determining whether any proposed dividends or stock repurchases by us or by our bank may be an unsafe or unsound practice. 

Community Reinvestment. &#32;Under the Community Reinvestment Act, or CRA, a bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with its safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution&#8217;s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. The CRA requires the applicable regulatory agency to assess an institution&#8217;s record of meeting the credit needs of its community. The CRA requires public disclosure of an institution&#8217;s CRA rating and requires that the applicable regulatory agency provide a written evaluation of an institution&#8217;s CRA performance utilizing a four-tiered descriptive rating system. An institution&#8217;s CRA rating is considered in determining whether to grant charters, branches and other deposit facilities, relocations, mergers, consolidations and acquisitions. Performance less than satisfactory may be the basis for denying an application. For its most recent examination, FCB received a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating. 

Consumer Financial Protection. &#32;We are subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws that extensively govern our relationship with our customers. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Service Members Civil Relief Act and these laws&#8217; respective state-law counterparts, as well as state usury laws and laws regarding unfair and deceptive acts and practices. These and other federal laws, among other things, require disclosures of the cost of credit and terms of deposit accounts, provide substantive consumer rights, prohibit discrimination in credit transactions, regulate the use of credit report information, provide financial privacy protections, prohibit unfair, deceptive and abusive practices, restrict our ability to raise interest rates and subject us to substantial regulatory oversight. Violations of applicable consumer protection laws can result in significant potential liability from litigation brought by customers, including actual damages, restitution and attorneys&#8217; fees. Federal bank regulators, state attorneys general and state and local consumer protection agencies may also seek to enforce consumer protection requirements and obtain these and other remedies, including regulatory sanctions, customer rescission rights, action by the state and local attorneys general in each jurisdiction in which we operate and civil money penalties. Failure to comply with consumer protection requirements may also result in our failure to obtain any required bank regulatory approval for merger or acquisition transactions we may wish to pursue or our prohibition from engaging in such transactions even if approval is not required. 

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new, independent federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"), which was granted broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws. The CFPB is also authorized to engage in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. Although all institutions are subject to rules adopted by the CFPB and examination by the CFPB in conjunction with examinations by the institution&#8217;s primary federal regulator, the CFPB has primary examination and enforcement authority over institutions with assets of $10 billion or more. The FDIC has primary responsibility for examination of our bank and enforcement with respect to federal consumer protection laws so long as our bank has total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion, and state authorities are responsible for monitoring our compliance with all state consumer laws. The CFPB also has the authority to require reports from institutions with less than $10 billion in assets, such as our bank, to support the CFPB in implementing federal consumer protection laws, supporting examination activities, and assessing and detecting risks to consumers and financial markets. 

The consumer protection provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the examination, supervision and enforcement of those laws and implementing regulations by the CFPB have created a more intense and complex environment for consumer finance regulation. The CFPB has significant authority to implement and enforce federal consumer finance laws, including the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and new requirements for financial services products provided for in the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the authority to identify and prohibit unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and practices. The review of products and practices to prevent such acts and practices is a continuing focus of the CFPB, and of banking regulators more broadly. The ultimate impact of this heightened scrutiny is uncertain but could result in changes to pricing, practices, products and procedures. It could also result in increased costs related to regulatory oversight, supervision and examination, additional remediation efforts and possible penalties. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act provides the CFPB with broad supervisory, examination and enforcement authority over various consumer financial products and services, including the ability to require reimbursements and other payments to customers for alleged legal violations and to impose significant penalties, as well as injunctive relief that prohibits lenders from engaging in allegedly unlawful practices. The CFPB also has the authority to obtain cease and desist orders providing for affirmative relief or monetary penalties. The Dodd-Frank Act does not prevent states from adopting stricter consumer protection standards. State regulation of financial products and potential enforcement actions could also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Deposit Insurance. &#32;Deposits of FCB are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;). Deposit insurance assessments are based upon average total assets minus average total equity. The insurance assessments are based upon a matrix that takes into account a bank&#8217;s capital level and supervisory rating. The FDIC may terminate deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, 

rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. As an institution with less than $10 billion in assets, FCB&#8217;s assessment rates are based on its risk classification (i.e., the level of risk it poses to the FDIC&#8217;s deposit insurance fund). For institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, assessment rates are calculated using a scorecard that combines the supervisory risk ratings of the institution with certain forward-looking financial measures. These assessment rates are subject to adjustments based upon the insured depository institution&#8217;s ratio of long-term unsecured debt to the assessment base, long-term unsecured debt issued by other insured depository institutions to the assessment base, and brokered deposits to the assessment base. However, the adjustments based on brokered deposits to the assessment base will not apply so long as the institution is well capitalized and has a composite CAMELS rating of 1 or 2. The CAMELS rating system is a bank rating system where bank supervisory authorities rate institutions according to six factors: capital adequacy, asset quality, management quality, earnings, liquidity, and sensitivity to market risk. The FDIC may make additional discretionary assessment rate adjustments. 

In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a new DIF restoration plan to ensure that the fund reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. At least semi-annually, the FDIC will update its loss and income projections for the fund and, if needed, will increase or decrease assessment rates, following notice-and-comment rulemaking if required. In October 2015, the FDIC proposed to impose a surcharge on the quarterly assessments of insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. This surcharge will not impact First Commonwealth. 

Repeal Of Federal Prohibitions On Payment Of Interest On Demand Deposits . The federal prohibition restricting depository institutions from paying interest on demand deposit accounts was repealed effective on July 21, 2011 as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. 

Capital Requirements 

First Commonwealth and FCB are each required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the FRB. The current risk-based capital standards applicable to First Commonwealth and FCB, parts of which are currently in the process of being phased-in, are based on the December 2010 final capital framework for strengthening international capital standards, known as Basel III, of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the &#8220;Basel Committee&#8221;). 

Prior to January 1, 2015, the risk-based capital standards applicable to First Commonwealth and FCB were based on the 1988 Capital Accord, known as Basel I, of the Basel Committee. In July 2013, the federal bank regulators approved final rules (the &#8220;Basel III Capital Rules&#8221;) implementing the Basel III framework as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Basel III Capital Rules substantially revised the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries, including First Commonwealth and FCB, as compared to the Basel I risk-based capital rules. The Basel III Capital Rules became effective for First Commonwealth and FCB on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period for certain provisions). 

The Basel III Capital Rules, among other things: 

&#8226; 

introduce a new capital measure called Common Equity Tier 1 (&#8220;CET1&#8221;); 

&#8226; 

define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital; 

&#8226; 

specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and &#8220;Additional Tier 1 capital&#8221; instruments meeting specified requirements; and 

&#8226; 

expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments as compared to existing regulations. 

Under the Basel III Capital Rules, the initial minimum capital ratios that became effective on January 1, 2015 are as follows: 

&#8226; 

4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets 

&#8226; 

6.0% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets 

&#8226; 

8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets 

&#8226; 

4.0% Tier 1 capital to average quarterly assets 

When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the Basel III Capital Rules will require First Commonwealth and FCB to maintain a 2.5% &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221; to the required ratios of CET1 to risk-weighted assets, Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and Total capital to risk-weighted assets, effectively resulting in minimum ratios of 7.0%, 8.5% and 10.5%, respectively. 

Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

The Basel III Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that could not be realized through net operating loss carrybacks and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. During 2015, First Commonwealth and FCB made a one-time permanent election, as permitted under Basel III Capital Rules, to exclude the effects of accumulated other comprehensive income items for the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios. 

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 began on January 1, 2015 and will be phased-in over a four-year period (beginning at 40% on January 1, 2015 and an additional 20% per year thereafter). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019). 

With respect to FCB, the Basel III Capital Rules also revise the &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as discussed below under &#8220;Prompt Corrective Action.&#8221; The Basel III Capital Rules prescribe a standardized approach for risk weightings that expand the risk-weighting categories from the four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories. Specific changes to the rules impacting First Commonwealth&#8217;s determination of risk-weighted assets include, among other things: 

&#8226; 

Applying a 150% risk weight instead of a 100% risk weight for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans. 

&#8226; 

Assigning a 150% risk weight to exposures (other than residential mortgage exposures) that are 90 days past due. 

&#8226; 

Providing for a 20% credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable (currently set at 0%). 

&#8226; 

Providing for a risk weight, generally not less than 20% with certain exceptions, for securities lending transactions based on the risk weight category of the underlying collateral securing the transaction. 

&#8226; 

Providing for a 100% risk weight for claims on securities firms. 

&#8226; 

Eliminating the current 50% cap on the risk weight for OTC derivatives. 

Management believes that, as of December 31, 2015 , First Commonwealth and FCB would meet all capital adequacy requirements under the Basel III Capital Rules on a fully phased-in basis as if such requirements were in effect as of that date. 

Liquidity Requirements 

Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio (&#8220;LCR&#8221;), is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity&#8217;s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (&#8220;NSFR&#8221;), is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incent banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source. In September 2014, the federal bank regulators approved final rules implementing the LCR for advanced approaches banking organizations (i.e., banking organizations with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in total on-balance sheet foreign exposure) and a modified version of the LCR for bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets that are not advanced approach banking organizations, neither of which would apply to First Commonwealth or FCB. The federal bank regulators have not yet proposed rules to implement the NSFR or addressed the scope of bank organizations to which it will apply. The Basel Committee's final NSFR document states that the NSFR applies to internationally active banks, as did its final LCR document as to that ratio. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (&#8220;FDIA&#8221;), requires, among other things, the federal banking agencies to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDIA includes the following five capital tiers: &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; A depository institution&#8217;s capital tier will depend upon how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. The relevant capital measures are the total capital ratio, the CET1 capital ratio (a new ratio requirement under the Basel III Capital Rules), the Tier 1 capital ratio and the leverage ratio. 

A bank will be (i) &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a CET1 capital ratio of 6.5% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and is not subject to any order or written directive by any such regulatory authority to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure; (ii) &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a CET1 capital ratio of 4.5% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 4.0% or greater and is not &#8220;well capitalized&#8221;; (iii) &#8220;undercapitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 8.0%, a CET1 capital ratio less than 4.5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0% or a leverage ratio of less than 4.0%; (iv) &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a CET1 capital ratio less than 3%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0% or a leverage ratio of less than 3.0%; and (v) &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; if the institution&#8217;s tangible equity is equal to or less than 2.0% of average quarterly tangible assets. An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. A bank&#8217;s capital category is determined solely for the purpose of applying prompt corrective action regulations, and the capital category may not constitute an accurate representation of the bank&#8217;s overall financial condition or prospects for other purposes. 

The FDIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be &#8220;undercapitalized.&#8221; &#8220;Undercapitalized&#8221; institutions are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. The agencies may not accept such a plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution&#8217;s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the depository institution&#8217;s parent holding company must guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan and must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company is limited to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5.0% of the depository institution&#8217;s total assets at the time it became undercapitalized and (ii) the amount which is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is &#8220;significantly undercapitalized.&#8221; 

&#8220;Significantly undercapitalized&#8221; depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; requirements to reduce total assets, and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. &#8220;Critically undercapitalized&#8221; institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator. 

The appropriate federal banking agency may, under certain circumstances, reclassify a well capitalized insured depository institution as adequately capitalized. The FDIA provides that an institution may be reclassified if the appropriate federal banking agency determines (after notice and opportunity for hearing) that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition or deems the institution to be engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice. 

The appropriate agency is also permitted to require an adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution to comply with the supervisory provisions as if the institution were in the next lower category (but not treat a significantly undercapitalized institution as critically undercapitalized) based on supervisory information other than the capital levels of the institution. 

First Commonwealth believes that, as of December 31, 2015, FCB was a &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; bank as defined by the FDIC. See Note 25 &#8220;Regulatory Restrictions and Capital Adequacy&#8221; of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, contained in Item 8, for a table that provides a comparison of First Commonwealth&#8217;s and FCB&#8217;s risk-based capital ratios and the leverage ratio to minimum regulatory requirements. 

The Volcker Rule 

The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds (so called "covered funds"). The statutory provision is commonly called the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; Banks with less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, such as FCB, that do not engage in any covered activities, other than trading in certain government, agency, state or municipal obligations, do not have any significant compliance obligations under the rules implementing the Volcker Rule. We are continuing to evaluate the effects of the Volcker Rule on our business, but we do not currently anticipate that the Volcker Rule will have a material effect on our operations. 

Depositor Preference 

Under federal law, depositors (including the FDIC with respect to the subrogated claims of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as receiver would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the liquidation or other resolution of such an institution by any receiver. 

Interchange Fees 

Under the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB adopted rules establishing standards for assessing whether the interchange fees that may be charged with respect to certain electronic debit transactions are &#8220;reasonable and proportional&#8221; to the costs incurred by issuers for processing such transactions. Interchange fees, or &#8220;swipe&#8221; fees, are charges that merchants pay to us and other card-issuing banks for processing electronic payment transactions. Under the final rules, the maximum permissible interchange fee is equal to no more than 21 cents plus 5 basis points of the transaction value for many types of debit interchange transactions. The FRB also adopted a rule to allow a debit card issuer to recover 1 cent per transaction for fraud prevention purposes if the issuer complies with certain fraud-related requirements required by the FRB. The FRB also has rules governing routing and exclusivity that require issuers to offer two unaffiliated networks for routing transactions on each debit or prepaid product. 

The Dodd-Frank Act contained an exemption from the interchange fee cap for any debit card issuer that, together with its affiliates, has total assets of less than $10 billion as of the end of the previous calendar year. We currently qualify for this exemption. If we did not qualify for the exemption, it is projected that the interchange fee cap would adversely impact interchange income by $6.0 million. We would become subject to the interchange fee cap beginning July 1 of the year following the time when our total assets reaches or exceeds $10 billion. 

Heightened Requirements for Bank Holding Companies with $10 Billion or More in Assets &#32; 

Various federal banking laws and regulations, including rules adopted by the FRB pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, impose heightened requirements on certain large banks and bank holding companies. Most of these rules apply primarily to bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, but certain rules also apply to banks and bank holding companies with at least $10 billion in total consolidated assets. Following the time at which our or our bank&#8217;s total consolidated assets, as applicable, equal or exceed $10 billion, we or our bank, as applicable, will, among other requirements: 

&#8226; 

be required to perform annual stress tests as described above under Dividends and Stress Testing; 

&#8226; 

be required to establish a dedicated risk committee of our board of directors responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management policies, which must be commensurate with our capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, size and other appropriate risk-related factors, and including as a member at least one risk management expert; 

calculate our FDIC deposit assessment base using the performance score and a loss-severity score system described above under Deposit Insurance; and 

&#8226; 

be examined for compliance with federal consumer protection laws primarily by the CFPB as described above under Consumer Financial Protection. 

While neither we nor our bank currently have $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets, we have begun analyzing these rules to ensure we are prepared to comply with the rules when and if they become applicable. 

Financial Privacy 

The federal banking regulators adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. 

Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act 

A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the &#8220;USA Patriot Act&#8221;) substantially broadened the scope of United States anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. Financial institutions are also prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must use enhanced due diligence procedures in their dealings with certain types of high-risk customers and implement a written customer identification program. Financial institutions must take certain steps to assist government agencies in detecting and preventing money laundering and report certain types of suspicious transactions. Regulatory authorities routinely examine financial institutions for compliance with these obligations, and failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, or to comply with all of the relevant laws or regulations, could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution, including causing applicable bank regulatory authorities not to approve merger or acquisition transactions when regulatory approval is required or to prohibit such transactions even if approval is not required. Regulatory authorities have imposed cease and desist orders and civil money penalties against institutions found to be violating these obligations. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The U.S. Treasury Department&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries and regimes, under authority of various laws, including designated foreign countries, nationals and others. OFAC publishes lists of specially designated targets and countries. First Commonwealth is responsible for, among other things, blocking accounts of, and transactions with, such targets and countries, prohibiting unlicensed trade and financial transactions with them and reporting blocked transactions after their occurrence. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences, including causing applicable bank regulatory authorities not to approve merger or acquisition transactions when regulatory approval is required or to prohibit such transactions even if approval is not required. 

Future Legislation and Regulation 

Congress may enact legislation from time to time that affects the regulation of the financial services industry, and state legislatures may enact legislation from time to time affecting the regulation of financial institutions chartered by or operating in those states. Federal and state regulatory agencies also periodically propose and adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. The substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation, or the application thereof, cannot be predicted, although enactment of the proposed legislation could impact the regulatory structure under which we operate and may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and modify our business strategy, and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects may be adversely affected, perhaps materially, as a result. 

Availability of Financial Information 

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document we file at the Securities and Exchange Commission&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on the SEC website at www.sec.gov and on our website at www.fcbanking.com. 

We also make available on our website, www.fcbanking.com, and in print to any shareholder who requests them, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters for our Audit, Risk, Compensation and Human Resources, and Governance Committees, and the Code of Conduct and Ethics that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees. 

Our Chief Executive Officer has certified to the New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;) that, as of the date of the certification, he was not aware of any violation by First Commonwealth of NYSE&#8217;s corporate governance listing standards. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have made certain certifications concerning the information contained in 

this report pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Section 302 certifications appear as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this annual report on Form 10-K. 

