 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Forward Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K (&#8220;Annual Report&#8221;) contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. 

Forward looking statements are made based on management&#8217;s beliefs, estimates and opinions on the date the statements are made and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements if these beliefs, estimates and opinions or other circumstances should change. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. 

The safe harbors of forward-looking statements provided by Section 21E of the Exchange Act are unavailable to issuers of penny stock. As we issued securities at a price below $5.00 per share, our shares are considered penny stock and such safe harbors set forth under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 are unavailable to us. 

Our financial statements are stated in United States dollars and are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. 

In this annual report, unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars and all references to "common stock" refer to the common shares in our capital stock. 

As used in this Annual Report, the terms "we," "us," &#8220;Company,&#8221; "our" and "Vet Online Supply" mean Vet Online Supply, Inc., unless otherwise indicated. 

THERE IS SUBSTANTIAL UNCERTAINTY ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE OUR OPERATIONS AS A GOING CONCERN. 

In their audit report dated April 14, 2016 our auditors have expressed an opinion that substantial doubt exists as to whether we can continue as an ongoing business. Because our officers may be unwilling or unable to loan or advance any additional capital to us, we believe that if we do not raise additional capital, we may be required to suspend or cease the implementation of our business plan. See the Audited Financial Statements - Auditors Report". Because our auditor has issued an opinion that substantial doubt exists as to whether we can continue as a going concern, it may be more difficult to attract investors. 

Corporate Information 

Vet Online Supply, Inc. (&#8220;VOS&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;) was incorporated in the State of Florida on May 31, 2014. We are a development stage company that engages in the sale of veterinary supplies for vet clinics of all sizes. We sell our products on the eCommerce web-based platform called OsCommerce, at our website www.vetonlinesupply.com. Our website gives our customers the ability to purchase veterinary supplies at affordable prices, making an order any time of the day, any day of the week. The Company&#8217;s fiscal year end is December 31. 

Recent Developments. 

None. 

&#160;

&#160; 

&#160; 

