 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Company 

We are a leading global chemical distributor and provider of innovative value-added services. We source chemicals from over 8,000 producers worldwide and provide a comprehensive array of products and services to over 160,000 customer locations in over 150 countries. Our scale and broad geographic reach, combined with our deep product knowledge and end market expertise and our differentiated value-added services, provide us with a distinct competitive advantage and enable us to offer customers a &#147;one-stop shop&#148; for their chemical needs. As a result, we believe we are strategically positioned for growth. 

The global chemical distribution industry is large, fragmented and growing, as producers and customers increasingly realize the benefits of outsourcing. Chemical producers rely on us to warehouse, transport and sell their products as a way to improve their market access, geographic reach, and lower their costs. Customers who purchase products and services from us benefit from a lower total cost of ownership, as they are able to simplify the chemical sourcing process and outsource a variety of functions such as packaging, inventory management, mixing, blending and formulating. 

Since hiring our President and CEO, Erik Fyrwald, in May 2012, we have significantly enhanced our management team and have implemented a series of transformational initiatives to drive growth and improved operating performance. These initiatives include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; focusing increased efforts on strengthening our market, technical and product expertise in attractive, high-growth industry sectors; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; increasing and enhancing our value-added services, such as specialty product blending, automated tank monitoring and refill of less than truckload quantities, chemical waste management and digitally-enabled marketing and sales; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; undertaking a series of measures to drive operational excellence, such as enhancing our supply chain and logistics expertise, enhancing our global sourcing capabilities, reducing procurement costs, streamlining back-office functions and improving our working capital efficiency; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; pursuing commercial excellence programs, including significantly increasing our global sales force, establishing a performance driven sales culture and developing our proprietary, analytics-based mobile sales force tools; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; continuing to improve upon our distribution industry leadership in safety performance, which serves as a differentiating factor for both producers and our customers. As a result of these initiatives, we believe we are well-positioned to capture market share and to improve our margins. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, we generated $9.0 billion in net sales and $600.1 million in Adjusted EBITDA. For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), see Footnote (1) in &#147;Selected Financial Data&#148; in Item 6 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

While we seek to grow volumes across our business, our enhanced focus on end markets and regions with the most attractive growth prospects is a key element of our strategy, as demand within the majority of these end markets and regions is growing faster than overall global chemical distribution demand. We are continuously strengthening our market, technological and product expertise in these attractive, higher-growth end markets, including food ingredients, pharmaceutical ingredients, personal care, water treatment and agricultural sciences. In addition to successfully focusing our sales organization and operating assets to target high-growth end markets, we have made several recent acquisitions that expand our capabilities and technology offerings with 

&#160;

active pharmaceutical ingredients (Arrow Chemical), agriculture chemical formulation and services (Future /BlueStar), natural oleochemical blends (Chemical Associates), and specialty products used to formulate environmentally friendly coatings (Polymer Technologies). 

The following charts illustrate the geographical and end market diversity of our 2015 net sales: 

&#160;

2015 Net Sales by Region 

&#160; 2015 Net Sales by End Market 

&#160; We maintain strong, long-term relationships with both producers and our customers, many of which span multiple decades. We source materials from thousands of producers worldwide, including global leaders such as Dow Chemical Company, ExxonMobil, Eastman Chemical Company, LyondellBasell, Dow Corning, BASF and Formosa Chemicals. Our 10 largest producers accounted for approximately 36% of our total chemical purchases in the year ended December 31, 2015. Similarly, we sell products to thousands of customers globally, ranging from small and medium-sized businesses to large industrial customers, including Akzo Nobel, Dow Chemical Company, Henkel, Ecolab, PPG, Valero Energy, FMC Corporation, Georgia-Pacific and Kellogg Company. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Our Segments 

Our business is organized and managed in four geographical segments: Univar USA (&#147;USA&#148;), Univar Canada (&#147;Canada&#148;), Univar Europe and the Middle East and Africa (&#147;EMEA&#148;), and Rest of World (&#147;Rest of World&#148;), which includes developing businesses in Latin America (including Brazil and Mexico) and the Asia-Pacific region. For additional information on our geographical segments, see &#147;Note 20: Segments&#148; in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

USA 

We supply a significant amount of commodity and specialty chemicals, as well as specialized value-added services to a wide range of end markets, touching a majority of the manufacturing and industrial production sectors in the United States. Our close proximity to customers serves as a competitive advantage and we believe that nearly 100% of U.S. manufacturing GDP is located within 150 miles of a Univar location. Moreover, our global sourcing capabilities and focus allows us to globally source lower cost chemicals. 

In the United States, we service these multiple end-markets with nearly one day order times and on-time delivery more than 95 percent of the time from our 121 terminals. We repackage and blend bulk chemicals for shipment by our transportation fleet of over 2,600 tractors, tankers and trailers. Our highly skilled salesforce is deployed by sales district as well as by end-use market, e.g., coatings &#38; adhesives, chemical manufacturing, food products and ingredients, pharmaceutical products and ingredients, water treatment, personal care, cleaning and sanitation and mining. 

&#160;

Canada 

Our Canadian operations are divided into two regions: Eastern Canada, where we focus primarily on key customer end markets, including cleaning and sanitization, coatings and adhesives, food ingredients, chemical manufacturing, personal care and pharmaceutical. In Western Canada, we focus primarily on forestry, chemical manufacturing, mining, and oil and gas markets such as midstream gas and oil sands processing as well as refining. Our Agricultural Sciences industry group distributes crop protection products to independent retailers and specialty applicators servicing the agricultural sciences end market in both Western Canada and Eastern Canada. 

EMEA 

We maintain a strong presence in the United Kingdom and Continental Europe with sales offices in 20 countries. We also have six sales offices in the Middle East and Africa. 

In 2013, our management team began implementing a pan-European strategy to consolidate our European operations, including our information technology systems, raw materials procurement, logistics, route operations and the management of producer relationships, in order to benefit from economies of scale and improve cost efficiency. We are also strengthening our end market expertise and key account management capability across Europe to better support sales representatives in each country by moving from a country-based approach to a pan-European operation for serving our key customer end markets, namely pharmaceutical products and ingredients, food, coating and adhesives, and personal care as part of our focus on higher-growth end markets. 

Rest of World 

Our global footprint also includes sales offices and distribution sites in Mexico, Brazil and to a lesser extent the Asia-Pacific region. Chemical distribution demand growth within these regions has outpaced the overall global market, a trend which we expect to continue in the future. We further expanded our footprint in Latin America through our 2011 acquisition of Arinos, a distributor of specialty and commodity chemicals in Brazil, our 2013 acquisition of Quimicompuestos, a leading distributor of commodity chemicals in Mexico and our 2014 acquisition of D&#146;Altomare, a Brazilian distributor of specialty chemicals and ingredients. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe the following competitive strengths have enabled us to become an integrated resource to both producers and our customers and to build and maintain leading market positions in many of the key regions and end markets that we serve. 

Leading global market position in an attractive, growing industry 

We are one of the world&#146;s leading chemical distribution companies. We continue to focus on increasing our market share through organic growth, marketing alliances and strategic acquisitions in both established markets, such as the United States, and emerging markets, such as Latin America and the Middle East. We are also well positioned in attractive and high-growth end markets, including water treatment, agricultural sciences, food ingredients, cleaning and sanitization, pharmaceutical products and ingredients and personal care. 

Our scale and geographic reach, combined with our broad product offerings, product knowledge and market expertise and our differentiated value-added service offerings, provide us with a significant competitive advantage in the highly fragmented third party chemical distribution market, which includes more than 10,000 participants, primarily comprised of smaller distributors with limited geographic and product reach. 

We operate in a highly attractive, expanding market. This growth has outpaced the growth of total chemical demand and this trend is forecasted to continue as a result of increased outsourcing of distribution by producers 

&#160;

and growing demand from customers for value-added services, safe operations and environmental regulatory compliance. Third party chemical distribution growth is expected to continue to be driven by these trends, as well as consolidation of the highly fragmented chemical distribution market. We believe that we are well-positioned to benefit from this anticipated growth. 

Global sourcing and distribution network producing operational and scale efficiencies 

We operate one of the most extensive chemical distribution networks in the world, comprised of over 850 distribution facilities, more than 90 million gallons of storage capacity, approximately 3,100 tractors, tankers and trailers, approximately 1,400 railcars, approximately 127 rail/barge terminals and 38 deep sea terminals. We believe that nearly 100% of U.S. manufacturing GDP is located within 150 miles of one of our locations and we service demand in these zones on very short lead times, for example in 1 to 2 days. Our purchasing power and global procurement relationships provide us with competitive advantages over local and regional competitors due to economies of scale as well as our enhanced ability to manage our inventory and working capital. Our global distribution platform also creates significant value for both producers and our customers through the combination of our comprehensive inventory, electronic ordering and shipment tracking, &#147;just-in-time&#148; delivery, centralized order handling and fulfillment and access to networked inventory sourcing. In addition, our scale allows us to service an international customer base in both established and emerging markets and positions us to take market share as producers and customers streamline their distributor relationships. As one of the world&#146;s largest chemical distributors, we are able to reduce costs by aggregating demand and implementing consistent processes to operate with increasing efficiency as we expand into new markets. 

Long-standing, strong relationships with a broad set of producers and customers 

We source chemicals from more than 8,000 producers, many of which are premier global chemical producers, including Dow Chemical Company, ExxonMobil, Eastman Chemical Company, LyondellBasell, Dow Corning, BASF and Formosa Chemicals. We distribute products to over 160,000 customer locations, from small and medium-sized businesses to global industrial customers, including Akzo Nobel, Dow Chemical Company, Henkel, Ecolab, PPG, Valero Energy, FMC Corporation, Georgia-Pacific and Kellogg Company, across a diverse range of high-value and high-growth end markets. We believe that our scale, geographic reach, diversified distribution channels, broad product and value-added services offerings, as well as our deep technical expertise and knowledgeable sales force, are key differentiators relative to smaller, regional and local competitors, and have enabled us to develop strong, long-term relationships, often spanning several decades, with both producers and customers. The strength of our relationships has provided opportunities for us to integrate our service and logistics capabilities into their business processes and to promote collaboration on supply chain optimization, and, in the case of producers, marketing and other revenue enhancement strategies. In addition, our strong safety record and environmental regulatory compliance is an increasingly important consideration for producers and our customers when choosing a chemical distributor. 

Broad value-added service offerings driving customer loyalty 

To complement our extensive product portfolio, we offer a broad range of value-added services, such as our unique distribution platform for specialty and fine chemicals (ChemPoint.com), automated tank monitoring and refill of less than truckload quantities (MiniBulk), chemical waste management (ChemCare), and specialty product blending (Magnablend). Our deep technical expertise, combined with our knowledgeable sales force, allows us to provide tailored solutions to our customers. We believe that our innovative and differentiated value-added service offerings provide efficiency and productivity benefits to our customers. In addition, these value-added services generally have higher margins than our chemical product sales. 

Strategically positioned assets and sales force focused on high-growth end markets 

We have successfully focused our sales organization and operating assets to target high-growth end markets, including water treatment, agricultural sciences, food products and ingredients, pharmaceutical products and 

&#160;

ingredients and personal care. We have dedicated sales teams composed of professionals with technical and industry-specific expertise, allowing us to connect a broad set of chemical producers to a broad set of end-user markets. Along with our broad end market exposure, we touch a majority of the manufacturing and industrial production sectors in the United States. Our close proximity to customers serves as a competitive advantage and we believe that nearly 100% of U.S. manufacturing GDP is located within 150 miles of a Univar location. The location of our facilities and our logistics capabilities lead to high customer retention and a larger addressable market. In addition, the increased demand for drinking and waste water treatment has driven an increase in demand for the water treatment chemicals we distribute. We believe our technical expertise and the value-added services we provide to municipalities and industrial users will continue to deliver market share gains in our water vertical. 

Resilient business platform with significant growth potential 

We believe that the combination of our large geographic footprint, end market diversity, fragmented producer and customer base and broad product offerings provides us with a resilient business platform that enhances our flexibility and ability to take advantage of growth opportunities. We buy thousands of different chemical products in bulk quantities, process them, repack them in quantities that are matched to the needs of our customers, sell them and deliver them to approximately 160,000 customer locations in over 150 countries. In addition to our vast geographic reach, we serve a wide range of end markets with over 30,000 products and have no major exposure to any single end market or customer. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2015. We also benefit from sourcing our products from a diverse and large set of producers, with our ten largest producers accounting for approximately 36% of our chemical expenditures in 2015. For the past three years, capital expenditures have typically averaged less than 2% of sales annually. Capital expenditures for our business have historically been low and predictable year over year. We believe that the combination of our disciplined approach to cost control, our active asset management strategy and our low capital expenditure requirements has resulted in a strong business platform that is well positioned for growth and adaptable to changing industry dynamics. 

Experienced and proven management team 

We have assembled a highly experienced management team that have, on average, over 30 years of experience in the chemical industry. Our management team is led by our Chief Executive Officer, Erik Fyrwald, formerly the President and Chief Executive Officer of Nalco Holding Company and President of Ecolab, Inc., who has over 30 years of experience in the chemical and distribution industries. Since mid-2012, our senior management team has implemented an enhanced business strategy and successfully transformed our pricing structure, sales force, capital efficiency and acquisition and integration strategy. 

Our Growth Strategy 

We believe that we are well-positioned to capitalize on industry growth trends and opportunities to increase our market share by focusing on expanding our scale and global infrastructure, while further cultivating our relationships with key producers and customers. We also intend to continue to implement strategies to improve our operating margins. The key elements of our growth strategy are to: 

Leverage our market leading position to grow organically in existing and new geographies and end markets 

We seek to build upon our position as a global market leader by leveraging our scale and global network to capitalize on market opportunities, as major chemical producers outsource an increasing portion of their distribution operations and rationalize their distributor relationships. Because many producers and customers look for distributors with specialized industry or product knowledge, we will continue to develop our technical 

&#160;

and industry-specific expertise to become the preferred distributor for an even broader range of chemical producers and customers in existing and new markets. We will also continue to improve the customer experience through dedicated sales teams composed of professionals with industry-specific expertise in areas such as water treatment, agricultural services, food products and ingredients, pharmaceutical products and ingredients, personal care, coatings and adhesives. In addition, we are expanding the scope of our account management by appointing global account leaders to broaden our relationships with global customers. Our broad geographic footprint and extensive producer and customer relationships provide us with a unique opportunity to expand our operations in developing geographies. We believe that we are well-positioned to capture additional sales volume and grow organically as we reinforce our position as a &#147;one-stop&#148; provider of chemicals to customers and related supply chain management services for chemical producers. 

Focus on continued development of innovative value-added services 

We are focused on developing and offering a range of value-added services that provide efficiency gains for producers and lower the total cost of ownership for our customers. We will also continue to partner with customers to develop tailored solutions to meet their specific requirements. Our high-growth and value-added service offerings, including ChemPoint.com, MiniBulk, ChemCare, and Magnablend are key differentiators for us relative to our competitors and also enhance our profitability and growth prospects. 

Pursue commercial excellence initiatives 

We are currently focused on implementing a number of key commercial excellence programs including: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; strengthening our sales planning and execution process by focusing on a centralized account planning process, improving value documentation and conducting quarterly business reviews with customers; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; attracting, retaining, mentoring and developing our sales force talent to take advantage of markets that are underpenetrated by us, enhancing product knowledge and end market expertise across our sales force and focusing our sales force on high-growth, high-value end markets; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expanding our utilization of proprietary intelligent mobile sales force tools which provide market and customer insights, pricing analytics, to drive improved productivity and profitability for producers and us. Continue to implement additional productivity improvements and operational excellence initiatives 

We are committed to continued operational excellence and have implemented several initiatives to further improve operating performance and margins. Some of the key operational excellence initiatives include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Optimizing our global sourcing and supply chain network. We are focusing on our procurement organization to reduce sourcing costs and implementing robust inventory planning and stocking systems, and we centralized and consolidated our indirect-spend, including third party transportation, all in an effort to reduce costs and improve the reliability and level of service we offer customers: &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Refocusing our EMEA business . We completed the commercial realignment of our EMEA business, from a country-based structure to a pan-European platform, with increased focus on key growth markets, local knowledge and local profitability. We rationalized underperforming sites and reduce overhead to drive improved profitability in EMEA; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Resizing our infrastructure . We resized our infrastructure and support costs in light of the historic decline in oil prices in 2015 and associated reduction in demand for chemicals in the fracking sector of oil production. &#160;

Undertake selective acquisitions and ventures 

We will continue to evaluate selective acquisitions and ventures in both developed and emerging markets to complement our organic growth initiatives. Specifically, we seek acquisition and venture opportunities that will: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expand our existing product portfolio and our value-added services capabilities; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; increase our market share of key products where increased volume provides enhanced margin opportunities; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; increase our market share in established markets, such as North America and Europe, to create operating leverage; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; enable us to enter or expand our presence in developing markets; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; increase our presence in high-growth industries. Company History 

Our history dates back to 1924 when we were founded as a brokerage business. In 1986, we acquired McKesson Chemical Corporation, then the third largest U.S. chemical distributor, solidifying our presence throughout the United States and making us the largest chemical distributor in North America. In 2001, we continued our expansion into Europe through the acquisition of Ellis &#38; Everard, which specialized in the distribution of chemicals in the United Kingdom and Ireland and had additional facilities in Europe and the Eastern United States. In 2007, we acquired ChemCentral, which enabled us to improve our market share and operational efficiencies in North America. 

In 2007 we were acquired by investment funds advised by CVC Capital Partners Advisory (U.S.), Inc. (&#147;CVC&#148;) as well as investment funds associated with Goldman, Sachs &#38; Co. and Parcom. On November 30, 2010, investment funds associated with Clayton, Dubilier &#38; Rice, LLC (&#147;CD&#38;R&#148;) acquired a 42.5% ownership interest in us. Currently funds advised or managed by CD&#38;R and CVC beneficially own approximately 46% of our company. CVC and CD&#38;R are collectively referred to as the &#147;Equity Sponsors&#148;. 

In December 2010, we acquired Basic Chemicals Solutions L.L.C., a global distributor and trader of commodity chemicals, which further strengthened our ability to provide value in the supply chain between chemical producers and end-users and reinforced our global sourcing capabilities. In January 2011, we completed our acquisition of Quaron, a chemical distributor operating in Belgium and the Netherlands, which complemented our strong European foothold in specialty chemicals with expanded product portfolio and increased logistical capability. We continued our expansion into the emerging markets in 2011 through our acquisition of Eral-Protek, a leading chemical distributor in Turkey, and the acquisition of Arinos, a leading chemical distributor of specialty and commodity chemicals and high-value services in Brazil. In December 2012, we acquired Magnablend, whose specialty chemical and manufactured products broadened our oil and gas offerings. In May 2013, we expanded our Mexican presence with the acquisition of Quimicompuestos, making us a leading chemical distributor in the Mexican market, which is increasingly connected to the North American market. In November 2014, we acquired D&#146;Altomare Quimica Ltda, or D&#146;Altomare, a Brazilian distributor of specialty chemicals and ingredients, which will expand our geographic footprint and market presence in Brazil and across Latin America. On April 10, 2015, we acquired Key Chemical, Inc., or Key, one of the largest distributors of fluoride to municipalities in the United States, which we expect to help us expand our offerings into the municipal and other industrial markets. 

On June 23, 2015, we closed our initial public offering (&#147;IPO&#148;) in which we issued and sold 20.0 million shares of common stock at a public offering price of $22.00 per share. In addition, we completed a concurrent private placement of $350.0 million for shares of common stock (17.6 million shares) to Dahlia Investments Pte. Ltd., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited (&#147;Temasek&#148;). We received total net proceeds of approximately $760.0 million in total from the IPO and the private placement after 

&#160;

deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other offering expenses of approximately $30.0 million. These expenses were recorded against the proceeds received from the IPO. Certain selling stockholders sold an additional 25.3 million shares of common stock in the IPO and concurrent private placement. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of these shares. 

In July 2015, we acquired the assets of Chemical Associates, Inc., or Chemical Associates, a marketer, manufacturer, and distributor of oleochemicals, many of which are based on renewable and sustainable resources, which we believe will help increase the value Univar can bring in a number of our key markets such as personal care, food, cleaning and sanitization, lubricants, and coatings and adhesives. On October 2, 2015, we entered into the agrochemical formulation market and expanded our capabilities in the third-party agriculture logistics market in Canada with the acquisition of Future Transfer Co., Inc. BlueStar Distribution Inc., and BDI Distribution West Inc, or Future/BlueStar. On November 3, 2015, we acquired Arrow Chemical, Inc., expanding our existing offering with a complementary portfolio of active pharmaceutical ingredients (&#147;APIs&#148;) and other specialty ingredients essential to the formulation of generic and over-the-counter pharmaceuticals. On December 1, 2015, we acquired Weaver Town Oil Services, Inc., and Weavertown Transport Leasing, Inc., operating as the Weavertown Environmental Group, or WEG, which strengthens our ChemCare SM waste management service offering with a broad range of complementary services, including industrial cleaning, waste management and transportation, site remediation, and 24/7 emergency response services. On December 17, 2015, we acquired Polymer Technologies Ltd., or Polymer Technologies, a U.K.-based developer and distributor of unique ultraviolet/electron beam curable chemistries used to formulate environmentally responsible paints, inks, and adhesives. 

Products and End Markets 

The main focus of our marketing approach is to identify attractive end-user markets and provide customers in those markets all of their commodity and specialty chemical needs. We also offer value-added services as well as procurement solutions that leverage our chemical, supply chain and logistics expertise, networked inventory sourcing and producer relationships. We provide our customers with a &#147;one-stop shop&#148; for their commodity and specialty chemical needs and offer a reliable and stable source of quality products. 

We buy and inventory chemicals in large quantities such as barge loads, railcars or full truck loads from chemical producers and we sell and distribute smaller quantities to our customers. Approximately 35% of the chemicals we purchase are in bulk form, and we repackage them into various size containers for sale and distribution. 

Commodity chemicals currently represent and have historically represented the largest portion of our business by sales and volume. Our commodity chemicals portfolio includes acids and bases, surfactants, glycols, inorganic compounds, alcohols and general chemicals used extensively throughout hundreds of end markets. Our specialty chemicals sales represent an important, high-value, higher-growth portion of the chemical distribution market. We typically sell specialty chemicals in lower volumes but at a higher profit than commodity chemicals. While many chemical producers supply these products directly to customers, there is an increasing trend toward outsourcing the distribution of these specialized, lower volume products. We believe that customers and producers value Univar&#146;s ability to supply both commodity and specialty products, particularly as the markets continue to consolidate. 

We focus on sourcing certain high volume products that we distribute to our customers. We buy products globally at attractive pricing. We largely sell chemicals sourced through our industry focused salesforce. However, a small proportion of the chemicals that we source are sold directly to certain high volume customers through our Basic Chemicals group. Our global sourcing capabilities help us enhance our global market presence and our product expertise across all market segments. 

&#160;

We serve a diverse set of end markets and regions, with no end market accounting for more than 20% of our net sales over the past year. Our most significant end markets in recent years have included cleaning and sanitization, coatings and adhesives, chemical manufacturing, food ingredients and oil and gas. 

Our key global end markets include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Agricultural Sciences . We are a leading wholesale distributor of crop protection products to independent retailers and specialty applicators in Canada. To support this end market, we distribute herbicides, fungicides, insecticides, seed, micronutrients, horticultural products and feed, among other products. In addition, we provide storage, packaging and logistics services for major crop protection companies, storing chemicals, feed-grade materials, seed and equipment. We supply pest control products to the public health, vegetation management, turf and ornamental, food processing and post-harvest storage, animal health and hay production markets. We operate a network of over 70 Univar ProCenter distribution centers in North America to serve this end market. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Chemical Manufacturing. We distribute a full suite of chemical products in support of the chemical manufacturing industry (organic, inorganic, polymer chemistries and to a lesser extent oil refining). Our broad warehousing and delivery resources permit us to assure our chemical manufacturing customers efficient inventory management, just-in-time delivery, and custom blends and packages. Our industry expertise also assists our customers in making product selections which best suit the customer&#146;s objectives and with chemical waste and wastewater issues. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cleaning and Sanitization . The cleaning and sanitization industry is made up of thousands of large and small formulators that require a multitude of chemical ingredients to make cleaning products and detergents for home and industrial use. We believe that we distribute chemicals manufactured by many of the industry&#146;s leading producers of enzymes, surfactants, solvents, dispersants, thickeners, bleaching aides, builders, chelants, acids, alkalis and other chemicals that are used as processing aids in the manufacturing of cleaning products. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Coatings and Adhesives . The coatings and adhesives industry is one of our largest customer end markets. We sell resins, pigments, solvents, thickeners, dispersants and other additives used to make paints, inks, and coatings. We have a large team of industry and product specialists with the market expertise that enables us to work closely with formulators and producers to offer new technologies, formulations and scale-up support. Our product line includes epoxy resins, polyurethanes, titanium dioxide, fumed silica, esters, plasticizers, silicones and specialty amines. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Food Ingredients and Products . For the food and beverage industry, we inventory a diverse portfolio of commodity and specialty products that are sold as processing aids or food additives. We sell food ingredients such as thickeners, emulsifiers, sweeteners, preservatives, leavening agents and humectants, as well as texturizer and fat replacement products that include xanthan gum, locust bean gum, cellulosics and guar gum. We distribute acidulants such as citric acid, lactic acid and malic acid, as well as alkalis. Additional offerings include supplements and products such as proteins, vitamins and minerals. The major food and beverage markets we serve are meat processing, baked goods, dairy, grain mill products, processed foods, carbonated soft drinks, fruit drinks and alcoholic beverages. We manage our product portfolio to ensure quality standards, security of supply and cost competitiveness. We refresh our product offering with products that meet the key trends impacting the food industry. Our industry experts have developed marketing tools that simplify the ingredient selection process for our customers and provide product performance information and solutions. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Mid/Downstream oil and gas. We provide chemicals and service to midstream pipeline and downstream refinery operators primarily in the US and Canada and to a lesser extent to oil sand markets in Western Canada. We offer an expansive product line with a team of highly skilled and uniquely dedicated specialists to stay on top of the latest trends, regulations and technologies. &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Mining. We support the mining industry primarily in the US and Canada. We offer a wide range of products to service the different stages of mining operations, e.g., crushing to smelting, such as caustic soda, hydrochloric acid, solvents, absorbents, catalysts, fuel additives, water soluble polymers, gas treating amines and other products. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Personal Care . We are a full-line distributor in the personal care industry providing a wide variety of specialty and basic chemicals used in skin care products, shampoos, conditioners, styling, hair color, body washes, sun care, color cosmetics, and pet care products. The chemicals that we distribute include surfactants, emollients, emulsifiers, rheology modifiers, active ingredients, color, preservatives and processing aids. Our dedicated team of industry experts and technical marketers work with our customers to formulate traditional and cutting-edge personal care products. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Pharmaceutical Ingredients and Products . We are uniquely positioned in the pharmaceutical ingredients industry, both small and large molecule, due to the combination of our product portfolio, logistics footprint and customized solutions to meet the needs of a highly regulated industry. We represent some of the world&#146;s leading excipient, process, solvent and active pharmaceutical ingredient producers, as well as producers of chemicals used to support water treatment, filtering and purification systems, thus offering our customers a broad product offering in the pharmaceutical industry. We sell active ingredients such as aspirin, ascorbic acid, caffeine and ibuprofen, and excipients that include phosphates, polyethylene glycols, polysorbates, methylcellulose, stearyl alcohol and stearates. We also make and sell certain finished pharmaceutical products. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Upstream oil and gas . We service the upstream oil and gas production market, especially the US shale hydraulic fracturing sector, by providing a variety of bulk chemicals to the drill site and also specialty blended products used to fracture rock and stimulate oil and gas production from the well. Outside the US, our service to this market is relatively small but includes Mexico, the North Sea in Europe and parts of Africa. During 2015, the number of operating hydraulic fracturing rigs in the US dropped significantly with the fall in oil prices, as has the size of this end market for us. In some geographic regions we target other markets in addition to the end-user markets described above. Our water treatment products and services are utilized by customers in many of our end markets, and we believe that this will continue to be a growth area for our business. 

Services 

In addition to selling and distributing chemicals, we use our transportation and warehousing infrastructure and broad knowledge of chemicals and hazardous materials handling to provide important distribution and value-added services for producers and our customers. This intermediary role is increasingly important, in particular due to the recent trend of increased outsourcing of distribution by chemical producers to satisfy their need for supply chain efficiency. These services include: 

Distribution Services 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Inventory management. We manage our inventory in order to meet customer demands on short notice whenever possible. Our key role in the supply chain to chemical producers also enables us to obtain access to chemicals in times of short supply, when smaller chemical distributors may not able to obtain or maintain stock. Further, our global distribution network permits us to stock products locally to enhance &#147;just-in-time&#148; delivery, providing outsourced inventory management to our customers in a variety of end markets. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Product knowledge and technical expertise. We partner with our customers in their production processes. For example, we employ a team of food technologists and chemicals and petroleum engineers who have the technical expertise to assist in the formulation of chemicals to meet specific customer performance requirements as well as provide customers with after-market support and consultation. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Mixing, blending and repackaging. We provide our customers with a full suite of blending and repackaging services. Additionally, we can fulfill small orders through our repackaging services, enabling customers to maintain smaller inventories. Value-Added Services 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; MiniBulk and Remote Monitoring. MiniBulk is a complete storage and delivery system that improves plant safety and productivity. MiniBulk is a safe and efficient handling and use system for customers receiving less than full truckload quantities of chemicals. Our trained specialists deliver products that minimize employee exposure to hazardous chemicals. In addition drum storage and disposal are eliminated and access to products is improved. Similarly, our remote telemetry systems permit around-the-clock access to inventory information. The result is better inventory management, elimination of manual measurement and better assurance of timely/automatic replenishment. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Specialized Blending . Leveraging our technical expertise, we are able to utilize our blending and mixing capabilities to create specialty chemical formulations to meet specific customer performance demands for agriculture and oil and gas products through our Future Transfer and Magnablend SM blending services. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ChemCare. Our ChemCare waste management service collects both hazardous and non-hazardous waste products at customer locations in the United States and Canada, and then works with select partners in the waste disposal business to safely transport these materials to licensed third party treatment, storage and disposal facilities. ChemCare reviews each waste profile, recommends disposal alternatives to the customer and offers transportation of the waste to the appropriate waste disposal company. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste management technologies provided from our approved treatment storage and disposal facility partners include recycling, incineration, fuels blending, lab packing, landfill, deep well injection and waste-to-energy. ChemCare also assists in the preparation of manifests, labels and reporting requirements and provides on-site project management for tank cleaning projects and site cleanups. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ChemPoint.com . ChemPoint.com is our unique distribution platform that facilitates the marketing and sales of specialty and fine chemicals. ChemPoint.com operates principally in North America and EMEA. Our ChemPoint.com platform is primarily focused on connecting producers to customers who require a technical sales approach on relatively small volumes of high-value and highly-specialized chemicals. Through this platform, we also offer MarketConnect, our leading-edge, Web-based opportunity management system, which provides producers with market transparency to customers and allows them to review and participate in a high-value sales process. Producers 

We source chemicals from many of the premier global chemical manufacturers. Among our largest producers worldwide are the world&#146;s largest general chemical and petrochemical producers, with many of the relationships with these producers having been in place for decades. We have both exclusive and nonexclusive arrangements with producers, depending on the type of chemicals involved. We typically maintain relationships with multiple producers of commodity chemicals to protect against disruption in supply and distribution logistics as well as to maintain pricing discipline in our supply. Specialty chemicals, which often require more in-depth technical application knowledge, tend to be sourced on an exclusive basis. Maintaining strong relationships with producers is important to our overall success. Our scale, geographic reach, diversified distribution channels and industry expertise enable us to develop strong, long-term relationships with producers, allowing us to integrate our service and logistics capabilities into their business processes, promoting collaboration on supply chain optimization, marketing and other revenue enhancement strategies. The producers we work with also benefit from the insight we provide into customer buying patterns and trends. Chemical producers have been using fewer independent distributors in an effort to develop more efficient marketing channels and to reduce their overall 

&#160;

costs. More and more, chemical producers are depending on the sales forces and infrastructure of large chemical distributors to efficiently market, warehouse and deliver their chemicals to end users. 

Our base of more than 8,000 chemical producers is highly diversified, with The Dow Chemical Company representing approximately 13% of our 2015 chemicals expenditures, and no other chemical producer accounting for more than 10% of the total. Our 10 largest producers accounted for approximately 36% of our total chemical purchases in 2015. 

We typically purchase our chemicals through purchase orders rather than long-term contracts, although we have exclusive supply arrangements for certain specialty chemicals. We normally enter into framework supply contracts with key producers. These framework agreements generally operate on an annual basis either with pricing items fixed to an index or without fixed pricing terms, although they often include financial incentives if we meet or exceed specified purchase volumes. We also have a limited number of longer term agreements with certain producers of commodity chemicals. For all of these chemicals, once we purchase the products, we ship them either directly to a customer or, more commonly, to one of our distribution centers. 

Our ability to earn volume-based incentives from producers is an important factor in achieving our financial results. We receive these volume-based incentives in the form of rebates that are payable only when our sales equal or exceed the relevant target. In order to record these incentives throughout the year, we estimate the amount of incentives we expect to receive in order to properly record our cost of sales during the period. Because our right to receive these incentives will depend on our purchases for the entire year, our accounting estimates depend on our ability to forecast our annual purchases accurately which ultimately will vary depending on our customers&#146; demand and consumption patterns which may be independent of our performance as a distributor. 

Sales and Marketing 

We organize our business regionally, mirroring our supply chain and logistics networks. We also further focus our salesforce towards four primary industry groups: Specialty Chemicals and Services; Basic Chemicals; Agricultural Sciences; and Oil, Gas and Mining. We train our sales personnel so that they develop expertise in the industries that they serve, such as coatings and adhesives, chemical manufacturing, food ingredients, cleaning and sanitization, pharmaceutical ingredients, personal care, oil and gas, and mining. Our salesforce leverages our strong supplier relationships to provide superior product insight and expertise to deliver critical-use specialty, organic, and inorganic chemicals to customers. In North America, we also have a salesforce that focuses on the Agricultural Sector. As part of our EMEA restructuring, we realigned our salesforce around a three-pronged approach to the market based on differing customer needs in bulk chemical distribution, local chemical distribution, and pan-European distribution to select focused industries, including food, coatings and adhesives, and personal care as part of our focus on higher-growth end markets. We believe that arranging our business into geographical segments that mirror our supply chain and logistics networks and our sales infrastructure into industry groups that share our supply chain assets and capabilities enables us to focus on key end markets and service offerings and to align our industry expertise with our customers&#146; industry specific needs. 

We believe that our industry-focused model differentiates us in the market and provides superior technical support and innovation to meet customer needs, which increases our effectiveness as a sales channel for producers. We believe this industry-focused model enables us to provide application support for our customers and encourages customers to consolidate chemical purchasing with us, creating additional sales for us and producers. To fully penetrate various markets and industries, we also use outside sales representatives, telesales representatives and technically trained telemarketing personnel. In addition to pursuing producer diversification and volume-based pricing, we exercise discipline in pricing to customers in order to improve margins. We centrally establish and manage pricing guidelines for select products. Our product managers establish a price based on prices posted by chemical producers plus freight, storage and handling charges. Our field management and sales teams price our products based on order volume and local competitive conditions utilize proprietary tools to price the products. They are required to obtain authorization from the product manager to quote a price below the posted threshold. 

&#160;

Our industry-focused marketing groups are responsible for product management, account management, program marketing product portfolio management and corporate communication with an industry focus to provide superior value-added services. Our industry product management groups work to analyze and identify product and technology trends in the marketplace and develop programs to promote enhanced sales. We have established an international marketing group to focus on the European market and to enter into corporate contracts on behalf of local operating companies. We believe that our European presence and broad product portfolio position us better than our local competitors to meet the requirements of the European corporate market. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 2,900 sales and marketing professionals, representing approximately 31% of our total workforce. Our sales and marketing professionals as of that date were located in the following regions: 1,400 in USA, 300 in Canada, 900 in EMEA and 300 in Rest of World. 

Distribution Channels 

We continue to refine our distribution business model to provide producers and our customers with the highest level of service, reliability and timeliness of deliveries while offering cost competitive products. We have multiple channels to market, including warehouse delivery, and direct-to-consumer delivery. Additionally, through ChemPoint.com, we offer a unique distribution platform for specialty and fine chemicals primarily on an exclusive basis. The principal determinants of the way a customer is serviced include the size, scale and level of customization of a particular order, the nature of the product and the customer, and the location of the product inventories. For the year ended December 31, 2015, warehouse distribution accounted for approximately 81% of our net sales while direct distribution accounted for approximately 17% of our net sales, with the remaining approximate 2% of net sales derived primarily from our waste management services. 

Warehouse Distribution 

Our warehouse distribution business is the core of our operations. In our warehouse business, we purchase chemicals in truck load or larger quantities from chemical producers based on contracted demands of our customers or our estimates of anticipated customer purchases. Once received, chemicals are stored in one or more of our over 850 distribution facilities, depending on customer location, for sale and distribution in smaller, less-than-truckload quantities to our customers. Our warehouses have various facilities for services such as repackaging, blending and mixing to create specialized chemical solutions needed by our customers in ready-to-use formulations. 

Our warehouse business connects large chemical producers with smaller volume customers whose consumption patterns tend to make them uneconomical to be served directly by producers. Thus, the core customer for our warehouse business model is a small or medium volume consumer of commodity and specialty chemicals. Since chemicals comprise only a fraction of the input costs for many of our customers&#146; products, our warehouse customers typically value quality, reliability of supply and ease of service. Our breadth of chemical product offerings also allows us to provide customers with complete management solutions for their chemical needs as they are able to obtain small volumes of many different products from us more efficiently and economically than if they dealt directly with multiple chemical producers. Our network of warehouses allows us to service most customers from multiple locations and also enables us to move products efficiently and economically throughout our own warehouse system to service customers on a real-time basis. Further, by leveraging our geographic footprint and state-of-the-art logistics platform, we are able to combine multiple customer orders along the same distribution routes to reduce delivery costs and facilitate customer inventory management. For example, we combine multiple less-than-truckload deliveries for different customers along the same route to better utilize our delivery assets while at the same time minimizing our customers&#146; inventories. 

With the leading market position in North America, our operations are capable of serving customers throughout the United States, including Hawaii and Alaska, and all major provinces and major manufacturing centers within Canada including remote areas such as the oil sands regions of Northern Canada. Our close 

&#160;

proximity to major transportation arteries allows us to service customers in the most remote locations throughout the United States, particularly those markets that chemical producers are not able to serve profitably. In the USA, we rely mainly on our own fleet of distribution vehicles, while we primarily use third parties for the transportation of chemicals in EMEA and Rest of World. 

Direct Distribution 

Our direct distribution business provides point-to-point logistics for full truckloads or larger quantities of chemicals between producers and customers. In direct distribution, we sell and service large quantity purchases that are shipped directly from producers through our logistics infrastructure, which provides customers with sourcing and logistics support services for inventory management and delivery, in many cases far more economically than the producer might provide. We believe that producers view us not as competitors, but as providers of a valuable service, brokering these large orders through the utilization of our broad distribution network. We typically do not maintain inventory for direct distribution, but rather use our existing producer relationships and marketing expertise, ordering and logistics infrastructure to serve this demand, resulting in limited working capital investment for these sales. Our direct distribution service is valuable to major chemical producers as it allows them to deliver larger orders to customers utilizing our existing ordering, delivery and payment systems. This distribution channel primarily distributes bulk commodity chemicals utilizing our own delivery vehicles in North America and third party carriers in Europe. 

Insurance 

We have insurance coverage at levels which we consider adequate for our worldwide facilities and activities. Our insurance policies cover the following categories of risk: property damage; business interruption; product and general liability; environmental liability; directors&#146; and officers&#146; liability; crime; workers&#146; compensation; auto liability; railroad protective liability; excess liability; excess California earthquake; marine liability; marine cargo/stock throughput; aviation products liability; business travel accident; pension trustees liability; and employment practices liability. 

Competition 

The chemical production, distribution and sales markets are highly competitive. Most of the products that we distribute are made to industry standard specifications and are either produced by, or available from, multiple sources or the producers with which we work may also sell their products through a direct sales force or through multiple chemical distributors. 

Chemical distribution itself is a fragmented market in which only a small number of competitors have substantial international operations. Our principal large international competitor is Brenntag, with a particularly strong position in Europe. 

Many other chemical distributors operate on a regional, national or local basis and may have a strong relationship with local producers and customers that may give them a competitive advantage in their local market. Some of our competitors are either local or regional distributors with a broad product portfolio, while others are niche players which focus on a specific end market, either industry or product-based. 

Chemical producers may also choose to limit their use of third party distributors, particularly with respect to higher margin products, or to partner with other chemical producers for distribution, each of which could increase competition. 

We compete primarily on the basis of price, diversification and flexibility in product offerings and supply availability, market insight and the ability to provide value-added services. 

&#160;

North America 

The independent chemical distribution market in North America is fragmented. Our principal competitors in North America include Brenntag, Helm America, Hydrite Chemical, Prinova and Nexeo Solutions. We also compete with a number of smaller companies in certain niche markets. 

EMEA 

The independent chemical distribution market in Europe historically has been highly fragmented. Consolidation among chemical distributors has increased, mirroring developments within the chemical sector as a whole. 

Brenntag is our leading competitor in Europe due to its strong market position in Germany, which is the largest European chemical distribution market. Other regional competitors in Europe include Azelis, Helm and IMCD. We believe that we are the leading chemical distributor in the United Kingdom and Ireland. 

Rest of World 

In Rest of World, the markets for chemical distribution are much more fragmented and credible competitive information for smaller companies is not available. Our relative competitive position in the Rest of World markets is smaller than in North America or EMEA. 

Regulatory Matters 

Our business is subject to a wide range of regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Among other things, these laws and regulations relate to environmental protection, economic sanctions, product regulation, anti-terrorism concerns, management, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous chemicals and other dangerous goods, and occupational health and safety issues. Changes in and introductions of regulations have in the past caused us to devote significant management and capital resources to compliance programs and measures. New laws, regulations, or changing interpretations of existing laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with current laws, regulations or interpretations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The following summary illustrates some of the significant regulatory and legal requirements applicable to our business. 

Environmental, Health and Safety Matters 

We operate in a number of jurisdictions and are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment, human health and safety, including laws regulating discharges of hazardous substances into the soil, air and water, blending, managing, handling, storing, selling, transporting and disposing of hazardous substances, investigation and remediation of contaminated properties and protecting the safety of our employees and others. Some of our operations are required to hold environmental permits and licenses. The cost of complying with these environmental, health and safety laws, permits and licenses has, in some instances, been substantial. 

Some of our historic operations, including those of companies we acquired, have resulted in contamination at a number of currently and formerly owned or operated sites. We are required to investigate and remediate at many of such sites. Contamination at these sites generally resulted from releases of chemicals and other hazardous substances. We have spent substantial sums on such investigation and remediation and expect to continue to incur such expenditures, or discover additional sites in need of investigation and remediation, until such investigation and remediation is deemed complete. Information on our environmental reserves is included in &#147;Note 18: Commitments and contingencies&#148; to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 which are included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10K. 

&#160;

CERCLA . The U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA, also known as Superfund, as well as similar laws in other jurisdictions, governs the remediation of contaminated sites and establishes liability for the release of hazardous substances at such sites. A party that transported waste, or arranged for the shipment of waste, to a waste disposal facility or other third party site that requires remediation can be liable for the cost of cleanup regardless of fault, the lawfulness of the disposal or the actions of other parties. Under CERCLA, the EPA or a delegated state agency can oversee or require remediation of such sites and seek cost recovery from any party whose wastes were disposed at, or who otherwise contributed to the contamination of, such sites. We are party to consent agreements with the EPA and state regulatory authorities with respect to environmental remediation at a number of such sites. We may be identified as a Potentially Responsible Party at additional third party sites or waste disposal facilities. 

RCRA . The EPA regulates the generation, transport, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous waste under the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA. RCRA also sets forth a framework for managing non-hazardous waste. Most owners and operators of hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal facilities must obtain a RCRA permit. RCRA also mandates certain operating, recordkeeping and reporting obligations for owners and operators of hazardous waste facilities. Our facilities generate various hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and we are a hazardous waste transporter and temporary storage facility. As a result of such activities, we are required to comply with RCRA requirements, including the maintenance of financial resources and security to address forced closures or accidental releases. 

Clean Air Act . The U.S. Clean Air Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions establish a variety of air pollution control measures, including limits for a number of airborne pollutants. These laws also establish controls for emissions from automobiles and trucks, regulate hazardous air pollutants emitted from industrial sources and address the production of substances that deplete stratospheric ozone. Under the Clean Air Act, we are required to obtain permits for, and report on emissions of, certain air pollutants, or qualify for and maintain records substantiating that we qualify for an exemption. Owners and operators of facilities that handle certain quantities of flammable and toxic substances must implement and regularly update detailed risk management plans filed with and approved by the EPA. Failure to comply with the Clean Air Act may subject us to fines, penalties and other governmental and private actions. 

Clean Water Act . Many of the jurisdictions in which we operate regulate water quality and contamination of water. In the United States, the EPA regulates discharges of pollutants into U.S. waters, sets wastewater standards for industry and establishes water quality standards for surface waters, such as streams, rivers and lakes, under the U.S. Clean Water Act. The discharge of any regulated pollutant from point sources (such as pipes and manmade ditches) into navigable waters requires a permit from the EPA or a delegated state agency. Several of our facilities have obtained permits for discharges of treated process wastewater directly to surface waters. In addition, several of our facilities discharge to municipal wastewater treatment facilities and therefore are required to obtain pretreatment discharge permits from local agencies. A number of our facilities also have storm water discharge permits. 

Oil Pollution Prevention Regulations . The Oil Pollution Prevention regulations promulgated by the EPA under the authority of the Clean Water Act require that facilities storing oil in excess of threshold quantities or which have the ability to reach navigable water have a spill prevention, control and countermeasure, or SPCC, plan. Many of our facilities have SPCC plans or similar oil storage plans required in non-U.S. jurisdictions. 

Storage Requirements . Our warehouse facilities are required to comply with applicable permits and zoning requirements from local regulatory authorities and pursuant to leases. These requirements, which differ based on type of facility and location, define structural specifications and establish limits on building usage. Regulators typically have the authority to address non-compliance with storage requirements through fines, penalties and other administrative sanctions. 

&#160;

EPCRA . The U.S. Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act, or EPCRA, establishes reporting rules for facilities that store or manage chemicals and requires such facilities to maintain certain safety data. EPCRA is intended to facilitate state and local planning for chemical emergencies. EPCRA requires state and local emergency planning and emergency response authorities to be informed of the presence of specified quantities of &#147;extremely hazardous substances&#148; at a facility and the release of listed hazardous substances above threshold quantities. Facilities that store or use significant amounts of toxic chemicals must also submit annual toxic chemical release reports containing information about the types and amounts of toxic chemicals that are released into the air, water and soil, as well as information on the quantities of toxic chemicals sent to other facilities. We store and handle a number of chemicals subject to EPCRA reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 

TSCA . The U.S. Toxic Substances Control Act, or TSCA, and similar laws in other jurisdictions, are intended to ensure that chemicals do not pose unreasonable risks to human health or the environment. TSCA requires the EPA to maintain the TSCA registry listing chemicals manufactured or processed in the United States. Chemicals not listed on the TSCA registry cannot be imported into or sold in the United States until registered with the EPA. TSCA also sets forth specific reporting, recordkeeping and testing rules for chemicals, including requirements for the import and export of certain chemicals, as well as other restrictions relevant to our business. Pursuant to TSCA, the EPA from time to time issues Significant New Use Rules, or SNURs, when it identifies new uses of chemicals that could pose risks to human health or the environment and also requires pre-manufacture notification of new chemical substances that do not appear on the TSCA registry. When we import chemicals into the United States, we must ensure that chemicals appear on the TSCA registry prior to import, participate in the SNUR process when a chemical we import requires testing data and report to the EPA information relating to quantities, identities and uses of imported chemicals. 

FIFRA and Other Pesticide and Biocide Regulations . We have a significant operation in the distribution and sale of pesticides and biocides. These products are regulated in many jurisdictions. In the United States, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, or FIFRA, authorizes the EPA to oversee and regulate the manufacture, distribution, sale and use of pesticides and biocides. We are required to register with the EPA and certain state regulatory authorities as a seller and repackager of pesticides and biocides. The EPA may cancel registration of any pesticide or biocide that does not comply with FIFRA, effectively prohibiting the manufacture, sale, distribution or use of such product in the United States. 

The EPA has established procedures and standards for the design of pesticide and biocide containers, as well as the removal of pesticides and biocides from such containers prior to disposal. Applicable regulations also prescribe specific labeling requirements and establish standards to prevent leaks and spills of pesticides and biocides from containment structures at bulk storage sites and dispensing operations. These standards apply to dealers who repackage pesticides, commercial applicators and custom blenders. 

REACH . In Europe, our business is affected by legislation dealing with the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals, or REACH. REACH requires manufacturers and importers of chemical substances to register such substances with the European Chemicals Agency, or the ECHA, and enables European and national authorities to track such substances. Depending on the amount of chemical substances to be manufactured or imported, and the specific risks of each substance, REACH requires different sets of data to be included in the registration submitted to the ECHA. Registration of substances with the ECHA imposes significant recordkeeping requirements that can result in significant financial obligations for chemical distributors, such as us, to import products into Europe. REACH is accompanied by legislation regulating the classification, labeling and packaging of chemical substances and mixtures. 

GHG Emissions . In the U.S., various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions are in various phases of discussion or implementation. At the federal legislative level, Congress has previously considered legislation requiring a mandatory reduction of GHG emissions. Although Congressional passage of such legislation does not appear likely at this time, it could be adopted at a future date. 

&#160;

It is also possible that Congress may pass alternative climate change bills that do not mandate a nationwide cap-and-trade program and instead focus on promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency. In the absence of congressional legislation curbing GHG emissions, the EPA is moving ahead administratively under its Clean Air Act authority. 

The implementation of additional EPA regulations and/or the passage of federal or state climate change legislation will likely result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities. Increased costs associated with compliance with any future legislation or regulation of GHG emissions, if it occurs, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. 

Internationally, many of the countries in which we do business (but not the U.S.) have ratified the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or the Kyoto Protocol, and we have been subject to its requirements, particularly in the European Union. Many nations entered into the Copenhagen Accord, which may result in a new international climate change treaty in the future. If so, we may become subject to different and more restrictive regulation on climate change to the extent the countries in which we do business implement such a new treaty. 

OSHA . We are subject to workplace safety laws in many jurisdictions, including the United States. The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA, which addresses safety and health in workplace environments and establishes maximum workplace chemical exposure levels for indoor air quality. Chemical manufacturers and importers must employ a hazard communication program utilizing labels and other forms of warnings, as well as Material Safety Data Sheets, setting forth safety and hazardous materials information to employees and customers. Employers must provide training to ensure that relevant employees are equipped to properly handle chemicals. 

We train employees and visitors who have access to chemical handling areas. OSHA requires the use of personal protective equipment when other controls are not feasible or effective in reducing the risk of exposure to serious workplace injuries or illnesses resulting from contact with hazardous substances or other workplace hazards. Employers must conduct workplace assessments to determine what hazards require personal protective equipment, and must provide appropriate equipment to workers. 

OSHA operates a process safety management rule, or PSM Rule, that requires employers to compile written process safety information, operating procedures and facility management plans, conduct hazard analyses, develop written action plans for employee participation in safety management and certify every three years that they have evaluated their compliance with process safety requirements. Employees must have access to safety analyses and related information, and employers must maintain and provide process-specific training to relevant employees. We handle several chemicals that are hazardous and listed under the PSM Rule, which imposes extensive obligations on our handling of these chemicals and results in significant costs on our operations. 

OSHA&#146;s Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response rules require employers and employees to comply with certain safety standards when conducting operations involving the exposure or potential exposure to hazardous substances and wastes. These standards require hazardous substances preparedness training for employees and generally apply to individuals engaged in cleanup operations, facility operations entailing the treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes, and emergency responses to uncontrolled releases of hazardous substances. 

OSHA regulations require employers to develop and maintain an emergency action plan to direct employer and employee actions in the event of a workplace emergency. Under most circumstances, the plan must be maintained in writing, remain accessible at the workplace and be made available to employees for review. 

Each of our business units has an obligation to report its Environmental Health and Safety, or EHS, risks and performance to an internal oversight function. EHS risks and performance are tracked through audits, 

&#160;

evaluations and reporting. We have implemented an internal integrated risk management audit system through which EHS risks are evaluated and improvement measures proposed. In addition, our sites undergo periodic external audits, including audits by governmental authorities and certification institutions. 

Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards . The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, or DHS, regulates certain high-risk chemical facilities through its Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards. These standards establish a Chemical Security Assessment Tool comprised of four elements, including facility user registration, top-screen evaluation, security vulnerability assessment and site security planning. The site security plan must address any vulnerabilities identified in the security vulnerability assessment, including access control, personnel credentialing, recordkeeping, employee training, emergency response, testing of security equipment, reporting of security incidents and suspicious activity, and deterring, detecting and delaying potential attacks. DHS must approve all security vulnerability assessments and site security plans. We handle a number of chemicals regulated by DHS. 

Other Regulations 

We are subject to other foreign, federal, state and local regulations. For example, many of the products we repackage, blend and distribute are subject to Food and Drug Administration regulations governing the handling of chemicals used in food, food processing or pharmaceutical applications. Compliance with these regulations requires testing, additional policies, procedures and documentation and segregation of products. In addition, we are subject to a variety of state and local regulations, including those relating to the fire protection standards, and local licensing and permitting of various aspects of our operations and facilities. 

Legal Proceedings 

In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to periodic lawsuits, investigations and claims. Although we cannot predict with certainty the ultimate resolution of pending or future lawsuits, investigations and claims asserted against us, we do not believe that any currently pending legal proceeding to which we are a party is likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. See &#147;Note 18: Commitments and Contingencies&#148; in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

Asbestos Claims 

In its 1986 purchase of McKesson Chemical Company from McKesson Corporation, or McKesson, our wholly owned subsidiary, Univar USA Inc., entered into an indemnification agreement with McKesson. Univar USA has an obligation to defend and indemnify McKesson for claims alleging injury from exposure to asbestos-containing products sold by McKesson Chemical Company, or the asbestos claims. Univar USA&#146;s obligation to indemnify McKesson for settlements and judgments arising from asbestos claims is the amount which is in excess of applicable insurance coverage, if any, which may be available under McKesson&#146;s historical insurance coverage. In addition, we are currently defending a small number of claims which name Univar USA as a defendant. 

As of December 31, 2015, Univar USA has accepted the tender of, and is defending McKesson in, 11 pending separate-plaintiff claims in multi-plaintiff lawsuits filed in the State of Mississippi. These lawsuits have multiple plaintiffs, include a large number of defendants, and provide no specific information on the plaintiffs&#146; injuries and do not connect the plaintiffs&#146; injuries to any specific sources of asbestos. Additionally, the majority of the plaintiffs in these lawsuits have not put forth evidence that they have been seriously injured from exposure to asbestos. No new claims in Mississippi have been received since 2010. At the peak there were approximately 16,000 such claims pending against McKesson. To date, the costs for defending these cases have not been material, and the cases that have been finalized have either been dismissed or resolved with either minimal or no payments. Although we cannot predict the outcome of pending or future claims or lawsuits with 

&#160;

certainty, we believe the future defense and liability costs for the Mississippi cases will not be material. Univar USA has not recorded a reserve related to these lawsuits, as it has determined that losses are neither probable nor estimable. 

As of December 31, 2015, Univar USA was defending fewer than 185 single-plaintiff asbestos claims against McKesson (or Univar USA as a successor in interest to McKesson Chemical Company) pending in the states of Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Missouri, Ohio, Rhode Island, South Carolina and Texas. These cases differ from the Mississippi multi-plaintiff cases in that they are single-plaintiff cases with the plaintiff alleging substantial specific injuries from exposure to asbestos-containing products. These cases are similar to the Mississippi cases in that numerous defendants are named and that they provide little specific information connecting the plaintiffs&#146; injuries to any specific source of asbestos. Although we cannot predict the outcome of pending or future claims or lawsuits with certainty, we believe the liabilities for these cases will not be material. In 2015, there were 74 single-plaintiff lawsuits filed against McKesson and 49 cases against McKesson which were resolved. As of December 31, 2015, Univar USA had reserved $50,000 related to pending litigation. 

Environmental Remediation 

We are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that require environmental assessment or remediation efforts, or, collectively, environmental remediation work, at approximately 130 locations, some that are now or were previously owned or occupied by us and some that were never owned or occupied by us, or non-owned sites. 

Our environmental remediation work at some sites is being conducted pursuant to governmental proceedings or investigations, while we, with appropriate state or federal agency oversight and approval, are conducting the environmental remediation work at other sites voluntarily. We are currently undergoing remediation efforts or are in the process of active review of the need for potential remediation efforts at approximately 103 current or formerly owned or occupied sites. In addition, we may be liable for a share of the clean-up of approximately 27 non-owned sites. These non-owned sites are typically (a) locations of independent waste disposal or recycling operations with alleged or confirmed contaminated soil and/or groundwater to which we may have shipped waste products or drums for re-conditioning, or (b) contaminated non-owned sites near historical sites owned or operated by us or our predecessors from which contamination is alleged to have arisen. 

In determining the appropriate level of environmental reserves, we consider several factors such as information obtained from investigatory studies; changes in the scope of remediation; the interpretation, application and enforcement of laws and regulations; changes in the costs of remediation programs; the development of alternative cleanup technologies and methods; and the relative level of our involvement at various sites for which we are allegedly associated. The level of annual expenditures for remedial, monitoring and investigatory activities will change in the future as major components of planned remediation activities are completed and the scope, timing and costs of existing activities are changed. Project lives, and therefore cash flows, range from 2 to 30 years, depending on the specific site and type of remediation project. 

Although we believe that our reserves are adequate for environmental contingencies, it is possible that additional reserves could be required in the future that could have a material effect on the overall financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. This additional loss or range of losses cannot be recorded at this time, as it is not reasonably estimable. 

Other Environmental Matters 

On December 9, 2014, Univar USA Inc. was issued a violation notice from the Pollution Control Services Department of Harris County, Texas, or PCS. The notice relates to claims that the Company&#146;s facility on Luthe Road in Houston, Texas operated with inadequate air emissions controls and improperly discharged certain waste without authorization. On March 6, 2015, PCS notified Univar USA Inc. that the matter was forwarded to the 

&#160;

Harris County District Attorney&#146;s Office with a request for an enforcement action. No such action has commenced. The Company continues to investigate and evaluate the claims. 

In April 2015, the Company&#146;s subsidiary Magnablend Inc. (&#147;Magnablend&#148;) was advised that the United States Environmental Protection Agency (&#147;EPA&#148;) was considering bringing an enforcement action against Magnablend. The matter relates to a January 26, 2015 incident at Magnablend&#146;s Waxahachie, Texas facility at which a 300 gallon plastic container of sodium chlorite burst as a result of a chemical reaction. This matter has now been resolved by Magnablend making a payment of $37,500 to the EPA. 

Competition Claims 

At the end of May 2013, the Autorit&#233; de la concurrence, France&#146;s competition authority, fined us $19.91 million (&#128;15.18 million) for alleged price fixing. The price fixing was alleged to have occurred prior to 2006. We will not appeal the fine which was paid in full as of December 31, 2013. 

Customs and International Trade Laws 

In April 2012, the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, issued a civil investigative demand to us in connection with an investigation into our compliance with applicable customs and international trade laws and regulations relating to the importation of saccharin since December 27, 2002. At around the same time, we became aware of an investigation being conducted by U.S. Customs and Border Patrol, or CBP, into our importation of saccharin. On February 26, 2014, a Qui Tam relator who had sued us and two other defendants under seal dismissed its lawsuit. The federal government, through the DOJ, declined to intervene in that lawsuit in November 2013, and as a result, the DOJ&#146;s inquiry related to the Qui Tam lawsuit is now finished. CBP continues its investigation on our importation of saccharin. On July 21, 2014, CBP sent us a &#147;Pre-Penalty Notice&#148; indicating the imposition of a penalty against us in the amount of approximately $84 million. We have responded to CBP that the proposed penalty is not justified and on October 1, 2014, the CBP issued a penalty notice to Univar USA Inc. for $84 million. We have not recorded a liability related to this investigation. 

Canadian Assessment 

In 2007, the outstanding shares of Univar N.V., at such time the ultimate parent of Univar, were acquired by investment funds advised by CVC. To facilitate the acquisition of Univar N.V. by CVC, a Canadian restructuring was completed. In February 2013, the Canada Revenue Agency (&#147;CRA&#148;) issued a Notice of Assessment for withholding tax of $29.4 million (Canadian). We filed our Notice of Objection to the Assessment in April 2013 and our Notice of Appeal of the Assessment in July 2013. In November 2013, the CRA&#146;s Reply to our Notice of Appeal was filed with the Tax Court of Canada and litigated in June 2015. We have not yet received the Tax Court of Canada&#146;s decision on the matter. 

In September 2014, the CRA issued the 2008 and 2009 Notice of Reassessments for federal corporate income tax liabilities of $11.9 million (Canadian) and $11.0 million (Canadian), respectively, and a departure tax liability of $9.0 million (Canadian). We filed our Notice of Objection to the Reassessments in September 2014. In April 2015 we received the 2008 and 2009 Alberta Notice of Reassessments of $6.0 million (Canadian) and $5.8 million (Canadian), respectively. We filed our Notice of Objection to the Alberta Reassessments in June 2015. The Reassessments reflect the additional tax liability and interest relating to those tax years should the CRA be successful in its assertion of the General Anti-Avoidance Rule relating to the Canadian restructuring described above. At December 31, 2015, the total federal and provincial tax liability assessed to date, including interest of $33.4 million (Canadian), is $106.5 million (Canadian). In August 2014, we remitted a required deposit on the February 2013 Notice of Assessment relating to our 2007 tax year by issuing a Letter of Credit in the amount of $44.7 million (Canadian). The Letter of Credit amount reflects the proposed assessment of $29.4 million (Canadian) and accrued interest, and will expire in August 2016. 

&#160;

In February 2015, the CRA notified us that we will be required to remit a cash deposit of approximately $21.5 million (Canadian) in March 2015, representing one-half of the September 2014 Notice of Assessment tax liability relating to tax years 2008 and 2009, plus interest. In March 2015, we requested a judicial review of this additional cash deposit requirement at the Federal Court (Canada). The CRA subsequently advised that its decision was not final and requested that we withdraw our request for judicial review. We subsequently withdrew our request and provided the CRA with our submission to hold the collection of the assessments relating to tax years 2008 and 2009 in abeyance pending the outcome of the Tax Court of Canada&#146;s decision on the General Anti-Avoidance Rule matter. 

We have not recorded any liabilities for these matters in our financial statements, as we believe it is more likely than not that our position will be sustained. 

Proprietary Rights 

We rely primarily on trademarks, copyrights and trade secret laws to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our intellectual property including technology, creative works and products. 

We currently own trademark registrations or pending applications in approximately 67 countries for the Univar name and in approximately 41 countries for the Univar hexagon logo. Each of the issued registrations is current and valid for the maximum available statutory duration and can be renewed prior to expiration of the relevant statutory period. We renew the registrations as they become due for both of these marks. We claim common law rights in the mark &#147;Univar&#148; and other Univar-owned trademarks in those jurisdictions that recognize trademark rights based on use without registration. Additionally, we currently own registrations and pending applications in the United States and various jurisdictions for numerous other trademarks that identify Univar as the source of products and services, including &#147;ChemPoint.com&#148;, &#147;ChemCare&#148;, and &#147;PESTWEB&#148;. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed more than 9,200 persons on a full time equivalent basis worldwide. Approximately 680 of our employees in the United States are represented by labor unions. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 25% of our labor force was covered by a collective bargaining agreement, including approximately 14% of our labor force in the United States, approximately 18% of our labor force in Canada and approximately 48% of our labor force in Europe, and approximately 3% of our labor force was covered by a collective bargaining agreement that will expire within one year. We have experienced no recent material work stoppages. In addition, in several of our facilities located outside the United States, particularly those in Europe, employees are represented by works councils appointed pursuant to local law consisting of employee representatives who have certain rights to negotiate working terms and to receive notice of significant actions. These arrangements grant certain protections to employees and subject us to employment terms that are similar to collective bargaining agreements. We believe our relationship with our employees continues to be good. 

&#160;

