 Item 1 . Business . 

&#160; 

The Cooper Companies, Inc. (Cooper, we or the Company), a Delaware corporation organized in 1980, is a global medical device company publicly traded on the NYSE Euronext (NYSE: COO). Cooper is dedicated to being A Quality of Life Company TM &#32;with a focus on shareholder value. Cooper operates through two business units, CooperVision, Inc. and CooperSurgical, Inc. 

&#160; 

CooperVision is a global manufacturer providing products for contact lens wearers. CooperVision develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of single-use, two-week and monthly contact lenses, featuring advanced materials and optics. CooperVision's products are designed to solve vision challenges such as astigmatism, presbyopia, ocular dryness and eye fatigue; with a broad collection of spherical, toric and multifocal contact lenses. CooperVision's products are primarily manufactured at its facilities located in the United Kingdom, Puerto Rico, Hungary, Costa Rica, and New York. CooperVision distributes products out of its facilities in New York, the United Kingdom, Belgium and various smaller international distribution facilities. 

CooperSurgical's business competes in the general health care market with a focus on advancing the health of families through a diversified portfolio of products and services focusing on women's health, fertility and genetic testing. CooperSurgical customers are health care professionals and institutions providing care to individuals within these areas including point of health care delivery in the hospital, clinician's office and fertility clinics. CooperSurgical's major manufacturing and distribution facilities are located in Connecticut, Texas, Denmark and various smaller international locations, with diagnostic facilities located in multiple locations including California, Florida, Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey, Oregon, Texas, and internationally in Canada and the United Kingdom. 

CooperVision and CooperSurgical each operate in highly competitive environments. Competition in the medical device industry is dynamic and involves the search for technological and therapeutic innovations. Both of Cooper's businesses compete predominantly on the basis of product quality and differentiation, technological benefit, service and reliability. 

&#160; 

COOPERVISION 

&#160; 

CooperVision competes in the worldwide soft contact lens market and services three primary regions: the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific. The contact lens market has two major product categories: 

&#8226; 

Spherical lenses including lenses that correct near- and farsightedness uncomplicated by more complex visual defects. 

&#8226; 

Toric and multifocal lenses including lenses that, in addition to correcting near- and farsightedness, address more complex visual defects such as astigmatism and presbyopia by adding optical properties of cylinder and axis, which correct for irregularities in the shape of the cornea. 

In order to achieve comfortable and healthy contact lens wear, products are sold with recommended replacement schedules, often defined as modalities, with the primary modalities being single-use, two-week and monthly. Dailies are the fastest modality in the contact lens segment and comprised approximately 46% and 44% of the contact lens market in 2016 and 2015, respectively, representing a growth of approximately 10% based on recent market estimates. 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CooperVision offers spherical, aspherical, toric, multifocal and toric multifocal lens products in most modalities. We believe that in order to compete successfully in the numerous categories of the contact lens market, companies must offer differentiated products that are priced competitively and manufactured efficiently. CooperVision believes that it is the only contact lens manufacturer to use three different manufacturing processes to produce its lenses: lathing, cast molding and FIPS&#8482;, a cost-effective combination of lathing and molding. We believe this manufacturing flexibility allows CooperVision to compete in its markets by: 

&#8226; 

Producing high, medium and low volumes of lenses made with a variety of materials for a broader range of market niches: single-use, two-week, monthly and quarterly disposable sphere, toric and multifocal lenses and custom toric lenses for patients with a high degree of astigmatism. 

&#8226; 

Offering a wide range of lens parameters, leading to a higher rate of successful fitting for practitioners and better visual acuity for patients. 

Sales of contact lenses utilizing silicone hydrogel materials continue to grow and this product material represents about 79% of the monthly and two week modalities and 23% of the single use modality of the contact lens market. Silicone hydrogel materials supply a higher level of oxygen to the cornea, as measured by the transmissibility of oxygen through a given thickness of material, or &#8220;dk/t,&#8221; than traditional hydrogel lenses. We believe our ability to compete successfully with a full range of silicone hydrogel products is an important factor to achieving success in our business. Silicone hydrogel lenses now represent a significant portion of CooperVision's contact lens sales and our Biofinity &#174; &#32;brand is CooperVision's leading product line. Under the Biofinity &#174; &#32;brand, CooperVision markets monthly silicone hydrogel spherical, toric and multifocal lens products. 

CooperVision markets single-use silicone hydrogel spherical, toric and multifocal lenses under our clariti &#174; &#32;1day brand and single-use silicone hydrogel spherical and toric lenses under MyDay &#174; . Our clariti 1day brand provides the only single-use silicone hydrogel lenses in the marketplace with a complete line of spherical, toric and multifocal contact lenses. We also compete effectively in the traditional hydrogel single-use product segment with several lenses including our Proclear &#174; &#32;1 Day lenses. We believe the global market for single-use contact lenses will continue to grow and that our competitive silicone hydrogel and traditional hydrogel product offerings represent an opportunity for our business. 

CooperVision's Proclear line of spherical, toric and multifocal lenses are manufactured with omafilcon, a material that incorporates Phosphorylcholine (PC) Technology&#8482; that helps enhance tissue-device compatibility. Proclear lenses are the only lenses with FDA clearance for the claim "&#8230; may provide improved comfort for contact lens wearers who experience mild discomfort or symptoms relating to dryness during lens wear", which is important as mild discomfort relating to dryness during lens wear is a condition that often causes patients to discontinue contact lens use. 

In addition to its PC Technology&#8482; and silicone hydrogel product offerings, CooperVision competes in the contact lens market with other traditional hydrogel products. 

Contact Lens Product Sales 

Spheres: Net sales of CooperVision's spherical lenses represented 55 percent of CooperVision's net sales in fiscal 2016 including net sales of single-use spherical lens that represented 26 percent of net sales in the fiscal year. Non single-use spherical lens represented 29 percent of net sales in fiscal 2016. 

Toric: Net sales of CooperVision's toric lenses represented 30 percent of CooperVision's net sales in fiscal 2016. 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Multifocal: Net sales of multifocal lenses represented 11 percent of net sales in the fiscal year. 

Silicone Hydrogel: &#32;CooperVision's silicone hydrogel spherical, toric and multifocal lens products, including Biofinity, clariti, Avaira and MyDay products, represented 60 percent of CooperVision's net sales in fiscal 2016. 

Proclear: Net sales of CooperVision's PC Technology spherical, toric and multifocal products, including Proclear 1 Day sphere and multifocal products, represented 19 percent of CooperVision's net sales in fiscal 2016. 

CooperVision Competition 

The contact lens market is highly competitive. CooperVision's three largest competitors in the worldwide market and its primary competitors in the spherical, toric and multifocal lens categories of that market are Johnson &#38; Johnson Vision Care, Inc., Alcon (formerly CIBA Vision Corporation) owned by Novartis AG, and Bausch &#38; Lomb Incorporated owned by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc. 

CooperVision's primary competitors in the contact lens business have greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes. CooperVision seeks to offer a high level of customer service through its direct sales organizations around the world and through telephone sales and technical service representatives who consult with eye care professionals about the use of our lens products. 

CooperVision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and with refractive surgical procedures that correct visual defects. CooperVision believes that there are opportunities for contact lenses to gain market share, particularly in markets where the penetration of contact lenses in the vision correction market is low. CooperVision also believes that laser vision correction is not a significant threat to its sales of contact lenses based on the growth of the contact lens market over the past decade. 

Over the past decade, competition has continued to shift its focus. As an example, the contact lens industry has experienced a global shift toward silicone hydrogel lenses that now represent approximately 79% of the monthly and two week modalities and 23% of the single use modality of the contact lens market. CooperVision competes in the silicone hydrogel segment of the market with its following products: Biofinity monthly spherical, toric and multifocal lenses; Avaira &#174; &#32;and Avaira Vitality TM &#32;two-week spherical and toric lenses; clariti 1day brand of single-use sphere, toric and multifocal lenses; and MyDay single-use spherical and toric lenses. The clariti 1day and MyDay brands of single-use contact lenses provide CooperVision with the broadest product portfolio in the single-use silicone hydrogel market. 

In the toric lens market, a similar shift toward silicone hydrogel lenses has occurred, but we believe that lens manufacturers also continue to compete to provide the highest possible level of visual acuity and patient satisfaction by offering a wide range of lens parameters, superior wearing comfort and a high level of customer service, both for patients and contact lens practitioners. CooperVision competes based on the fact that its three manufacturing processes allow CooperVision to produce a broad range of toric lens parameters, which we believe provides wide choices for patient and practitioner and a high level of visual acuity. We also compete based on our customer and professional services. 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

COOPERSURGICAL 

CooperSurgical offers a broad array of products and services focused on advancing the health of families through a diversified portfolio of products and services focusing on women's health, fertility and diagnostics. The Company offers quality products, innovative technologies and superior services to clinicians and patients worldwide. CooperSurgical collaborates with clinicians to identify products and new technologies from disposable products to diagnostic tests to sophisticated instruments and equipment, to bring new products to market. The result is a broad portfolio of products and services that are intended to aid in the delivery of improved clinical outcomes that health care professionals use routinely in the diagnosis and treatment of a wide spectrum of family and women's health and reproductive issues. 

Since its inception in 1990, CooperSurgical has established its market presence and distribution system by developing products and acquiring products and companies that complement its business model. 

CooperSurgical competes in the global in-vitro fertilization (IVF) market with a product portfolio of IVF media and assisted reproductive technology solutions designed to enhance the work of fertility professionals to the benefit of families. 

We have continued to invest in CooperSurgical's business through the acquisition of companies and product lines for new or complementary products and services for the IVF process. Subsequent to our year end, in November 2016, we acquired Wallace, the IVF segment of Smiths Medical International, Ltd. In our fiscal third quarter of 2016, we acquired the commercial assets of Recombine Inc., a clinical genetic testing company specializing in carrier screening; Kivex Biotec A/S (K-Systems), a manufacturer and distributor of equipment for IVF clinics, and Reprogenetics UK, a genetics laboratory specializing in service offerings of preimplantation genetic screening (PGS) and preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) used during the IVF process. In our fiscal second quarter of 2016, CooperSurgical acquired Genesis Genetics, Inc., a genetics laboratory specializing in PGS and PGD used during the IVF process, and The Pipette Company, a manufacturer and distributor of micro pipettes for the Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) market. In our first quarter of fiscal 2016, CooperSurgical acquired Research Instruments Limited, a manufacturer and supplier of IVF medical devices and systems. Finally, in our fiscal fourth quarter of 2015, CooperSurgical acquired Reprogenetics, a genetics laboratory in the US specializing in service offerings of PGS and PGD used during the IVF process. We intend to continue investing in CooperSurgical's business with the goal of expanding our integrated solutions model within the areas of women&#8217;s health, fertility and diagnostics. 

Market for Women's and Family Reproductive Health Care 

CooperSurgical participates in the market for women's health care with its diversified product lines in three major categories based on the point of health care delivery: primarily hospitals and surgical centers, obstetricians' and gynecologists' (ob/gyns) medical offices and fertility clinics. 

CooperSurgical expects patient visits to ob/gyns in the United States to increase over the next decade. Office visit activity related to menopause, including abnormal bleeding, incontinence and osteoporosis, are expected to increase slightly over the next decade. Driving the growth is a steady number of reproductive age women with increasing fertility issues, a large and stable middle-aged population and a growing population of women over the age of 65 according to United States Census estimates. CooperSurgical expects growth in fertility treatments as more women choose to delay childbearing to the mid-thirties and beyond. 

Another trend in the market for women's health care includes the migration of ob/gyn clinicians away from private practice ownership and toward aligning with group practices or employment with hospitals and health care systems. This trend includes the increasing influence of supply chain controls, such as value analysis 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

committees, on product evaluation and procurement. CooperSurgical believes that the market factors that are driving this trend will continue in the near term. We believe our broad product portfolio can be a benefit in this changing environment as health systems look to standardize and consolidate vendors. 

The response in the United States market to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (Affordable Care Act or ACA) includes the development of new models of health care delivery. One goal of these new models is to deliver more cost-effective health care including a trend to move treatment out of hospitals and surgery centers and into the office setting without compromising care. We expect this trend to continue. 

While general medical practitioners play an important role in women's primary care, the ob/gyn specialist is the primary market for our medical devices. 

Some significant features of this market are: 

&#8226; 

Patient visits are for annual checkups, cancer screening, menstrual disorders, vaginitis (inflammation of vaginal tissue), treatment of abnormal Pap smears, osteoporosis (reduction in bone mass) and the management of menopause, pregnancy and reproductive management. 

&#8226; 

We believe that approximately one-third of the office visits to ob/gyns are patients seeking diagnosis and treatment for the symptoms of abnormal uterine bleeding. 

&#8226; 

Ob/gyns traditionally provide the initial evaluation for women and their partners who seek infertility assistance. Ovulatory drugs and intrauterine insemination (IUI) are common treatments in these cases. 

&#8226; 

IVF is performed by reproductive endocrinologists, a subgroup of ob/gyns, along with partner embryologists. 

&#8226; 

Osteoporosis and incontinence have become frequent diagnoses as the female population ages. Early identification and treatment of these conditions will both improve women's health and help reduce overall costs of treatment. 

&#8226; 

Sterilization is a frequently performed procedure. 

&#8226; 

Hysterectomy is one of the most commonly performed surgical procedures. 

&#8226; 

Hysteroscopy is commonly used in the evaluation of abnormal uterine bleeding. 

&#8226; 

The trend to move hospital-based procedures to an office or clinical setting is continuing as a method to reduce cost to the health care system without compromising clinical outcomes. 

&#8226; 

Increased awareness of improved IVF outcomes with preimplantation genetic screening will continue. 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Women's and Family Reproductive Health Care Product Sales 

Net sales of CooperSurgical products used in office and surgical procedures represented 55% of CooperSurgical's net sales in fiscal 2016. Net sales of fertility products and services represented 45% of CooperSurgical's net sales in fiscal 2016. 

CooperSurgical Competition 

CooperSurgical focuses on selected segments of the family and women's health care market, supplying diagnostic products, services, and surgical instruments and accessories. In some instances, CooperSurgical offers all of the items needed for a complete procedure. CooperSurgical believes that opportunities exist for continued market consolidation of smaller technology-driven firms that generally offer only one or two product lines. Most are privately owned or divisions of public companies including some owned by companies with greater financial resources than Cooper. 

Competitive factors in these segments include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price, customer service and effective communication of product information to physicians, fertility clinics and hospitals. CooperSurgical competes based on our sales and marketing expertise and the technological advantages of our products. CooperSurgical's strategy includes developing and acquiring new products, including those used in new medical procedures. As CooperSurgical expands its product line, we also offer educational programs for medical professionals in the appropriate use of our products. 

CooperSurgical is seeking to expand our presence in the significantly larger hospital and outpatient surgical procedure segment of the market that is at present dominated by bigger competitors such as Johnson &#38; Johnson's Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Boston Scientific, Olympus and Medtronic. These competitors have well-established positions within the operating room environment. CooperSurgical intends to leverage our &#32; relationship with gynecologic surgeons and focus on devices specific to gynecologic surgery to facilitate our expansion within the surgical segment of the market. 

CooperSurgical also competes in the fertility category of the women's health care market. We have broad product offerings for fertility evaluations and IVF procedures by ob/gyns, reproductive endocrinologists and embryologists. These include products for use by the ob/gyns in their offices for initial evaluations with office based hysteroscopy and first line treatments such as intrauterine insemination. In fertility clinics, our products include media, micro tools and lab equipment; and to improve IVF outcomes we offer testing services intended to increase implantation rates and decrease miscarriages. 

CooperSurgical intends to leverage our relationship with fertility clinics to expand our presence in the fertility market against competitors in the media and microtools categories that include Vitrolife, Cook, Irvine Scientific and Life Global and competitors in fertility and familial reproductive genetic testing that include Natera, Good Start Genetics, Counsyl and Igenomix. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

Cooper employs approximately 216 people in our research and development and manufacturing engineering departments. CooperVision product development and clinical research is supported by internal and external specialists in lens design, formulation science, polymer chemistry, clinical trials, microbiology and biochemistry. CooperVision's research and development activities primarily include programs to develop new contact lens designs along with improving formulations and manufacturing processes. 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CooperSurgical conducts research and development in-house and also has consulting agreements with external specialists. CooperSurgical's research and development activities include the design and improvement of surgical procedure devices, the advancement and expansion of CooperSurgical's portfolio of assisted reproductive technology products, genetic screening and testing, as well as products within the general obstetrics and gynecology offerings. 

Cooper-sponsored research and development expenditures during fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, were $65.4 million, $69.6 million and $66.3 million, respectively. As a percentage of sales, research and development expenditures during fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, were 3%, 4% and 4% respectively. During fiscal 2016, CooperVision represented 72% and CooperSurgical represented 28% of the total research and development expenses, compared to 79% and 21% in fiscal 2015 for CooperVision and CooperSurgical respectively. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

Medical Device Regulation 

Our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States and other regulatory bodies abroad. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and FDA regulations govern, among other things, medical device design and development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, premarket clearance or approval, advertising and promotion, and sales and distribution. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to distribute commercially in the United States will require either prior notice to the FDA requesting clearance for commercial distribution under Section 510(k) of the FDCA, or premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA. A majority of the medical devices we currently market have received FDA clearance through the 510(k) process or approval through the PMA process. Because we cannot be assured that any new products we develop, or any product enhancements, will be exempt from the premarket clearance or approval requirements or will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process rather than the PMA process, significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements may occur. 

Device Classification 

The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes - Class I, II or III - depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure its safety and effectiveness. Both CooperVision and CooperSurgical develop and market medical devices under different levels of FDA regulation depending on the classification of the device. Class III devices, such as flexible and extended wear contact lenses, require extensive premarket testing and approval, while Class I and II devices require lower levels of regulation. The majority of CooperSurgical's products are Class II devices. 

Class I devices are those for which safety and effectiveness can be assured by adherence to the FDA's general regulatory controls for medical devices, which include compliance with the applicable portions of the FDA's Quality System Regulation, facility registration and product listing, reporting of adverse medical events, and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling, advertising, and promotional materials (General Controls). Some Class I devices also require premarket clearance by the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process described below. 

Class II devices are subject to the FDA's General Controls, and any other special controls as deemed necessary by the FDA to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device, such as performance standards, post-market surveillance, FDA guidelines or particularized labeling requirements. Premarket review and clearance by the FDA for Class II devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification procedure. Pursuant to the Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002 (MDUFMA), unless a specific exemption 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

applies, 510(k) premarket notification submissions are subject to user fees. Certain Class II devices are exempt from this premarket review process. 

Class III devices are those devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or certain implantable devices, or which have a new intended use, or use advanced technology that is not substantially equivalent to that of a legally marketed device. The safety and effectiveness of Class III devices cannot be assured solely by the General Controls and other special controls such as those listed above. These devices almost always require formal clinical studies to demonstrate safety and effectiveness and must be approved through the PMA process described below. PMA applications (and supplemental PMA applications) are subject to significantly higher user fees under MDUFMA than are 510(k) premarket notifications. 

510(k) Clearance Pathway 

When we are required to obtain a 510(k) clearance for a device that we wish to market, we must submit a premarket notification to the FDA demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device or a device that was in commercial distribution in the United States before May 28, 1976, for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of PMA applications. The FDA aims to respond to a 510(k) premarket notification within 90 days of submission of the notification, but as a practical matter, clearance can take significantly longer. If the FDA determines that the device is not substantially equivalent to a previously-cleared device, the FDA will not clear the device. Although many 510(k) pre-market notifications are cleared without clinical data, in some cases, the FDA requires significant clinical data to support substantial equivalence. In reviewing a pre-market notification, the FDA may request additional information, including clinical data, which may significantly prolong the review process. 

After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that changes its intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance or could require premarket approval. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination initially, but the FDA can review any such decision and can disagree with a manufacturer's determination. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer's determination that a new clearance or approval is not required for a particular modification, the FDA can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or premarket approval is obtained. In these circumstances, a manufacturer also may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. We have made and plan to continue to make additional product enhancements and modifications to our devices that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearances. 

Premarket Approval Pathway 

A PMA application must be submitted if the device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) premarket notification procedures. The PMA process is much more demanding than the 510(k) premarket notification process. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trials, manufacturing and labeling to demonstrate to the FDA's satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. 

After a PMA application is complete, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the submitted information. The FDA, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review an accepted PMA application, although the review generally occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up to several years. During this review period, the FDA may request additional information, including clinical data, or clarification of information already provided. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. In addition, the FDA will conduct a preapproval inspection of the 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with the Quality System Regulation (QSR), which requires manufacturers to implement and follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures in the device design and manufacturing process. 

The FDA may approve a PMA application with post-approval conditions intended to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale and distribution and collection of long-term follow-up data from patients in the clinical study that supported approval. Failure to comply with the conditions of approval can result in materially adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the approval. New PMA applications or PMA application supplements are required for significant modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling and design of a device that is approved through the premarket approval process. Premarket approval supplements often require submission of the same type of information as a premarket approval application, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the original premarket approval application, and may not require as extensive clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel. 

Clinical Trials 

A clinical trial is almost always required to support a PMA application and is sometimes required for a 510(k) premarket notification. These trials generally require submission of an application for an investigational device exemption (IDE) to the FDA. The IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that the potential benefits of testing the device in humans and the importance of the knowledge to be gained outweighs the risks t o human subjects from the proposed investigation that the testing protocol is scientifically sound and there is reason to believe that the device as proposed for use will be effective. The IDE application must be approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients, unless the product is deemed a non-significant risk device and eligible for more abbreviated investigational device exemption requirements. Clinical trials for a significant risk device may begin once the IDE application is approved by both the FDA and the appropriate institutional review boards at the clinical trial sites. There can be no assurance that submission of an IDE will result in the ability to commence clinical trials. Additionally, after a trial begins, the FDA may place it on hold or terminate it if, among other reasons, it concludes that the clinical subjects are exposed to unacceptable health risks that outweigh the benefits of participation in the study. During a study, we are required to comply with the FDA's IDE requirements for investigator selection, trial monitoring, reporting, record keeping and prohibitions on the promotion of investigational devices or making safety or efficacy claims for them. We are also responsible for the appropriate labeling and distribution of investigational devices. All of Cooper's currently marketed products have been cleared by all appropriate regulatory agencies, and Cooper has no product currently being marketed under an IDE. 

Continuing FDA and Other Government Agency Regulation 

After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: establishment registration and device listing with the FDA; the QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, production, control, complaint handling, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for uncleared or unapproved or &#8220;off-label&#8221; uses and impose other restrictions on labeling, advertising and promotion; new FDA unique device identifier regulations that requires changes to labeling and packaging; and medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. The FDA has broad post-market and regulatory enforcement 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

powers. We are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with the QSR and other regulations. 

Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, or other federal and state government agencies which may include, but may not be limited to, any of the following sanctions or consequences: warning letters or untitled letters; fines, injunctions and civil penalties; recall, seizure or import holds of our products; operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production; refusing to issue certificates to foreign governments needed to export products for sale in other countries; refusing our request for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new or modified products; withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that are already granted; and criminal prosecution. 

Laboratory Developed Tests 

Our genetic testing laboratory services are not currently regulated by the FDA, or foreign ministries of health. Although the FDA has statutory authority to regulate in vitro diagnostic products (IVDs) used for clinical purposes as medical devices, and to assure that such products are safe and effective for their intended uses, the FDA has historically exercised its enforcement discretion and not enforced applicable provisions of the FDCA and regulations with respect to laboratory developed tests (LDTs), which are a subset of IVDs that are intended for clinical use and designed, manufactured and used within a single laboratory. We believe our genetic laboratory tests fall within the definition of an LDT. As a result, we believe our tests are not currently subject to the FDA&#8217;s enforcement of its medical device regulations and the applicable FDCA provisions. Even though we commercialize our tests as LDTs, our tests may in the future become subject to more onerous regulation by the FDA. 

Foreign Regulation 

Health authorities in foreign countries regulate Cooper's clinical trials and medical device sales. The regulations vary widely from country to country. Even if the FDA has cleared or approved a product in the United States, the regulatory agencies in other countries must approve new products before they may be marketed there. The time required to obtain approval in another country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance or approval, and the requirements may differ. There is a trend towards harmonization of quality system standards among the European Union, United States, Canada and various other industrialized countries. Japan has one of the most rigorous regulatory systems in the world and requires in-country clinical trials. The Japanese quality and regulatory standards remain stringent even with the more recent harmonization efforts and updated Japanese regulations. China is also updating its regulations and is requiring rigorous in-country product testing. 

These regulatory procedures require a considerable investment in time and resources and usually result in a substantial delay between new product development and marketing. If the Company does not maintain compliance with regulatory standards or if problems occur after marketing, product approval may be withdrawn. 

In addition to FDA regulatory requirements, Cooper also maintains ISO 13485 certification and CE mark approvals for its products. A CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain standards and compliance with applicable European medical device requirements. These quality programs and approvals are required by the European Medical Device Directive and must be maintained for all products intended to be sold in the European market. The ISO 13485 Quality Measurement System registration is now also required for registration of products in Asia Pacific and Latin American countries. In order to maintain these quality benchmarks, the Company is subjected to rigorous biannual reassessment audits of its quality systems and procedures. 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Other Health Care Regulation 

We may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws, physician payment transparency laws, and laws pertaining to health information privacy and security. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs and TRICARE. Similarly if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be noncompliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. While we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, as applicable to us, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. 

In addition, the federal government, as part of the ACA, as well as certain state governments have enacted laws aimed at increasing transparency in relationships between medical device companies and health care professionals. We are now required by the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act and similar state and foreign laws to report annually many types of payments made and items of value provided to licensed health care professionals. Certain states also mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and tracking and/or require the reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions have adopted, or are currently acting to implement, similar laws. Failure to adhere to our policies, comply with required laws or implement adequate policies and practices to address changes to legal and regulatory requirements could result in sanctions such as fines, injunctions and civil penalties. 

The impact to our businesses of the ACA provisions related to coverage expansion, payment reforms and delivery system changes remains uncertain. The ACA imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax, with limited exceptions, on any entity that manufactures or imports Class I, II and III medical devices offered for sale in the United States that began on January 1, 2013. CooperVision's products are not subject to this tax because contact lenses are excluded from the tax. However, United States sales of CooperSurgical's products are subject to this tax which is recorded in selling, general and administrative expense on our Statement of Income. On December 18, 2015, President Obama signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 which imposed a two year moratorium of the device excise tax for device sales in calendar years 2016 and 2017. Absent further legislative action, the device excise tax will be reinstated on medical device sales starting January 1, 2018. 

RAW MATERIALS 

CooperVision's raw materials primarily consist of various chemicals and packaging materials and are generally available from more than one source. However, CooperVision relies on sole suppliers for certain raw materials used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products. If current raw material suppliers fail to supply sufficient materials on a timely basis, or at all for any reason, we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products. 

Raw materials used by CooperSurgical are generally available from more than one source. However, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice. 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION 

CooperVision markets our products through our own field sales representatives, who call on optometrists, ophthalmologists, opticians, optical chains and distributors. CooperVision also sells to distributors and to mass merchandisers who offer eye care services. To support the sale and use of CooperVision products, CooperVision engages in various activities and offers a variety of services. These include clinical training, digital marketing for the customer, e-commerce, telemarketing, social media, and journal advertisements. CooperVision recently launched tools that allow their customers to offer their patients monthly purchase and delivery subscriptions. In certain smaller countries, CooperVision often uses distributors and leverages our distributors' sales and marketing resources to attract major customers to CooperVision. 

CooperSurgical's products are marketed by a network of dedicated field sales representatives, independent agents and distributors. CooperSurgical augments its sales and marketing activities by participating in national and regional industry tradeshows, professional educational programs and internet promotions including e-commerce, social media and collaborative efforts with professional organizations, telemarketing, direct mail and advertising in professional journals. 

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS 

Cooper owns or licenses a variety of domestic and foreign patents, which, in total, are material to our overall business. The names of certain Cooper's products are protected by trademark registrations in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and, in some cases, also in foreign trademark offices. Applications are pending for additional trademark and patent registrations. Cooper intends to protect our intellectual property rights aggressively. 

No individual patent or license is material to the Company or either of our principal business units other than our license agreement effective as of November 19, 2007, between CooperVision and CIBA Vision AG and CIBA Vision Corporation, now part of the Novartis group of companies. This license relates to patents covering CooperVision's silicone hydrogel contact lens products. Our royalty obligations under this license agreement extend until the expiration of the applicable patent rights, which we believe occurred in September 2014 in the United States, and occurred for the most part in March 2016 outside of the United States. 

In addition to trademarks and patent licenses, we own certain trade secrets, copyrights, know-how and other intellectual property. 

DEPENDENCE ON CUSTOMERS 

One customer, a CooperVision contact lens distributor, accounted for approximately 11% &#32;of our consolidated net revenue in the fiscal year ended October 31, 2016 and was approximately 10% in the fiscal year ended October 31, 2014. No customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net revenue in the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015. See Note 13. Business Segment Information, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS 

Neither of our business units is materially subject to profit renegotiation or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the United States government. 

BACKLOG 

Backlog is not a material factor in either of Cooper's business units. 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

SEASONALITY 

CooperVision's contact lens sales in its fiscal first quarter, which runs from November 1 through January 31, are typically lower than subsequent quarters, as patient traffic to practitioners' offices is relatively light during the holiday season. 

COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS 

Federal, state and local provisions that regulate the discharge of materials into the environment, or relate to the protection of the environment, do not currently materially affect Cooper's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT BUSINESS SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES 

The information required by this item is included in "Business Segment Information" of our notes to consolidated financial statements and "Risk Factors" as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2016. 

EMPLOYEES 

On October 31, 2016 , Cooper had approximately 10,600 employees. We believe that relations with our employees are good. 

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE CERTIFICATION 

We submitted our 2016 annual Section 12(a) CEO certification with the New York Stock Exchange. The certification was not qualified in any respect. Additionally, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016, the CEO and CFO certifications required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

The Cooper Companies, Inc. Internet address is http://www.coopercos.com. The information on the Company's Website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on our Website as soon as reasonably practicable. The public may read and copy these materials at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20002. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a Website that contains such reports, proxy and information statements and other information whose Internet address is http://www.sec.gov. The Company's Corporate Governance Principles, Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and charters of each standing committee of the Board of Directors are also posted on the Company's Website. 

THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

