 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We are a global leader in high performance, high efficiency server technology and innovation. We develop and provide end-to-end green computing solutions to the cloud computing, data center, enterprise IT, big data, high performance computing, or HPC, and Internet of Things, or IoT,/ embedded markets. Our solutions range from complete server, storage, blade and workstations to full racks, networking devices, server management software and technology support and services. We offer our customers a high degree of flexibility and customization by providing what we believe to be the industry&#8217;s broadest array of server configurations from which they can choose the optimal solution which fits their computing needs. Our server systems, subsystems and accessories are architecturally designed to provide high levels of reliability, quality and scalability, thereby enabling our customers to benefit from improvements in compute performance, density, thermal management and power efficiency which lead to lower overall total cost of ownership. 

We perform the majority of our research and development efforts in-house, which increases the efficiency of communication and collaboration between design teams, streamlines the development process and reduces time-to-market. We have developed a set of design principles which allow us to aggregate individual industry standard components and materials to develop proprietary products, such as serverboards, chassis, power supplies, networking and storage devices. This building block approach allows us to provide a broad range of SKUs, and enables us to build and deliver application-optimized solutions based upon customers&#8217; requirements. As of June 30, 2016 , we offered over 4,950 &#32;SKUs, including SKUs for server and storage systems, serverboards, chassis, power supplies and other system accessories. 

We conduct our operations principally from our Silicon Valley headquarters in California and subsidiaries in Taiwan and the Netherlands. We sell our server systems and server subsystems and accessories through our direct sales force as well as through distributors, including value added resellers and system integrators, and OEMs. During fiscal year 2016 , our products were purchased by over 800 &#32;customers in 100 &#32;countries. We commenced operations in 1993 and have been profitable every year since inception. For fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , our net sales were $2,215.6 million , $1,991.2 million &#32;and $1,467.2 million , respectively, and our net income was $72.0 million , $101.9 million &#32;and $54.2 million , respectively. 

The Super Micro Solution 

We develop and manufacture high performance server solutions based upon an innovative, modular and open architecture. Our primary competitive advantages arise from how we use our integrated internal research and development organization coupled with our deep understanding of complex computing requirements to develop the intellectual property used in our server solutions. These competitive advantages have enabled us to develop a set of design principles and performance specifications that meet industry standard Server System Infrastructure, or SSI, requirements and also incorporate the advanced 

functionality and capabilities required by our customers. We believe that our approach provides us with greater flexibility to quickly and efficiently develop new server solutions that are optimized for our customers' specific application requirements. Our modular architectural approach has allowed us to offer our customers what we believe to be the industry&#8217;s largest array of server systems and subsystems and accessories with performance optimized for their unique applications. 

Flexible and Customizable Server Solutions 

We provide flexible and customizable server solutions to address the specific application needs of our customers. Our design principles allow us to aggregate industry standard components and materials to develop optimized server subsystems and accessories, such as serverboards, chassis and power supplies to deliver a broad range of products with superior features. We believe this building block approach allows us to provide a broad range of optimized solution SKUs. 

Rapid Time-to-Market 

We are able to reduce the design and development time required to incorporate the latest technologies into the next generation application optimized server solutions. Our in-house design competencies, control of the design of many of the components used within our server systems and our building block architecture enable us to rapidly develop, build and test server systems, subsystems and accessories with unique configurations. As a result, when new technologies are brought to market, we are generally able to quickly design, integrate and assemble solutions with little need to re-engineer other portions of our solution. Our efficient design capabilities allow us to offer our customers server solutions incorporating the latest technology with a better price-to-performance ratio. We work closely with the leading microprocessor vendors and other hardware and software suppliers to coordinate the design of our new products with their product release schedules, thereby enhancing our ability to rapidly introduce new products incorporating the latest technology. 

Improved Power Efficiency and Thermal Management 

We leverage advanced technology and system design expertise to reduce the power consumption of our server, blade, workstation and storage systems. We believe that we are an industry leader in power saving technology. Our server solutions include many design innovations to optimize power consumption and manage heat dissipation. We have designed flexible power management systems which customize or eliminate components in an effort to reduce overall power consumption. We have developed proprietary power supplies that can be integrated across a wide range of server system form factors which can significantly enhance power efficiency. We have also developed technologies that are specifically designed to reduce the effects of heat dissipation from our servers. Our thermal management technology allows our products to achieve a better price-to-performance ratio while minimizing energy costs and reducing the risk of server malfunction caused by overheating. We have also developed power management software that controls power consumption of server clusters by policy-based administration. 

High Density Servers 

Our servers are designed to enable customers to maximize computing power while minimizing the physical space utilized. We offer server systems with up to four times the density of conventional solutions, which allows our customers to efficiently deploy our server systems in scale-out configurations. Through our industry leading technology, we can offer significantly more memory, hard disk drive storage and expansion slots than traditional server systems with a comparable server form factor. For example, our FatTwin solutions contain eight or four full feature DP hot-pluggable compute nodes with NVMe support in a 4U server. The 8-node configuration provides high density and computing power for those compute-demanding applications, while the 4-node configuration offers up to 8 hot-pluggable 3.5" HDDs per U for those applications that require high storage capacity within a compact setting. This high density design is well suited for our customers that require highly space efficient solutions. 

Strategy 

Our objective is to be the leading provider of application optimized, high performance server, storage and networking solutions worldwide. Achieving this objective requires continuous development and innovation of our solutions with better price performance and architectural advantages compared with both our prior generation of solutions and the solutions of our competitors as well as solutions which expand the breadth of our coverage of data center needs. We believe that many of these product innovations are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year revenue growth across these next-generation products. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to maintain our relative competitive position in many of our product areas and improve our competitive position in others while providing us with several long-term growth opportunities. Key elements of our strategy include: 

Maintain Our Time-to-Market Advantage 

We believe one of our major competitive advantages is our ability to rapidly incorporate the latest computing innovations into our products. We intend to maintain our time-to-market advantage by continuing our investment in our research and development efforts to rapidly develop new proprietary server, storage and networking solutions based on industry standard components. We plan to continue to work closely with technology partners such as Intel Coporation ("Intel"), Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD") and Nvidia Corporation ("Nvidia"), among others, to develop products that are compatible with the latest generation of industry standard technologies. We believe these efforts will allow us to continue to offer products that lead in price for performance as each generation of computing innovations becomes available. 

Expand Our Product Offerings 

We plan to increase the number of products in server, storage and networking solutions that we offer to our customers. We plan to continue to improve the energy efficiency of our products by enhancing our ability to deliver improved power and thermal management capabilities, as well as servers and subsystems and accessories that can operate in increasingly dense environments. 

Enhance Our Software Management Solutions 

We have introduced and also plan to continue developing additional server, storage and networking management software capabilities as well as partner with certain software suppliers for software solutions that are integrated with our server products to enable our customers to simplify and automate the deployment, configuration and monitoring of our servers. 

Expand Our Service &#38; Support Offerings 

We intend to continue to expand our customer service and support offerings and enable our customers to purchase service and support together with our complete server systems as total solution packages around the world. Our service and support is designed to help our customers improve uptime, reduce costs and enhance the productivity of their investment in our products. We believe that continued enhancement of these offerings will support the continued growth of our business and increase our penetration with enterprise customers. 

Further Optimize Our Global Operating Structure 

We plan to continue to increase our overseas manufacturing capacity and logistics capabilities in the Netherlands and Taiwan and continue our effort toward optimizing the efficiency of our global tax structure by expanding our reach geographically in order to more efficiently serve our customers and lower our manufacturing and tax costs. 

Deepen Our Relationships with Suppliers and Manufacturers 

&#160; 

Our efficient supply chain and combined internal and outsourced manufacturing allow us to build systems to order that are customized, while minimizing costs. We plan to continue leveraging our relationships with suppliers and contract manufacturers in order to maintain and improve our cost structure as we benefit from economies of scale. We intend to continue to source non-core products from external suppliers. We also believe that as our solutions continue to gain greater market acceptance, we will generate growing and recurring business for our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We believe this increased volume will enable us to receive better pricing. We believe that a highly disciplined approach to cost control is critical to success in our industry. For example, we continue to maintain our warehousing capacity in Asia through our relationship with Ablecom Technology, Inc. ("Ablecom"), one of our major contract manufacturers and a related party, so that we continue to deliver products to our customers in Asia and elsewhere more quickly and in higher volumes. 

Products 

We offer a broad range of application optimized server solutions, including storage, rackmount and blade server systems and subsystems and accessories which customers can use to build complete server systems. 

Server Systems 

We sell server systems in rackmount, standalone tower, blade, Twin and multi-node form factors. As of June 30, 2016 , we offered over 1,200 &#32;different server systems. A summary of some of our server systems are listed below: 

&#160; 

Our GPU/Xeon Phi optimized server systems in 1U, 2U, 4U, 7U and blade platforms achieve higher parallel processing capability with Intel's Many Integrated Core, or MIC, architecture based on Xeon Phi and are designed to provide high performance in calculation intensive applications. 

Our IoT/embedded server systems are compact, smart, and secure products that reside on the edge of the network, connecting smart sensors and devices to the cloud over wireless or local networks (ex. LAN, WiFi, 3G, Zigbee and RF). These server systems are built on open architecture to ensure interoperability between systems, for ease of services deployment, and enable a broad ecosystem of solution providers. The IoT/embedded server systems enable users to securely aggregate, share, and filter data for analysis. These server systems help ensure that data generated by devices can travel securely and safely from the edge to the cloud and back - without replacing existing infrastructure. 

Our MicroCloud server systems are high density, multi-node UP servers with up to 24 hot-pluggable nodes in a compact 3U form factor. MicroCloud integrates advanced technologies within a compact functional design to deliver high performance in environments with space and power limitations. These combined features provide a cost-effective solution for IT professionals implementing new hosting architectures for SMB and Public/Private Cloud Computing applications. 

Our SuperBlades and MicroBlades are designed to share a common computing infrastructure, thereby saving additional space and power. We believe that our SuperBlade and MicroBlade server systems provide industry leading density, memory expandability, reliability, price-to-performance per square foot and energy saving server solutions for dedicated hosting, web front end, cloud computing services, content delivery and social networking. 

Our SuperStorage solutions in 2U, 3U and 4U platforms provide high density storage solutions while leveraging high efficiency power to maximize performance-per watt savings to reduce total cost of ownership, or TCO, for enterprise Data Centers, Big Data and other high performance applications. For example, we introduced over 50 new All-Flash NVME systems that deliver better performance and efficiency than traditional storage solutions, and our Simply Double SuperStorage systems that include twice the number of hot-swap bays as 2U industry standard systems, offer up to twice the storage capacity and IOPs in the same amount of space. 

Our Twin architecture series of server systems including 1U and 2U Twin, 2U Twin&#178;, 1U and 2U TwinPro and 4U FatTwin are optimized for density, performance and efficiency for customers' storage, HPC and cloud computing requirements. 

&#160; 

Our Ultra Server systems in 1U and 2U platforms are designed to deliver performance, flexibility, scalability, and serviceability that are ideal for demanding enterprise workloads. They allow enterprise IT professionals the ability to easily qualify a single server platform that can easily be reconfigured for varieties of applications, to reduce qualification time and to manage the need for excessive spares inventories. 

Our Data Center Optimized (DCO) server systems deliver superior performance-per-watt to optimize data center TCO with an improved thermal architecture utilizing power efficient components and offset processors to help eliminate CPU preheating and support a 5+ year product life cycle. 

Our internally developed switch products 1G/10G/40G/100G Ethernet, InfiniBand and Omni Path switches for rack-mount servers not only help us to offer more complete solutions for our customers, but also generate additional revenues. 

Our SuperRack server solutions offer a wide range of flexible accessory options including front, rear and side expansion units to provide modular solutions for system configuration. Data center, HPC computing and server farm customers can use us as a one-stop shop for all of their IT hardware needs. Our SuperRack offers easy installation and rear access with no obstructions for hot-swap devices, user-friendly cabling and cable identification, and effortless integration of our high density server, storage and blade systems. 

&#160; 

Server Software Management Solutions 

Our remote system management solutions, such as our Server Management suite, or SSM, including Supermicro Power Management software, or SPM, Supermicro Command Manager, or SCM, Supermicro Update Manager, or SUM, and SuperDoctor 5, or SD5, have been designed for server farm or data centers' system administration and management. These remote management software utilities provide the ability to manage large-scale servers and storage in an organization&#8217;s IT infrastructure. SPM is designed specifically for HPC/Data Center cluster deployment and management. We have also partnered with certain software suppliers for software solutions that are integrated with our server systems. 

Server Subsystems and Accessories 

We believe we offer the largest array of modular server subsystems and accessories or building blocks in the industry that are sold off-the-shelf or built-to-order. These components are the foundation of our server solutions and span product offerings from the entry-level single and dual processor server segment to the high-end multi-processor market. The majority of the subsystems and accessories we sell individually are optimized to work together and are ultimately integrated into complete server systems. 

Serverboards 

We design our serverboards with the latest chipset, networking technologies and infrastructure software. Each serverboard is designed and optimized to adhere to specific physical, electrical and design requirements in order to work with certain combinations of chassis and power supplies and achieve maximum functionality. For our rackmount server systems, we not only adhere to SSI specifications, but our customized specifications provide an advanced set of features that increase the functionality and flexibility of our products. As of June 30, 2016 , we offered more than 600 &#32;SKUs for serverboards. 

&#160; Chassis and Power Supplies 

Our chassis are designed to efficiently house our servers while maintaining interoperability, adhering to industry standards and increasing output efficiency through power supply design. We believe that our latest generation of power supplies achieves the maximum power efficiency available in the industry. Our power design technology reduces power consumption by increasing power efficiency to greater than 96%, which we believe is among the most efficient available in the industry. Our server chassis come with hot-plug, heavy-duty fans, fan speed control and an advanced air shroud design to maximize airflow redundancy. Our Powerstick design provides the slim form factor of a redundant power supply that increases system computing and storage density across our multiple product lines. As of June 30, 2016 , we offered more than 550 &#32;SKUs for chassis and power supplies. 

&#160; 

Other System Accessories 

As part of our server component offerings, we also offer other system accessories that our customers may require or that we use to build our server solutions. These other products include, among others, microprocessors, memory and disk drives that generally are third party developed and manufactured products that we resell without modification. As of June 30, 2016 , we offered more than 2,600 &#32;SKUs for other system accessories. 

Supermicro Global Services 

The Supermicro Global Services is comprised of customer support services and hardware enhanced services. Our customer support organization provides ongoing maintenance and technical support for our products through our website and 24-hour continuous direct phone based support. Our hardware enhanced services organization provides help desk services and product on-site support for our server systems. Both customer support services and hardware enhanced services develop and implement services solutions for our direct and OEM customers as well as our distributors. Service is provided to our customers directly or through approved distributors and third-party partners. 

Support Services: Our customer support services offer market competitive warranties, generally from one (1) to three (3) years, and warranty upgrade options for products sold by our direct sales team and approved distributors. 

Hardware Enhanced Services: Our strategic direct and OEM customers may purchase a variety of on-site support service plans. We offer several levels of on-site support that vary depending on specific services, response times, coverage hours and duration, repair priority levels, spare parts requirements, logistics, data privacy and security needs. Our services include server system integration, configuration and software upgrades and updates. We also perform the planning, identify service requirements, create and execute the project plan, conduct verification testing, training and provide technical documentation. 

Research and Development 

&#160; 

Our products incorporate over 23 years of research and development experience. We perform the majority of our research and development efforts in-house, increasing the communication and collaboration between design teams to streamline the development process and reducing time-to-market. We continue to invest in reducing our design and manufacturing costs and improving the performance, cost effectiveness and thermal and space efficiency of our solutions. 

Over the years, our research and development team has focused on the development of new and enhanced products that can support emerging protocols while continuing to accommodate legacy technologies. Much of our research and development activity is focused on the new product cycles of leading processor vendors. We work closely with Intel, AMD and NVIDIA among others, to develop products that are compatible with the latest generation of industry standard technologies under development. Our collaborative approach with the processor vendors allows us to coordinate the design of our new products with their product release schedules, thereby enhancing our ability to rapidly introduce new products incorporating the latest technology. We work closely with their respective development teams to optimize system performance and reduce system level issues. Similarly, we work very closely with our customers to identify their needs and develop our new product plans accordingly. 

We believe that the combination of our focus on internal research and development activities, our close working relationships with customers and vendors and our modular design approach allow us to minimize time-to-market. Our latest introductions include our Simply Double storage portfolio of 2U 24 3.5" and 2U 48 2.5" drive servers. Ultra server design in 1U and 2U configurations, supporting up to 44 cores and 160W CPUs, 3TB of DDR4 memory in 24 DIMMs, 24 NVMe and 8 PCI-e 3.0 can be optimized for varieties of applications. MicroBlade design, a powerful and flexible extreme-density 3U/6U all-in-one total system, features 14/28 hot-swappable MicroBlade Modules supporting 112 ultra-low power Atom, or 56 UP or 28 DP Xeon processors with up to 4HDDs/SSDs. This architecture is an optimized, unified microserver, networking, storage, and remote management for cloud computing, dedicated hosting, web front end, content delivery and social networking applications. 

As of June 30, 2016 , we had 1,086 &#32;employees and 7 &#32;engineering consultants dedicated to research and development. Our total research and development expenses were $124.0 million , $100.3 million , and $84.3 million &#32;for fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Customers 

For fiscal year 2016 , our products were purchased by over 800 &#32;customers, most of which are distributors, in 100 &#32;countries. In fiscal years 2016 &#32;and 2015 , sales to SoftLayer, a division of IBM Corporation, represented 10.9% &#32;and 10.1%, respectively, of our total net sales. No customer represented greater than 10% of our total net sales for fiscal year 2014 . 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales and marketing program is focused on a combination of our direct sales force and indirect sales channels. As of June 30, 2016 , our sales and marketing organization consisted of 311 &#32;employees and 37 &#32;independent sales representatives in 18 &#32;locations worldwide. 

We work with distributors, including resellers and system integrators, and OEMs to market and sell customized solutions to their end customers. We provide sales and marketing assistance and training to our distributors and OEMs, who in turn provide service and support to end customers. We intend to leverage our relationships with key distributors and OEMs to penetrate select industry segments where our products can provide a superior alternative to existing solutions. For a group of customers who do not normally purchase through distributors or OEMs, we have a direct sales approach. 

We maintain close contact with our distributors and end customers. We often collaborate during the sales process with our distributors and the customer&#8217;s technical point of contact to help determine the optimal system configuration for the customer&#8217;s needs. Our interaction with distributors and end customers allows us to monitor customer requirements and develop new products to better meet end customer needs. 

International Sales 

Product fulfillment and first level support for our international customers are provided by our distributors, OEMs and Supermicro Global Services. Our international sales efforts are supported both by our international offices in the Netherlands, Taiwan, China and Japan as well as by our United States sales organization. Sales to customers located outside of the United States represented 36.9% , 41.7% &#32;and 44.8% &#32;of net sales in fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. Our long-lived assets located outside of the United States represented 24.0% , 23.8% &#32;and 27.9% &#32;of total long-lived assets in fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. See Note 14 of Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a summary of international sales and long-lived assets. 

Marketing 

Our marketing programs are designed to inform existing and potential customers, the trade press, distributors and OEMs about the capabilities and benefits of using our products and solutions. Our marketing efforts support the sale and distribution of our products through direct sales and distribution channels. We rely on a variety of marketing vehicles, including advertising, public relations, web, social media, participation in industry trade shows and conferences to help gain market acceptance. We provide funds for cooperative marketing to our distributors. We also work closely with cooperative marketing programs, and benefit from market development funds, that our distributors and suppliers make available. 

Intellectual Property 

We seek to protect our intellectual property rights with a combination of patents, trademark, copyright, trade secret laws and disclosure restrictions. We rely primarily on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our design and product development activities. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to our designs, documentation and other proprietary information. 

Manufacturing and Quality Control 

We use several third party suppliers and contract manufacturers for materials and sub-assemblies, such as serverboards, chassis, disk drives, power supplies, fans and computer processors. We believe that selectively using outsourced manufacturing services allows us to focus on our core competencies in product design and development and increases our operational flexibility. We believe our manufacturing strategy allows us to adjust manufacturing capacity in response to changes in customer demand and to rapidly introduce new products to the market. We use Ablecom for contract design and manufacturing coordination support. We work with Ablecom to optimize modular designs for our chassis and certain of our other components. Ablecom coordinates the manufacturing of chassis for us. In addition to providing a larger volume of contract manufacturing services for us, Ablecom continues to warehouse for us a number of components and subassemblies manufactured by multiple suppliers prior to shipment to our facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia. 

Assembly, test and quality control of our servers are performed at our manufacturing facilities in San Jose, California, the Netherlands and Taiwan. Each of our facilities has been certified by Quality / Environmental Management System or, Q/EMS, according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards. Our suppliers and contract manufacturers are required to support the same standards in order to maintain consistent product and service quality and continuous improvement of quality and environmental performances. 

We seek to maintain sufficient inventory such that most of the orders we receive can be filled within 14 days. We monitor our inventory on a continuous basis in order to be able to meet customer orders and to avoid inventory obsolescence. Due to our modular designs, our inventory can generally be used with multiple different products, further reducing the risk of inventory write-downs. 

Competition 

The market for our products is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to new technological developments, changing customer needs and new product introductions. In particular, in recent years the market has been subject to substantial change. We compete primarily with large vendors of X86 general purpose servers and components. In addition, we also compete with a number of smaller vendors who specialize in the sale of server components and systems. Over the last couple of years, we have experienced increased competition from Original Design Manufacturers, or ODMs, who benefit from very low cost manufacturing and are increasingly offering their own branded products. We believe our principal competitors include: 

&#8226; 

Global technology vendors such as Dell Inc., Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, Lenovo, and Cisco; 

&#8226; 

Original Design Manufacturers, or ODMs, such as Quanta Computer, Inc. 

The principal competitive factors in our market include the following: 

&#8226; 

first to market with new emerging technologies; 

&#8226; 

flexible and customizable products to fit customers&#8217; objectives; 

&#8226; 

high product performance, efficiency and reliability; 

&#8226; 

early identification of emerging opportunities; 

&#8226; 

cost-effectiveness; 

&#8226; 

interoperability of products; 

&#8226; 

scalability; and 

&#8226; 

localized and responsive customer support on a worldwide basis. 

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to most of these factors. However, most of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and greater name recognition. They may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can, which could allow them to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in customer needs. 

Employees 

As of June 30, 2016 , we employed 2,655 &#32;full time employees and 44 &#32;consultants, consisting of 1,086 &#32;employees in research and development, 311 &#32;employees in sales and marketing, 251 &#32;employees in general and administrative and 1,007 &#32;employees in manufacturing. Of these employees, 1,780 &#32;employees are based in our Silicon Valley facilities. We consider our highly qualified and motivated employees to be a key factor in our business success. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining organization and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in California in September 1993. We reincorporated in Delaware in March 2007. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "SMCI." Our principal executive offices are located at 980 Rock Avenue, San Jose, CA 95131 and our telephone number is (408) 503-8000. Our website address is www.supermicro.com. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available free of charge, on or through our website at www.supermicro.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission or the SEC. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or made part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with or reports furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings. The address of the site is www.sec.gov. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

&#160; 

