 Item 1. Business. 

a) History 

United States Basketball League (&ldquo;USBL&rdquo;, &ldquo;we&rdquo; or the &ldquo;Company&rdquo;) was incorporated in Delaware in May, 1984 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Meisenheimer Capital, Inc. (&ldquo;MCI&rdquo;). MCI is a publicly owned company having made a registered public offering of its common stock in 1984. Since 1984, MCI has been under the control of the Meisenheimer family. Members of the Meisenheimer family also have a controlling interest in Spectrum Associates, Inc. (&ldquo;Spectrum&rdquo;), a company engaged in the manufacture of helicopter parts. From time to time, Spectrum has loaned money to us and has engaged in other revenue generating transactions with us.

b) Operations 

We were incorporated by MCI for the purpose of developing and managing a professional basketball league, the United States Basketball League (the &ldquo;League&rdquo;). The League was originally conceived to provide a vehicle for college graduates interested in going professional with an opportunity to improve their skills and to showcase their skills in a professional environment. This approach afforded the players an opportunity to perhaps be selected by one of the teams comprising the National Basketball Association (&ldquo;NBA&rdquo;) and to attend summer camp sponsored by that team. USBL&rsquo;s season (April through June of each year) was specifically designed to afford our League players the chance to participate in the various summer camps run by the teams in the NBA, which summer camps normally start in August each year. Since 1984 and up to the present time there have been approximately 150 players from our League who also have been selected to play for teams in the NBA. A sizable number of our players were eventually selected to play in NBA all star games. Additionally, a total of approximately 75 players were previously selected to play in the Continental Basketball Association (&ldquo;CBA&rdquo;) and the National Basketball Development League (the &ldquo;NBDL&rdquo;), the official developmental league of the NBA.

Since the inception of our League, we have been primarily engaged in selling franchises and managing the League. From 1985 and up to the present time, we have sold a total of approximately 40 active franchises (teams), a vast majority of which were terminated for non- payment of their respective franchise obligations. All seasons since 2008 have been canceled. At the present time we do not have any definitive plans as to the scheduling of a new season.

We are currently in the process of exploring certain strategic alternatives, including the possible sale of the League.

c) Employees 

We currently have one part-time employee. This employee is currently engaged primarily to respond to inquiries for information from potential strategic parties.

