 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

The Company 

Boston Scientific Corporation is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices that are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. Our mission is to transform lives through innovative medical solutions that improve the health of patients around the world. When used in this report, the terms &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; and &#8220;the Company&#8221; mean Boston Scientific Corporation and its divisions and subsidiaries. 

Our history began in the late 1960s when our co-founder, John Abele, acquired an equity interest in Medi-tech, Inc., a research and development company focused on developing alternatives to surgery. In 1969, Medi-tech introduced a family of steerable catheters used in some of the first less-invasive procedures performed. In 1979, John Abele joined with Pete Nicholas to form Boston Scientific Corporation, which indirectly acquired Medi-tech. This acquisition began a period of active and focused new product development innovation, market development and organizational growth. Since then, we have advanced the practice of less-invasive medicine by helping physicians and other medical professionals diagnose and treat a wide range of diseases and medical conditions and improve patients&#8217; quality of life by providing alternatives to surgery and other medical procedures that are typically traumatic to the body. 

Our net sales have increased substantially since our formation. Our growth has been fueled in part by strategic acquisitions designed to improve our ability to take advantage of growth opportunities in the medical device industry. Our strategic acquisitions have helped us to add promising new technologies to our pipeline and to offer one of the broadest product portfolios in the world for use in less-invasive procedures. We believe that the depth and breadth of our product portfolio has also enabled us to compete more effectively in the current healthcare environment that seeks to improve outcomes and lower costs. Our category leadership also enables us to compete in a changing contracting landscape and position our products with managed care, large buying groups, governments, and consolidation among hospitals, while also expanding internationally and managing the complexities of the global healthcare market. 

Business Strategy 

The following are our five strategic imperatives: 

&#8226; 

Strengthen Execution to Grow Share 

We believe that our success is driven by our ability to consistently deliver initiatives that grow profitability and market share. We focus on improving the speed and performance of our business units by adding new capabilities, processes, and innovative technologies. 

&#8226; 

Expand into High Growth Adjacencies 

We seek to diversify our product portfolio by aligning our research and development spend and our business development investment toward higher growth markets and business opportunities. We focus on executing on our committed growth adjacencies while increasing our access to developing technologies and solutions. Through this diversification we expect to increase our opportunity for growth in areas that complement our core businesses. 

&#8226; 

Drive Global Expansion 

By expanding our global commercial presence, we seek to increase revenue and market share, and strengthen our relationships with leading physicians and their clinical research programs. We focus on expanding our presence and existing capabilities in emerging markets and building new capabilities and innovative commercial models in countries whose economies and healthcare sectors are growing rapidly. 

&#8226; 

Fund the Journey to Fuel Growth 

We are driving continuous improvement and cost reduction initiatives to expand our profitability, and we are re-allocating spending to support our growth initiatives. 

&#32;3 

&#8226; 

Develop Key Capabilities 

We are developing key capabilities that address the needs of the marketplace. We are globally focused on building a culture of innovation, collaboration, caring and high performance, while enhancing diversity. 

We believe that our execution of these strategic imperatives will drive innovation, accelerate profitable revenue growth and increase stockholder value. 

Products 

During 2015 , our products were offered for sale by seven core businesses - Interventional Cardiology, Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM), Endoscopy, Peripheral Interventions (PI), Urology and Pelvic Health, Neuromodulation, and Electrophysiology (EP). In August 2015, we completed the acquisition of the American Medical Systems male urology portfolio (AMS Portfolio Acquisition), which includes the men's health and prostate health businesses, from Endo International plc. The AMS male urology portfolio is being integrated with our formerly named Urology and Women's Health business, and the joint businesses have become Urology and Pelvic Health. In addition, we entered into certain supply and distribution agreements with Stryker Corporation (Stryker) in connection with our sale of our Neurovascular business in 2011. We substantially completed these agreements in 2013. 

During 2015 , we derived 27 percent &#32;of our sales from our Interventional Cardiology business, 24 percent &#32;of our sales from our CRM business, 18 percent &#32;of our sales from our Endoscopy business, 12 percent &#32;of our sales from our PI business, nine percent &#32;of our sales from our Urology and Pelvic Health business, seven percent &#32;of our sales from our Neuromodulation business, and three percent &#32;of our sales from our EP business. 

The following section describes certain of our product offerings. In addition, see Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report for further information on our core businesses and products. 

Cardiovascular 

Interventional Cardiology 

Drug-Eluting Coronary Stent Systems 

Our broad, innovative product offerings have enabled us to become a leader in the interventional cardiology market. This leadership is due in large part to our drug-eluting coronary stent product offerings. Coronary stents are tiny, mesh tubes used in the treatment of coronary artery disease, which are implanted in patients to prop open arteries and facilitate blood flow to and from the heart. We believe we have further enhanced the outcomes associated with the use of coronary stents, particularly the processes that lead to restenosis (the growth of neointimal tissue within an artery after angioplasty and stenting), through product development and scientific research of drug-eluting stent systems. 

We market the SYNERGY&#8482; Everolimus-Eluting Platinum Chromium Coronary Stent System featuring an ultra-thin abluminal (outer) bioabsorbable polymer coating. The SYNERGY Stent is unique in that both its proprietary polymer and everolimus drug coating dissipate by three months. This innovation has the potential to improve post-implant vessel healing and will eliminate long-term polymer exposure, which is a possible cause of late adverse events. In addition, we market the Promus PREMIER&#8482;, Promus&#174; Element&#8482; and Promus&#174; Element&#8482; Plus everolimus-eluting stents. 

Core Coronary Technology 

We market a broad line of products used to treat patients with atherosclerosis, a principal cause of coronary artery obstructive disease, which is characterized by a thickening of the walls of the coronary arteries and a narrowing of arterial openings caused by the progressive development of deposits of plaque. Our product offerings include balloon catheters, rotational atherectomy systems, guide wires, guide catheters, embolic protection devices, crossing and re-entry devices for the treatment of chronically occluded coronary vessels and diagnostic catheters used in percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) procedures. 

Intravascular Imaging Systems 

We market a family of intravascular catheter-directed ultrasound imaging catheters and systems for use in coronary arteries and heart chambers as well as certain peripheral vessels. Our latest Intravascular Ultrasound Imaging catheter, OptiCross&#8482;, has been launched in all major markets worldwide. The iLab&#174; Ultrasound Imaging System continues as our flagship console and is compatible with our full line of imaging catheters. In addition, our new Polaris &#174; &#32;software designed to run on the iLab System has 

&#32;4 

been approved and launched in the United States (U.S.) and Europe and has been approved in Japan with launch expected in 2016. The iLab System is designed to enhance the diagnosis and treatment of blocked vessels and heart disorders. Further, these systems have been placed in cardiology labs worldwide, which provide an installed base through which we expect to launch new products, including an integrated Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) device for which we have received CE mark and FDA approval and are launching in early 2016. 

Structural Heart Therapies 

Structural heart therapy is one of the fastest growing segments of the medical technology market and is highly synergistic within our Interventional Cardiology business and with our Rhythm Management business. Through the acquisition of Sadra Medical, Inc. (Sadra) in January 2011, we have developed a fully repositionable and retrievable device, the Lotus&#8482; Valve System, for transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) to treat patients with severe aortic stenosis. Lotus employs a unique Adaptive Seal&#8482; feature designed to minimize the incidence of paravalvular regurgitation, a predictor of mortality. The Lotus Valve System is CE-marked in the European Union (EU) and in the U.S., it is an investigational device and not available for sale. At the end of 2015, we completed enrollment in our REPRISE III clinical trial and expect FDA approval of the Lotus Valve System in late 2017. We currently have three valve sizes CE marked: 23, 25 and 27mm, and we are developing 21 and 29mm size valves to complete our size matrix. In 2016, we expect to launch our next generation catheter and sheath, Lotus Edge&#8482;, in Europe. The benefits of Lotus Edge include a more flexible delivery system, 14 French sheath compatibility and a more simple deployment process. Through the acquisition of Atritech, Inc. (Atritech) in March 2011, we have developed a novel device, the Watchman&#8482; Left Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) Device, designed to close the left atrial appendage in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) who are at risk for ischemic stroke. Watchman has been commercially available internationally since 2009 and is the leading device in percutaneous LAAC globally. In March of 2015, Watchman received FDA approval to treat patients who are at an elevated risk of stroke, deemed suitable for warfarin, and have appropriate rationale to seek a non-pharmacologic alternative to warfarin. We believe that Watchman will be the only LAAC technology commercially available in the U.S. for multiple years, and in November 2015, we received CE Mark for our next generation device, Watchman FLX&#8482;. Watchman FLX is expected to become more widely available to approved EU countries in the first half of 2016. Watchman FLX has a closed distal end, can be fully recaptured and repositioned multiple times and has an expanded LAA treatment range. 

Peripheral Interventions 

We sell various products designed to treat patients with peripheral disease (disease which appears in blood vessels other than in the heart and in the biliary tree), including a broad line of medical devices used in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and peripheral vascular stenting. Our peripheral product offerings include stents, balloon catheters, wires, peripheral embolization devices and vena cava filters. Our peripheral angioplasty balloon technology includes our next-generation Mustang&#8482; PTA balloon; our Coyote&#8482; balloon catheter, a highly deliverable and ultra-low profile balloon dilatation catheter designed for a wide range of peripheral angioplasty procedures; and our Charger&#8482; PTA Balloon Catheter, a 0.035&#8221; percutaneous transluminal angioplasty balloon catheter designed for post-stent dilatation as well as conventional balloon angioplasty to open blocked peripheral arteries. With our Coyote, Mustang and Charger devices, we offer balloons across all size platforms. Our peripheral stent technology includes our EPIC&#8482; self-expanding nitinol stent system, our Carotid WALLSTENT&#174; stent system, and our Innova&#8482; self-expanding stent system. In addition, we market our 0.035" Rubicon TM &#32;Support Catheter in both the U.S. and Europe. We are currently conducting a study designed to evaluate the safety and performance of the self-expanding Innova&#8482; drug-eluting stent system, designed to treat Superficial Femoral Artery (SFA) lesions, along with an additional study on our Eluvia&#8482; Drug-Eluting Vascular Stent System, which recently received CE Mark and is designed to treat patients with narrowing or blockages in the SFA or proximal popliteal artery (PPA), a result of peripheral artery disease (PAD). 

In August 2014, we acquired the Interventional Division of Bayer AG (Bayer). The addition of Bayer's strong commercial organization and innovative technologies supports our strategy to provide a comprehensive portfolio of leading solutions to treat peripheral vascular disease. The transaction included the leading AngioJet&#174; Thrombectomy System and the Fetch&#174; 2 Aspiration Catheter, which are used in endovascular procedures to remove blood clots from blocked arteries and veins, and the JetStream&#174; Atherectomy System, used in an innovative and fast-growing therapy to remove plaque and thrombi from diseased arteries. We have since launched the AngioJet&#8482; ZelanteDVT&#8482; Thrombectomy Catheter to treat deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in large-diameter upper and lower limb peripheral veins, in the U.S. and Europe. 

We also sell products designed to treat patients with non-vascular disease (disease that appears outside the blood system). Our non-vascular suite of products includes biliary stents, drainage catheters and micro-puncture sets designed to treat, diagnose and ease various forms of benign and malignant tumors. We market our Direxion TM &#32;torqueable microcatheter in both the U.S. and Europe. In addition, we continue to market our extensive line of interventional oncology product solutions, including the recently launched Renegade&#174; HI-FLO&#8482; Fathom&#174; microcatheter and guidewire system and Interlock&#8482; - 35 Fibered IDC&#8482; and 18 Fibered IDC&#8482; Occlusion System for peripheral embolization. 

&#32;5 

On December 31, 2015, we acquired the interventional radiology portfolio of CeloNova Biosciences (CeloNova). The acquisition includes drug-eluting microspheres designed to be loaded with chemotherapy drugs for delivery to cancerous tumors, and spherical embolic products used to treat uterine fibroids and other conditions. We believe the CeloNova team and technologies will help advance our position and growth profile within the interventional oncology market. &#32; 

Rhythm Management 

Cardiac Rhythm Management 

We develop, manufacture and market a variety of implantable devices that monitor the heart and deliver electricity to treat cardiac abnormalities, including: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) systems used to detect and treat abnormally fast heart rhythms (tachycardia) that could result in sudden cardiac death, including the world's only commercially available subcutaneous implantable cardiac defibrillators (S-ICD), along with implantable transvenous cardiac defibrillators and implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator (CRT-D) systems used to treat heart failure; and 

&#8226; 

Implantable pacemaker systems used to manage slow or irregular heart rhythms (bradycardia), including implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemaker (CRT-P) systems used to treat heart failure. 

&#160; 

In addition, in most geographies, our implantable device systems include our remote LATITUDE&#174; Patient Management System, which enables physicians to monitor device performance remotely, allowing for more frequent monitoring in order to guide treatment decisions. 

We market several lines of ICD&#8217;s, including our DYNAGEN&#8482; EL , DYNAGEN&#8482; MINI, INOGEN&#8482; EL and INOGEN&#8482; MINI. MINI is the world&#8217;s smallest, thinnest ICD and EL (extended longevity) is the world&#8217;s longest lasting ICD due to our proprietary EnduraLife&#8482; battery technology. In addition, we offer our EMBLEM&#8482; S-ICD system, which affords physicians the ability to treat patients who are at risk for sudden cardiac arrest without touching the heart or invading the vasculature. Our EMBLEM&#8482; S-ICD system offers greater longevity, LATITUDE&#174; Patient Management remote monitoring technology and smaller size as compared to the prior generation. We also offer several lines of CRT-D systems, including our X4 line of quadripolar systems; and, in Europe and select international markets, we offer a suite of ACUITY&#8482; X4 quadripolar LV leads and the ACUITY&#8482; PRO lead delivery system. We initiated the full launch of our X4 quadripolar CRT-D systems in Japan and Australia in the first quarter of 2015. Additionally, we completed U.S. Phase I enrollment in our Acuity X4 quadripolar LV lead clinical trial in the fourth quarter of 2014, and we received FDA approval of this lead in February 2016. 

We market our ACCOLADE&#8482; family of pacemaker systems in the U.S., Europe, and Japan. Approval of our ACCOLADE&#8482; pacemaker family in Europe and Japan also includes approval for use of these products in patients undergoing magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. We expect FDA approval of our ACCOLADE&#8482; MRI-compatible pacemaker in the first half of 2016 and FDA approval of our EMBLEM MRI-compatible system in the second half of 2016. Our cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemaker product offerings include our newest generation VISIONIST&#8482; and VALITUDE X4 quadripolar CRT-P devices, which are built on the same platform as our high voltage cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator, are enabled for remote patient monitoring, and include features that promote ease of use. 

Electrophysiology 

Within our Electrophysiology business, we develop less-invasive medical technologies used in the diagnosis and treatment of rate and rhythm disorders of the heart. Included in our product offerings are steerable radio frequency (RF) ablation catheters, intracardiac ultrasound catheters, diagnostic catheters, delivery sheaths, and other accessories. Our products include the Blazer&#174; line of temperature ablation catheters, designed to deliver enhanced performance and responsiveness. Our cooled ablation portfolio includes our closed-loop irrigated catheter, the Chilli II&#174; cooled ablation catheter, and CE Mark approved Blazer&#8482; Open-Irrigated and IntellaNav&#8482; open-irrigated ablation catheters with a unique Total Tip Cooling&#8482; Design. Our comprehensive diagnostic catheter portfolio includes Blazer Dx-20&#8482;, Dynamic Tip&#8482; and Viking&#8482; catheters. We also market the IntellaTip MiFi TM &#32;XP catheter, with MicroFidelity (MiFi) sensor technology, a line of high-resolution ablation catheters for treatment of atrial flutter. We have a full offering of capital equipment, including our LabSystem PRO&#8482; Recording System, the Rhythmia Mapping System, Maestro RF generators, and the MetriQ pump (CE Mark approved). In 2015, the Rhythmia&#8482; Mapping System and IntellaMap Orion TM Mapping Catheter entered full global commercialization, bringing to market a next generation system capable of high-density high-resolution mapping to improve procedure efficacy. 

&#32;6 

MedSurg 

Endoscopy 

Gastroenterology and Pulmonary 

We are dedicated to transforming the lives of patients by advancing the diagnosis and treatment of a broad range of pulmonary and gastrointestinal conditions with less invasive technologies. Common gastrointestinal (GI) disease states include esophageal disorders, GI strictures and bleeding, biliary disease and conditions, as well as esophageal, biliary, pancreatic and colon cancer. Some of our product offerings include: 

&#8226; 

Our SpyGlass&#8482; System, which is the first and only single-operator cholangioscopy system that offers clinicians direct visualization of the pancreatico-biliary system and includes therapeutic devices for managing biliary stones and strictures.The SpyGlass&#8482; DS System, made available in 2015, brings digital imaging and a wider field of view to the SpyGlass System, helping play a greater role in the diagnosis and treatment of pancreatico-biliary diseases. 

&#8226; 

The AXIOS&#8482; Stent and Electrocautery-Enhanced Delivery System for endoscopic ultrasound-guided transmural drainage of pancreatic pseudo cysts, which provides procedural time savings when compared to a non-electrocautery enhanced system. In April 2015, we acquired Xlumena, Inc. (Xlumena), which developed minimally invasive devices for Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) guided transluminal drainage of targeted areas within the gastrointestinal tract. 

&#8226; 

Our WallFlex&#8482; Colonic Stents, which have been shown to reduce patient postoperative length of stay. Our WallFlex&#8482; Biliary RX Stents provide relief for pancreatic cancer patients receiving chemotherapy before undergoing surgery through pre-operative drainage of the bile duct. Our WallFlex&#8482; Esophageal Stents deliver luminal patency in patients with esophageal strictures. 

&#8226; 

Our Resolution&#174; Clip, a market-leading technology used to provide hemostasis and closure within the GI System. 

&#8226; 

Our Expect&#8482; Aspiration Needle, which is a flexible and highly visible needle used with endoscopic ultrasound enabling physicians to target and sample lesions in the GI system with a high degree of accuracy. 

&#8226; 

Our exclusive line of RX Biliary System&#8482; devices designed to provide greater access and control for physicians to diagnose and treat challenging conditions of the bile ducts, such as removing gallstones, opening obstructed bile ducts and obtaining biopsies in suspected tumors. 

Interventional Bronchoscopy 

We market devices to diagnose, treat and ease pulmonary disease systems within the airway and lungs. Our products are designed to help perform biopsies, retrieve foreign bodies from the airway, open narrowings of an airway, stop internal bleeding, and ease symptoms of some types of airway cancers. Our product line includes pulmonary biopsy forceps; transbronchial aspiration needles; cytology brushes; tracheobronchial stents used to dilate narrowed airway passages or for tumor management; and the Alair&#8482; Bronchial Thermoplasty System for the treatment of severe persistent asthma. 

Urology and Pelvic Health 

Our Urology and Pelvic Health business develops, manufactures and sells devices to treat various urological and pelvic conditions. Within our Urology business, we sell a variety of products designed to treat patients with urinary stone disease and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). We offer a full line of stone management products, including ureteral stents, wires, lithotripsy devices, stone retrieval devices, sheaths, balloons and catheters. Within our Pelvic Health business, we market a range of devices for the treatment of conditions such as stress urinary incontinence, pelvic floor reconstruction (rebuilding of the anatomy to its original state), menorrhagia (excessive menstrual bleeding), uterine fibroids and polyps, and erectile dysfunction. We offer a full breadth of mid-urethral sling products, sling materials, graft materials, pelvic floor reconstruction kits, and suturing devices. We market our Genesys Hydro ThermAblator&#174; (HTA) system, an ablation system designed to ablate the endometrial lining of the uterus in premenopausal women with menorrhagia. In the U.S., we have launched the Symphion System&#8482; for the removal of intrauterine fibroids and polyps. 

In August 2015, we completed the AMS Portfolio Acquisition, which includes men's health and prostate health businesses, from Endo International plc. The AMS Portfolio Acquisition includes the procurement of leading products for the treatment of a variety of urologic conditions, including the minimally invasive GreenLight XPS&#8482; and HPS&#8482; Laser Therapy Systems for treating BPH, 

&#32;7 

the AMS 700&#8482; Inflatable Penile Prosthesis for treating erectile dysfunction, and the AMS 800&#8482; Urinary Control System for treating male stress urinary incontinence. We are in the process of integrating the AMS male urology portfolio into our company. 

Neuromodulation 

Our Neuromodulation business offers the Precision TM &#32;and Precision Spectra TM &#32;Spinal Cord Stimulator (SCS) Systems, used for the management of chronic pain. The Precision Spectra TM &#32;System is the world's first and only SCS system with 32 contacts and 32 dedicated power sources and is designed to provide improved pain relief to a wide range of patients who suffer from chronic pain. We believe that we continue to have a technology advantage compared to our competitors with proprietary features such as Multiple Independent Current Control and our Illumina&#8482; 3D proprietary programming software, which together are intended to allow the physician to target specific areas of pain and customize stimulation of nerve fibers more precisely. Additionally, in June 2015, we launched the Precision Novi&#8482; SCS System in Europe. The Precision Novi&#8482; System offers patients and physicians the smallest 16-contact high capacity primary cell (PC), also referred to as non-rechargeable, device for the treatment of chronic pain. We also have CE-mark approval for use of our Vercise&#8482; Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) System in Europe for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, tremor and intractable primary and secondary dystonia, a neurological movement disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions. In September 2015, we gained CE-mark approvals for the Vercise&#8482; PC DBS System with its Navigator&#8482; programming software. The system allows for programming flexibility to treat a greater range of patients throughout their disease progression. In addition, we received CE Mark approval for the only commercially available Directional Lead powered by current steering. The Directional Lead uses multi-directional stimulation for greater precision, intended to minimize side effects for patients. We are currently in a U.S. pivotal trial with our Vercise DBS System for the treatment of Parkinson&#8217;s disease. 

Innovation 

Our approach to innovation combines internally-developed products and technologies with those we may obtain externally through strategic acquisitions and alliances. Our research and development efforts are focused largely on the development of next-generation and novel technology offerings across multiple programs and divisions. In addition, we have undertaken strategic acquisitions to help enable us to continue to be a leader in the medical device industry. We expect to continue to invest in our core franchises, and also investigate opportunities to further expand our presence in, and diversify into, strategic growth adjacencies and new global markets. During the last several years, we have completed multiple acquisitions to strengthen our core franchises and expand into high growth adjacencies and global markets. There can be no assurance that technologies developed internally or acquired through acquisitions and alliances will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approvals or gain market acceptance, and any delay in the development or approval of these technologies may adversely impact our ability to drive future growth. 

Research and Development 

Our investment in research and development is critical to driving our future growth. We expended $876 million &#32;on research and development in 2015 , $817 million &#32;in 2014 , and $861 million &#32;in 2013 . Our investment in research and development reflects the following: 

&#8226; 

regulatory compliance, clinical science, and internal research and development programs, as well as other programs obtained through our strategic acquisitions and alliances; and 

&#8226; 

engineering efforts that incorporate customer feedback into continuous improvement efforts for currently marketed and next-generation products. 

We have directed our development efforts toward regulatory compliance and innovative technologies designed to expand current markets or enter adjacent markets. We are transforming both where and how we conduct research and development and are scrutinizing our cost structure, which we believe will enable increased development activity and faster concept to market timelines. Our approach to new product design and development is through focused, cross-functional teams. We believe that our formal process for technology and product development aids in our ability to offer and manufacture innovative products in a consistent and timely manner. Involvement of the research and development, clinical, quality, regulatory, manufacturing and marketing teams early in the process is the cornerstone of our product development cycle. We believe this collaboration allows these teams to concentrate resources on the most viable and clinically relevant new products and technologies, and focus on bringing them to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition to internal development, we work with hundreds of leading research institutions, universities and clinicians around the world to develop, evaluate and clinically test our products. We are expanding our collaboration to include global research and development teams in emerging markets; these teams will focus on both global and local market requirements at a lower cost of development. We believe that a large part of our future success will depend upon the strength of these development efforts. 

&#32;8 

Marketing and Sales 

During 2015 , we marketed our products to approximately 30,000 hospitals, clinics, outpatient facilities and medical offices in the U.S. and across over 115 countries worldwide. The majority of our net sales are derived from countries in which we have direct sales organizations. We also have a network of distributors and dealers who offer our products in certain countries and markets, which accounts for our remaining sales. We expect to continue to leverage our infrastructure in markets where commercially appropriate and in those markets where it is not economical or strategic to establish or maintain a direct presence, use third party distributors. No single institution accounted for more than ten percent of our net sales in 2015 &#32;or 2014 ; however, large group purchasing organizations, hospital networks and other buying groups have become increasingly important to our business and represent a substantial portion of our net sales. We have a dedicated corporate sales organization in the U.S. focused principally on selling to major buying groups and integrated healthcare networks. We consistently strive to understand and exceed the expectations of our customers. Each of our businesses maintains dedicated sales forces and marketing teams focused on physicians who specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of different medical conditions. We believe that this focused disease state management enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives and to foster collaborative relationships with physicians. We believe that we have positive working relationships with physicians and others in the medical industry which enable us to gain a detailed understanding of new therapeutic and diagnostic alternatives and to respond quickly to the changing needs of physicians and their patients. 

International Operations 

International net sales accounted for approximately 43 percent &#32;of our net sales in 2015 . Maintaining and expanding our international presence is an important component of our long-term growth strategy. Through our international presence, we seek to increase net sales and market share, leverage our relationships with leading physicians and their clinical research programs, accelerate the time to bring new products to market, and gain access to worldwide technological developments that we can implement across our product lines. In addition, we are investing in infrastructure in emerging markets in order to strengthen our sales capabilities and maximize our opportunities in these countries. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had six international manufacturing facilities, including three in Ireland, two in Costa Rica and one in Puerto Rico. Approximately 56 percent of our products manufactured in 2015 &#32;were produced at these facilities. Additionally, we maintain international research and development capabilities in Ireland, India and China. We operate physician training centers in France, Japan, South Africa, Turkey, and China, and we are currently developing a physician training center in India. 

Manufacturing and Raw Materials 

We are focused on continuously improving our supply chain effectiveness, strengthening our manufacturing processes and increasing operational efficiencies within our organization. We believe by sourcing global manufacturing by technology capabilities, we are able to leverage our existing resources and concentrate on the development and commercial launch of new products and the enhancement of existing products. We continue to implement new systems designed to provide improved quality, reliability and service, greater efficiency and lower supply chain costs, and have substantially increased our focus on process controls and validations, supplier controls, distribution controls and providing our operations teams with the training and tools necessary to drive continuous improvement in product quality. In addition, we remain focused on examining our operations and general business activities to identify cost-improvement opportunities in order to enhance our operational effectiveness. 

Our products are designed and manufactured in technology centers around the world, either by us or third parties. In most cases, the manufacturing of each of our product families is concentrated in one location. We consistently monitor our inventory levels, manufacturing and distribution capabilities, and maintain recovery plans to address potential disruptions that we may encounter. However, significant interruptions in the manufacturing of our products for an extended duration may result in loss of market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

Many components used in the manufacture of our products are readily fabricated from commonly available raw materials or off-the-shelf items available from multiple supply sources; however, certain items are custom made to meet our specifications. We believe that in most cases, redundant capacity exists at our suppliers and that alternative sources of supply are available or could be developed within a reasonable period of time. We also have an on-going program to identify single-source components and to develop alternative back-up supplies and we regularly readdress the adequacy and abilities of our suppliers to meet our needs. 

&#32;9 

In certain cases we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers for specific materials, components or products, largely due to the regulatory approval system and the complex nature of our manufacturing processes and those of our suppliers. A reduction or interruption in supply, an inability to develop and validate alternative sources if required, or a significant increase in the price of raw materials, components or products could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly materials or components related to our CRM products and drug-eluting stent systems. In addition, many of our products require sterilization prior to sale and we utilize a mix of internal resources and contract sterilizers to perform this service. We believe we have capabilities sufficient to sterilize our products; however, to the extent we or our third-party sterilizers are unable to sterilize our products, whether due to capacity, availability of materials for sterilization, regulatory or other constraints, we may be unable to transition to other contract sterilizers, sterilizer locations or sterilization methods in a timely or cost effective manner or at all, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. 

Quality Assurance 

We are committed to providing high quality products to our customers. Our quality system starts with the initial product specification and continues through the design of the product, component specification process and the manufacturing, sale and servicing of the product. Our quality system is intended to build in quality and process control and to utilize continuous improvement concepts throughout the product life. These systems are designed to enable us to satisfy the various international quality system regulations, including those of the FDA with respect to products sold in the U.S. All of our manufacturing facilities, and our U.S. and European distribution centers, are certified under the ISO13485 quality system standard, established by the International Standards Organization, for medical devices, which requires, among other items, an implemented quality system that applies to component quality, supplier control, product design and manufacturing operations. This certification can be obtained only after a complete audit of a company&#8217;s quality system by an independent outside auditor. Maintenance of the certification requires that these facilities undergo periodic re-examination. 

Environmental Regulation and Management 

We are subject to various environmental laws, directives and regulations both in the U.S. and abroad. Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We do not believe that compliance with environmental laws will have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. However, given the scope and nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not have a material impact on our results of operations. We assess potential environmental contingent liabilities on a regular basis. At present, we are not aware of any such liabilities that would have a material impact on our business. 

We believe that sound environmental, health and safety performance contributes to our competitive strength while benefiting our customers, stockholders and employees. We are focused on continuous improvement in these areas by reducing pollution, the depletion of natural resources, and our overall environmental footprint. Specifically, we are working to optimize energy and resource usage, ultimately reducing greenhouse gas emissions and waste. We are certified to the FTSE4Good Corporate Social Responsibility Index, managed by The Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange, which measures the performance of companies that meet globally recognized standards of corporate responsibility. This certification recognizes our dedication to those standards, and it places us in a select group of companies with a demonstrated commitment to responsible business practices and sound environmental policies. 

We have obtained ISO 14001:2004 certifications at our major manufacturing plants and Tier 1 distribution centers around the world, as well as our Corporate Headquarters in Marlborough, Massachusetts. ISO 14001:2004 is a globally recognized standard for Environmental Management Systems, established by the International Standards Organization, which provides a voluntary framework to identify key environmental aspects associated with our business. Using this environmental management system and the specific attributes of our certified locations in the U.S., Ireland, Costa Rica and the Netherlands, we continue to improve our environmental performance and reduce our environmental footprint. 

Competition 

We encounter significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which we sell our products from various companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Our primary competitors include Abbott Laboratories; Medtronic plc; St. Jude Medical, Inc.; and Cook Medical; as well as a wide range of medical device companies that sell a single or limited number of competitive products or participate in only a specific market segment. We also face competition from non-medical device companies, such as pharmaceutical companies, which may offer alternative therapies for disease states intended to be treated using our products. 

&#32;10 

We believe that our products and solutions compete primarily on their ability to deliver both clinical and economic outcomes for our customers; while also continuing to safely and effectively perform diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in a less-invasive manner, as well as to provide ease of use, comparative effectiveness, reliability and physician familiarity. In the current environment of managed care, economically-motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price, value, reliability and efficiency. We believe the current global economic conditions and healthcare reform measures could continue to put additional competitive pressure on us, including on our average selling prices, overall procedure rates and market sizes. We recognize that our continued competitive success will depend upon our ability to: offer products and solutions that provide differentiated clinical and economic outcomes; create or acquire innovative, scientifically advanced technologies; apply our technology and solutions cost-effectively and with superior quality across product lines and markets; develop or acquire proprietary products and solutions; attract and retain skilled personnel; obtain patent or other protection for our products; obtain required regulatory and reimbursement approvals; continually enhance our quality systems; manufacture and successfully market our products and solutions either directly or through outside parties; and supply sufficient inventory to meet customer demand. 

Medical Device Regulatory Approvals 

The medical devices that we manufacture and market are subject to regulation by numerous worldwide regulatory bodies, including the FDA and comparable international regulatory agencies. These agencies require manufacturers of medical devices to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of medical devices. Devices are generally subject to varying levels of regulatory control, based on the risk level of the device. 

In the U.S., authorization to commercially distribute a new device generally can be met in one of three ways. The first process requires that a premarket notification (510(k)) be made to the FDA to demonstrate that the device is as safe and effective as, or substantially equivalent to, a legally marketed device, the &#8220;predicate&#8221; device. Applicants must submit performance data to establish substantial equivalence. In some instances, data from human clinical trials must also be submitted in support of a 510(k) premarket notification. If so, these data must be collected in a manner that conforms to the applicable Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) regulations. The FDA must issue a decision finding substantial equivalence before commercial distribution can occur. Changes to cleared devices that could not significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device can generally be made without additional 510(k) premarket notifications; otherwise, a new 510(k) is required. 

The second process requires the submission of a premarket approval (PMA) application to the FDA to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective for its intended use. This approval process applies to most Class III devices, and generally requires clinical data to support the safety and effectiveness of the device, obtained in adherence with IDE requirements. The FDA will approve the PMA application if it finds that there is a reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended purpose, and that the proposed manufacturing is in compliance with the Quality System Regulation (QSR). For novel technologies, the FDA will generally seek input from an advisory panel of medical experts and seek their views on the safety, effectiveness and benefit-risk of the device. The PMA process is generally more detailed, lengthier and more expensive than the 510(k) process. 

The third process requires that an application for a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) be made to the FDA for the use of a Humanitarian Use Device (HUD). An HUD is intended to benefit patients by treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects, or is manifested in, fewer than 4,000 individuals in the U.S. per year. The application submitted to the FDA for an HDE is similar in both form and content to a PMA application, but is exempt from the effectiveness requirements of a PMA. The HUD provision of the regulation provides an incentive for the development of devices for use in the treatment or diagnosis of diseases affecting smaller patient populations. 

In the European Union, we are required to comply with applicable medical device directives (including the Medical Devices Directive and the Active Implantable Medical Devices Directive) and obtain CE Mark certification in order to market medical devices. The CE Mark is applied following approval from an independent notified body or declaration of conformity. It is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European Medical Devices Directives. We are also required to comply with the regulations of each other country where we commercialize products, such as the requirement that we obtain approval from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) and China Food and Drug Administration before we can launch new products in Japan and China, respectively. 

The FDA and other worldwide regulatory agencies and competent authorities actively monitor compliance to local laws and regulations through review and inspection of design and manufacturing practices, record keeping, reporting of adverse events, labeling and promotional practices. The FDA can ban certain medical devices; detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices; order repair, replacement or refund of these devices; and require notification of health professionals and others with regard to medical devices that present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also enjoin and restrain a company for certain violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Safe Medical Devices Act pertaining to medical 

&#32;11 

devices, or initiate action for criminal prosecution of such violations. Regulatory agencies and authorities in the countries where we do business can halt production in or distribution within their respective country, or otherwise take action in accordance with local laws and regulations. 

International sales of medical devices manufactured in the U.S. that are not approved by the FDA for use in the U.S., or that are banned or deviate from lawful performance standards, are subject to FDA export requirements. Exported devices are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country to which the device is exported. Some countries do not have medical device regulations, but in most foreign countries, medical devices are regulated. Frequently, regulatory approval may first be obtained in a foreign country prior to application in the U.S. due to differing regulatory requirements; however, other countries, such as China for example, require approval in the country of origin first. Most countries outside of the U.S. require that product approvals be recertified on a regular basis, generally every five years. The recertification process requires that we evaluate any device changes and any new regulations or standards relevant to the device and, where needed, conduct appropriate testing to document continued compliance. Where recertification applications are required, they must be approved in order to continue selling our products in those countries. 

Our global regulatory environment is becoming increasingly stringent, and unpredictable, which could increase the time, cost and complexity of obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. Several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, existing regulations. Certain regulators are requiring local clinical data in addition to global clinical data. While harmonization of global regulations has been pursued, requirements continue to differ significantly among countries. We expect that the global regulatory environment will continue to evolve, which could impact our ability to obtain or maintain future approvals for our products, or could increase the cost and time to obtain or maintain such approvals in the future. 

Government Affairs 

We maintain a global Government Affairs presence, headquartered in Washington, D.C., to actively monitor and advocate on myriad legislation and policies impacting us, both on a domestic and an international front. The Government Affairs office works closely with members of Congress and committee staff, the White House and Administration offices, state legislatures and regulatory agencies, and governments overseas on issues affecting our business. Our proactive approach and depth of political and policy expertise are aimed at having our positions heard by federal, state and global decision-makers, while also advancing our business objectives by educating policymakers on our positions, key priorities and the value of our technologies. The Government Affairs office also manages our political action committee and works closely with trade groups on issues affecting our industry and healthcare in general. 

Healthcare Policies 

Political, economic and regulatory influences around the world continue to subject the healthcare industry to potential fundamental changes that could substantially affect our results of operations. Government and private sector initiatives related to limiting the growth of healthcare costs (including price regulation), coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness reviews of therapies, technology assessments, and health care delivery structure reforms are continuing in many countries where we do business. We believe that these changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of treatments that can reduce costs, improve efficiencies, and/or increase patient access. Although we believe our less-invasive products and technologies generate favorable clinical outcomes, value and cost efficiency, the resources necessary to demonstrate value to our customers, patients, payers, and other stakeholders may be significant and new therapies may take a longer period of time to gain widespread adoption. In addition, the impact to our business of the United States&#8217; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act's (ACA) provisions related to coverage expansion, payment reforms, and delivery system changes remains uncertain. 

In addition, the Federal government, as part of the ACA, and certain state governments have enacted laws aimed at increasing transparency, or "sunshine," in relationships between medical device, biologics and pharmaceutical companies and healthcare professionals (HCPs). As a result, we are required by law to report many types of payments and items of value provided to HCPs. Certain foreign jurisdictions are currently acting to implement similar laws. Failure to comply with sunshine laws and/or implement and adhere to adequate policies and practices to address changes to legal and regulatory requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 

We expect that pricing of medical devices will remain under pressure as governments and purchasers implement payment reforms such as prospective payment systems for hospital care, preferential site of service payments, value-based purchasing, and accountable care organizations (ACOs). We also expect marketplace changes to place pressure on medical device pricing globally as hospitals consolidate and large group purchasing organizations, hospital networks and other groups continue to seek to aggregate purchasing power. Similarly, governments are increasing the use of tenders, placing pressure on medical device pricing. 

&#32;12 

In addition, patients and clinicians are becoming more informed on the risks and benefits of alternative treatments as comparative effectiveness research findings are beginning to be disseminated. Therefore, we believe that compelling clinical and economic data will become increasingly important to demonstrate effectiveness and illustrate the economic impacts of technology purchases. 

See Healthcare Policies &#32;within Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report for additional information. 

Third-Party Coverage and Reimbursement 

Our products are purchased principally by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers around the world that typically bill various third-party payers, including governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S.), private insurance plans and managed care programs, for the services provided to their patients. 

Third-party payers and governments may approve or deny coverage for certain technologies and associated procedures based on independently determined assessment criteria. Reimbursement decisions by payers for these services are based on a wide range of methodologies that may reflect the services' assessed resource costs, clinical outcomes and economic value. These reimbursement methodologies and decisions confer different, and sometimes conflicting, levels of financial risk and incentives to healthcare providers and patients, and these methodologies and decisions are subject to frequent refinements. Third-party payers are also increasingly adjusting reimbursement rates, often downwards, indirectly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. There can be no assurance that our products will be covered automatically by third-party payers, that adequate reimbursement will be available or, even if payment is available, that third-party payers' coverage policies will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. 

Proprietary Rights and Patent Litigation 

We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. We generally file patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries where patent protection for our technology is appropriate and available. As of December 31, 2015 , we held more than &#32; 16,000 patents, and had approximately 6,500 patent applications pending worldwide that cover various aspects of our technology. In addition, we hold exclusive and non-exclusive licenses to a variety of third-party technologies covered by patents and patent applications. There can be no assurance that pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, that patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with a competitive advantage. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business; however, we believe that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license, except for those relating to our drug-eluting coronary stent systems, is material in relation to our business as a whole. 

We rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. 

There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry, particularly in the areas in which we compete. We continue to defend ourselves against claims and legal actions alleging infringement of the patent rights of others. Adverse determinations in any patent litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, and, if licenses are not available, prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we may find it necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our patent rights, to protect our trade secrets or know-how and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Patent litigation can be costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that our litigation expenses will not be significant in the future or that the outcome of litigation will be favorable to us. Accordingly, we may seek to settle some or all of our pending litigation, particularly to manage risk over time. Settlement may include cross licensing of the patents that are the subject of the litigation as well as our other intellectual property and may involve monetary payments to or from third parties. 

We maintain insurance policies providing limited coverage against securities claims, and we are substantially self-insured with respect to product liability claims and fully self-insured with respect to intellectual property infringement claims. The absence of significant third-party insurance coverage increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims or adverse decisions. See Item 3 and Note K &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies &#32;to our 2015 &#32;consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a discussion of intellectual property, product liability and other litigation and proceedings in which we are involved. 

&#32;13 

In management&#8217;s opinion, we are not currently involved in any legal proceeding other than those specifically identified in Note K, &#32;which, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operations and/or cash flows. 

Risk Management 

We have an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program designed to support the achievement of our strategic and organizational objectives, to improve long-term organizational performance and to enhance stockholder value. On an annual basis, we reassess our understanding of the individual risks we face and the steps management is taking to manage those risks using the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) ERM framework. This assessment, which engages key individuals from our Board of Directors and management, ensures alignment and provides increased visibility of the risks we face, and seeks to continually improve the effectiveness of our overall risk management. 

Current Economic Climate 

Our results of operations could be substantially affected by global economic factors and local operating and economic conditions. Our customers may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability or decision to purchase our products, particularly capital equipment, or to pay for our products they do purchase on a timely basis, if at all. We cannot predict to what extent global economic conditions, including the increased focus on healthcare systems and costs in the U.S. and abroad may negatively impact our average selling prices, our net sales and profit margins, procedural volumes and reimbursement rates from third-party payers. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 25,000 employees, including approximately 10,000 in operations; 8,000 in selling, marketing and distribution; 4,000 in clinical, regulatory and research and development; and 3,000 in administration. Of these employees, we employed approximately 12,000 outside the U.S., approximately 7,000 of whom are in the manufacturing operations function. We believe that the continued success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, and we are committed to developing our people and providing them with opportunities to contribute to our growth and success. 

Community Outreach 

We are committed to transforming lives and making a positive impact on the communities in which we live and work. We bring this commitment to life by supporting global, national and local health and education initiatives, striving to improve patient advocacy, adhering to strong ethical standards that deliver on our commitments, and minimizing our impact on the environment. A prominent example of our ongoing commitment to educating the next generation of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) innovators is our growing global network of Boston Scientific STEM Councils. These councils are designed to mobilize employees as volunteers and mentors to share their excitement of learning and working in STEM fields with curious young learners around the world. 

Our focus on learning and innovation is evidenced by mentoring For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology ( FIRST) Robotics teams, visiting classrooms to talk to students about the structure of the heart and STEM careers, along with hosting school groups at our locations for lab tours, tech expos and career panel discussions. In the past year nearly 1,000 employee volunteers dedicated their time and talent to make a positive impact on more than 30,000 children in over 12 communities around the world to increase student aspiration, ability and access to STEM education. 

Through the Boston Scientific Foundation, established in 2001, we fund non-profit organizations in our local U.S. communities. Community grants focus on increasing access to quality healthcare and improving educational opportunities, particularly related to STEM education. 

Seasonality 

Our worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, customer purchases have historically been lower in the third quarter of the year, as compared to other quarters. This reflects, among other factors, lower demand during summer months in the northern hemisphere, particularly in European countries. 

&#32;14 

Available Information 

Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are available free of charge on our website (www.bostonscientific.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with or furnish it to the U.S. SEC. Printed copies of these posted materials are also available free of charge to stockholders who request them in writing from Investor Relations, 300 Boston Scientific Way, Marlborough, MA 01752-1234. Information on our website or linked to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 

Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements 

Certain statements that we may make from time to time, including statements contained in this Annual Report and information incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, constitute &#8220;forward-looking statements&#8221; within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like &#8220;anticipate,&#8221; &#8220;expect,&#8221; &#8220;project,&#8221; &#8220;believe,&#8221; &#8220;plan,&#8221; &#8220;may,&#8221; &#8220;estimate,&#8221; &#8220;intend&#8221; and similar words. These forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information available to us at the time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance. If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. As a result, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we do not intend to update any forward-looking statements even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. 

The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are based on certain risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors described in Item 1A under the heading &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; and the specific risk factors discussed below and in connection with forward-looking statements throughout this Annual Report, which could cause actual results to vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. These additional factors include, among other things, future political, economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions; demographic trends; intellectual property; litigation and governmental investigations; financial market conditions; and future business decisions made by us and our competitors, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. We caution each reader of this Annual Report to consider carefully these factors. 

The following are some of the important risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations in any forward-looking statements. For further discussion of these and other risk factors, see Item 1A - Risk Factors. 

Our Businesses 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Our ability to increase net sales, expand the market and capture market share; 

&#8226; 

The volatility of the coronary stent market and our ability to increase our drug-eluting stent systems net sales, including with respect to our SYNERGY&#8482;, Promus PREMIER&#8482; and PROMUS&#174; Element&#8482; stent systems, and capture market share; 

&#8226; 

The on-going impact on our business, of physician alignment to hospitals, governmental investigations and audits of hospitals, and other market and economic conditions on the overall number of procedures performed; 

&#8226; 

Competitive offerings and related declines in average selling prices for our products, particularly our drug-eluting coronary stent systems and our CRM products; 

&#8226; 

The performance of, and physician and patient confidence in, our products and technologies, or those of our competitors; 

&#8226; 

The impact and outcome of ongoing and future clinical trials, and market studies undertaken by us, our competitors or other third parties, or perceived product performance of our or our competitors' products; 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Variations in clinical results, reliability or product performance of our and our competitor's products; 

&#8226; 

Our ability to acquire or develop, launch and supply new or next-generation products and technologies worldwide and across our businesses in line with our commercialization strategies in a timely and successful manner, including our S- 

&#32;15 

ICD&#174; system and the acquisition and integration of the interventional radiology portfolio of CeloNova Biosciences, the American Medical Systems male urology portfolio, Xlumena, Inc., the Interventional Division of Bayer AG and IoGyn, Inc.; 

&#8226; 

The effect of consolidation and competition in the markets in which we do business, or plan to do business; 

&#8226; 

Disruption in the manufacture or supply of certain components, materials or products, or the failure to secure alternative manufacturing or additional or replacement components, materials or products, in a timely manner; 

&#8226; 

Our ability to retain and attract key personnel; 

&#8226; 

The impact of enhanced requirements to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and around the world, including the associated timing and cost of product approval; and, 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

The impact of increased pressure on the availability and rate of third-party reimbursement for our products and procedures in the U.S. and around the world, including with respect to the timing and costs of creating and expanding markets for new products and technologies. 

Regulatory Compliance and Litigation 

&#8226; 

The impact of healthcare policy changes and legislative or regulatory efforts in the U.S. and around the world to modify product approval or reimbursement processes, including a trend toward demonstrating clinical outcomes, comparative effectiveness and cost efficiency, as well as the impact of other healthcare reform legislation; 

&#8226; 

Risks associated with our regulatory compliance and quality systems and activities in the U.S. and around the world, including meeting regulatory standards applicable to manufacturing and quality processes; 

&#8226; 

Our ability to minimize or avoid future field actions or FDA warning letters relating to our products and processes and the on-going inherent risk of potential physician advisories related to medical devices; 

&#8226; 

The impact of increased scrutiny of and heightened global regulatory enforcement facing the medical device industry arising from political and regulatory changes, economic pressures or otherwise, including under U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute, U.S. False Claims Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions; U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and/or similar laws in other jurisdictions, and U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and custom laws; 

&#8226; 

Costs and risks associated with litigation; 

&#8226; 

The effect of our litigation and risk management practices, including self-insurance, and compliance activities on our loss contingencies, legal provision and cash flows; 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

The impact of, diversion of management attention as a result of, and costs to cooperate with, litigate and/or resolve, governmental investigations and our class action, product liability, contract and other legal proceedings; and 

&#8226; 

Risks associated with a failure to protect our intellectual property rights and the outcome of patent litigation. 

Innovation and Certain Growth Initiatives 

&#8226; 

The timing, size and nature of our strategic growth initiatives and market opportunities, including with respect to our internal research and development platforms and externally available research and development platforms and technologies, and the ultimate cost and success of those initiatives and opportunities; 

&#8226; 

Our ability to complete planned clinical trials successfully, obtain regulatory approvals and launch new and next generation products in a timely manner consistent with cost estimates, including the successful completion of in-process projects from in-process research and development; 

&#8226; 

Our ability to identify and prioritize our internal research and development project portfolio and our external investment portfolio on profitable revenue growth opportunities as well as to keep them in line with the estimated timing and costs of such projects and expected revenue levels for the resulting products and technologies; 

&#32;16 

&#8226; 

Our ability to develop, manufacture and market new products and technologies in a timely and successful manner and the ability of our competitors and other third parties to develop products or technologies that render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete; 

&#8226; 

The impact of our failure to succeed at our decision to discontinue, write-down or reduce the funding of any of our research and development projects, including in-process projects from in-process research and development, in our growth adjacencies or otherwise; 

&#8226; 

Dependence on acquisitions, alliances or investments to introduce new products or technologies and to enter new or adjacent growth markets, and our ability to fund them or to fund contingent payments with respect to those acquisitions, alliances and investments; and 

&#8226; 

The failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits from the strategic acquisitions, alliances and investments we have consummated or may consummate in the future. 

International Markets 

&#8226; 

Our dependency on international net sales to achieve growth, including in emerging markets; 

&#8226; 

The impact of changes in our international structure and leadership; 

&#8226; 

Risks associated with international operations and investments, including the timing and collectibility of customer payments, political and economic conditions, protection of our intellectual property, compliance with established and developing U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory requirements, including FCPA and similar laws in other jurisdictions and U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and custom laws, as well as changes in reimbursement practices and policies; 

&#8226; 

Our ability to maintain or expand our worldwide market positions in the various markets in which we compete or seek to compete, including through investments in product diversification and emerging markets such as Brazil, Russia, India and China; 

&#8226; 

Our ability to execute and realize anticipated benefits from our investments in emerging markets; and 

&#8226; 

The potential effect of foreign currency fluctuations and interest rate fluctuations on our net sales, expenses and resulting margins. 

Liquidity 

&#8226; 

Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures, global expansion initiatives, any litigation settlements and judgments, share repurchases and strategic investments and acquisitions as well as maintaining our investment grade ratings and managing our debt levels and covenant compliance; 

&#8226; 

Our ability to access the public and private capital markets when desired and to issue debt or equity securities on terms reasonably acceptable to us; 

&#8226; 

The unfavorable resolution of open tax matters, exposure to additional tax liabilities and the impact of changes in U.S. and international tax laws; 

&#8226; 

The impact of examinations and assessments by domestic and international taxing authorities on our tax provision, financial condition or results of operations; and 

&#8226; 

Our ability to collect outstanding and future receivables and/or sell receivables under our factoring programs. 

Cost Reduction and Optimization Initiatives 

&#8226; 

Risks associated with significant changes made or expected to be made to our organizational and operational structure, pursuant to our 2014 Restructuring plan as well as any further restructuring or optimization plans we may undertake in the future, and our ability to recognize benefits and cost reductions from such programs; and 

&#32;17 

&#8226; 

Business disruption and employee distraction as we execute our global compliance program, restructuring and optimization plans and divestitures of assets or businesses and implement our other strategic and cost reduction initiatives. 

&#32;18 

