 Item 1. BUSINESS General 

Company Background . Barrett Business Services, Inc. (&#147;BBSI,&#148; the &#147;Company,&#148; &#147;our&#148; or &#147;we&#148;), is a leading provider of business management solutions for small and mid-sized companies. The Company has developed a management platform that integrates a knowledge-based approach from the management consulting industry with tools from the human resource outsourcing industry. This platform, through the effective leveraging of human capital, helps our business owner clients run their businesses more effectively. We believe this platform, delivered through a decentralized organizational structure, differentiates BBSI from our competitors. BBSI was incorporated in Maryland in 1965. 

Certain statements below contain forward-looking information that is subject to risks and uncertainties. See &#147;Forward-Looking Information&#148; in Item 7 of Part II of this report and &#147;Risk Factors&#148; in Item 1A of Part I of this report. 

Business Strategy . Our strategy is to align local operations teams with the mission of small and mid-sized business owners, driving value to their business. To do so, BBSI: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; partners with business owners to leverage their investment in human capital through a high-touch, results-oriented approach; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; brings predictability to each client organization through a three-tiered management platform; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; enables business owners to focus on their core business by reducing organizational complexity and maximizing productivity. 

Business Organization . We operate a decentralized delivery model using operationally-focused business teams, typically located within 50 miles of our client companies. These teams are led by senior level business generalists and comprised of senior level professionals with expertise in human resources, organizational development, risk mitigation and workplace safety and various types of administration, including payroll. These teams are responsible for growth of their operations, and for providing strategic leadership, guidance and expert consultation to our client companies. The decentralized structure fosters autonomous decision-making in which business teams deliver plans that closely align with the objectives of each business owner client. This structure also provides a means of incubating talent to support increased growth and capacity. We support clients with employees located in 22 states and the District of Columbia through a network of 55 branch locations in California, Oregon, Washington, Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, Utah, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina and Virginia. We also have several smaller recruiting locations in our general market areas, which are under the direction of a branch office. 

BBSI believes that making significant investments in the best talent available allows us to leverage the value of this investment many times over. We motivate our management employees through a compensation package that includes a competitive base salary and the opportunity for profit sharing. At the branch level, profit sharing is in direct correlation to client performance, reinforcing a culture focused on achievement of client goals. 

&#160; 

- 4 - 

Services Overview . BBSI&#146;s core purpose is to advocate for business owners, particularly in the small and mid-sized business segment. Our evolution from an entrepreneurially run company to a professionally managed organization has helped to form our view that all businesses experience inflection points at key stages of growth. The insights gained through our own growth, along with the trends we see in working with more than 4,000 companies each day, define our approach to guiding business owners through the challenges associated with being an employer. BBSI&#146;s business teams align with each business owner client through a structured three-tiered progression. In doing so, business teams focus on the objectives of each business owner and deliver planning, guidance and resources in support of those objectives. 

Tier 1: Tactical Alignment 

The first stage focuses on the mutual setting of expectations and is essential to a successful client relationship. It begins with a process of assessment and discovery in which the business owner&#146;s business objectives, attitudes, and culture are aligned with BBSI&#146;s processes, controls and culture. This stage includes an implementation process, which addresses the administrative components of employment. 

Tier 2: Dynamic Relationship 

The second stage of the relationship emphasizes organizational development as a means of achieving each client&#146;s business objectives. There is a focus on process improvement, development of best practices, supervisor training and leadership development. 

Tier 3: Strategic Counsel 

With an emphasis on advocacy on behalf of the business owner, the third stage of the relationship is more strategic and forward-looking with a goal of cultivating an environment in which all efforts are directed by the mission and long-term objectives of the business owner. 

In addition to serving as a resource and guide, BBSI has the ability to provide workers&#146; compensation coverage as a means of meeting statutory requirements and protecting our clients from employment-related injury claims. Through our internal claims managers and our third-party administrators, we provide claims management services for our clients. We work aggressively to manage and reduce job injury claims, identify fraudulent claims and structure optimal work programs, including modified duty. 

Categories of Services 

We report financial results in two categories of services: Professional Employer Services (PEO) and Staffing. During 2015, we supported in excess of 4,100 PEO clients and approximately 151,000 employees. This compares to more than 3,600 PEO clients and approximately 129,000 employees during 2014. See Item 7 of this Report for information regarding the percentages of total net revenues provided by our PEO and staffing services for each of the last three fiscal years. 

PEO . We enter into a client services agreement to establish a co-employment relationship with each client company, assuming responsibility for payroll, payroll taxes, workers&#146; compensation coverage and certain other administrative functions for the client&#146;s existing workforce. The client maintains physical care, custody and control of their workforce, including the authority to hire and terminate employees. 

&#160; 

- 5 - 

Staffing and Recruiting . Our staffing services include on-demand or short-term staffing assignments, contract staffing, long-term or indefinite-term on-site management, and direct placement. Our recruiting experts maintain a deep network of professionals from which we source candidates. Through an assessment process, we gain an understanding of the short-and long-term needs of our clients, allowing us to identify and source the right talent for each position. We then conduct a rigorous screening process to help ensure a successful hire. 

Clients and Client Contracts 

Our business is typically characterized by long-term relationships that result in recurring revenue. The terms and conditions applicable to our client relationships are set forth in a client services agreement, which typically provides for an initial term of one year with renewal for additional one-year periods but generally permits cancellation by either party upon 30 days&#146; written notice. In addition, we may terminate the agreement at any time for specified breach of contract, including nonpayment or failure to follow our workplace safety recommendations. Our annual client retention rate is in excess of 90%. 

The client services agreement also provides for indemnification by the client against losses arising out of any default by the client under the agreement, including failure to comply with any employment-related, health and safety, or immigration laws or regulations. Our client service agreement requires clients in a co-employment arrangement to maintain comprehensive liability coverage in the amount of $1.0 million for acts of their employees. It is nevertheless possible that claims not satisfied through indemnification or insurance may be asserted against us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 

We have client services agreements with a diverse array of customers, including electronics manufacturers, various light-manufacturing industries, agriculture-based companies, transportation and shipping enterprises, food processors, telecommunications companies, public utilities, general contractors in various construction-related fields, and professional services firms. None of our clients individually represented more than 1% of our total revenues in 2015. 

Market Opportunity 

As a company that aligns with the mission of business owners by providing resources and guidance to small and mid-size businesses, BBSI believes its growth is driven by the desire of business owners to focus on mission-critical functions, reduce complexity associated with the employment function, mitigate costs and maximize the investment in human capital. Our integrated management platform has enabled us to capitalize on these needs within the small to mid-size business sector. 

The small and mid-sized business segment is particularly attractive because: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; it is large, continues to grow and remains underserved by professional services companies; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; it typically has fewer in-house resources than larger businesses and, as a result, is generally more dependent on external resources; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; we generally experience a relatively high client retention rate and lower client acquisition costs within this market segment; and 

&#160; 

- 6 - 

&#160; &#149; &#160; we have found that small to mid-sized businesses are responsive to quality of service, ease-of-use, and responsiveness to clients&#146; needs when selecting a PEO or staffing services provider. 

Competition 

The business environment in which we operate is characterized by intense competition and fragmentation. BBSI is not aware of reliable statistics regarding the number of its competitors, but certain large, well-known companies typically compete with us in the same markets and also have greater financial and marketing resources than we do, including Automatic Data Processing, Inc., ManpowerGroup, Inc., Kelly Services, Inc., Insperity, Inc., TriNet Group, Inc., CDI Corp, Robert Half International Inc. and Paychex, Inc. We face additional competition from regional providers and we may in the future also face competition from new entrants to the field, including other staffing services companies, payroll processing companies and insurance companies. The principal competitive factors in the business environment in which we operate are price and level of service. 

We believe that our growth is attributable to our ability to provide small and mid-sized companies with the resources and knowledge base of a large employer delivered through a local operations team. Our level of integration with each client business provides us an additional competitive advantage. 

Growth Strategy 

We believe our clients are our best advocates and powerful drivers of referral-based growth. In each market, operations teams provide expertise, consultation and support to our clients, driving growth and supporting retention. We anticipate that by adding business teams to existing branches, we can achieve incremental growth in those markets, driven by our reputation and by client referrals. While in most markets, business development efforts are led by area managers, in some markets our sales efforts are further supported by Business Development Managers. 

Our business growth has three primary sources: referrals from existing clients, direct business-to-business sales efforts by our area managers and an extensive referral network. Partners in our referral network include insurance brokers, financial advisors, attorneys, CPA&#146;s, and other business professionals who can facilitate an introduction to prospective clients. These referral partners facilitate introductions to business owners on our behalf, typically in exchange for a fee equal to a small percentage of payroll. 

We see two key drivers to our growth: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Increase market share in existing markets. We seek to support, strengthen and expand branch office operations through the ongoing development of business teams. We believe that strengthening and expanding the operations of each location is an efficient and effective means of increasing market share in the geographic areas in which we do business, and that our business teams serve a dual purpose: 1) Delivering high-quality service to our clients, thereby supporting client business growth and retention, and driving client referrals, and 2) Incubating talent at the branch level to support expansion into new markets. 

&#160; 

- 7 - 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Penetrate new markets. We intend to open additional branch offices in new geographic markets as opportunities arise. We have developed a strategic approach to geographic expansion, which will serve as a guide for determining if and when to enter new markets. We believe our decentralized organizational model built on teams of senior-level professionals allows us to incubate talent to support our expansion efforts. 

Workers&#146; Compensation 

Through our client services agreement, we have the ability to provide workers&#146; compensation coverage to our clients. We provide this coverage through a variety of methods, all of which are subject to rigorous underwriting to assess financial stability, risk factors and cultural alignment related to safety and the client&#146;s desire to improve their operations. In providing this coverage, we are responsible for complying with applicable statutory requirements for workers&#146; compensation coverage. 

Risk mitigation is also an important contributor to our principal goal of helping business owners operate their business more efficiently. It is in the mutual interests of the client and BBSI to commit to workplace safety and risk mitigation. 

Elements of Workers&#146; Compensation System . State law (and for certain types of employees, federal law) generally mandates that an employer reimburse its employees for the costs of medical care and other specified benefits for injuries or illnesses, including catastrophic injuries and fatalities, incurred in the course and scope of employment. Most states require employers to maintain workers&#146; compensation insurance or otherwise demonstrate financial responsibility to meet workers&#146; compensation obligations to employees. The benefits payable for various categories of claims are determined by state regulation and vary with the severity and nature of the injury or illness and other specified factors. In return for this guaranteed protection, workers&#146; compensation is an exclusive remedy and employees are generally precluded from seeking other damages from their employer for workplace injuries. In many states, employers who meet certain financial and other requirements are permitted to self-insure. 

Insurance Coverage for Workers&#146; Compensation . We currently maintain self-insured employer status for workers&#146; compensation in Oregon, Delaware, Maryland and Colorado, as well as in Washington for our staffing and management employees. Regulations governing self-insured employers in each jurisdiction typically require the employer to maintain surety bonds, surety deposits of government securities, letters of credit or other financial instruments to cover workers&#146; claims in the event the employer is unable to pay for such claims. BBSI was self-insured as to worker&#146;s compensation claims in California from 1995 until December 31, 2014. Effective January 1, 2015, the Company ceased maintaining a certificate to self-insure in the state of California, and it now maintains individual policies with ACE Group (&#147;ACE&#148;) for all clients in California, along with clients in Delaware, Virginia, Pennsylvania and the District of Columbia. See &#147;Regulatory Changes in California&#148; below for further discussion of recent developments in California. 

To manage our financial exposure to catastrophic injuries and fatalities, we maintain excess workers&#146; compensation insurance coverage. Our wholly owned, fully licensed captive insurance company incorporated in Arizona, Associated Insurance Company for Excess (&#147;AICE&#148;), provides excess workers&#146; compensation coverage up to $5.0 million per occurrence, except in Maryland and Colorado, where our retention per occurrence is $1.0 million and 

&#160; 

- 8 - 

$2.0 million, respectively. AICE maintains excess workers&#146; compensation insurance coverage with ACE between $5.0 million and $15.0 million per occurrence, except in Maryland, where coverage with ACE is between $1.0 million and $25.0 million per occurrence, and in Colorado, where the coverage with ACE is between $2.0 million and statutory limits per occurrence. 

Overall, this approach results in a per occurrence retention on a consolidated basis of $5.0 million. In light of the higher per occurrence retention, we may incur higher workers&#146; compensation costs and a corresponding negative effect on our operating results. 

AICE provides us with access to an alternative mechanism for excess insurance coverage, as well as certain income tax benefits arising from the ability to accelerate the tax deduction of certain accruals for workers&#146; compensation claims. 

Additionally, Ecole Insurance Company, a wholly owned, fully licensed insurance company (&#147;Ecole&#148;), provides workers&#146; compensation coverage to our employees working in Arizona, Nevada and Utah. We maintain additional reinsurance coverage for Ecole with ACE between $5.0 million and statutory limits per occurrence. 

Claims Management . As a result of our status as a self-insured employer in many states and other arrangements, our workers&#146; compensation expense is tied directly to the incidence and severity of workplace injuries to our employees. We seek to contain our workers&#146; compensation costs through an aggressive approach to claims management. We use managed-care systems to reduce medical costs and keep time-loss costs to a minimum by assigning injured workers, whenever possible, to short-term assignments which accommodate the workers&#146; physical limitations. We believe that these assignments minimize both time actually lost from work and covered time-loss costs. We employ internal, professionally licensed claims adjusters and engage third-party claims administrators (&#147;TPAs&#148;) to provide the principal claims management expertise. Typical claims management procedures include performing thorough and prompt on-site investigations of claims filed by employees, working with physicians to encourage efficient medical management of cases, denying questionable claims and attempting to negotiate early settlements to eliminate future adverse development of claims costs. We also maintain a corporate-wide pre-employment drug screening program and a mandatory post-injury drug test. We believe our claims management program has resulted in a reduction in the frequency of fraudulent claims and in accidents in which the use of illegal drugs appears to have been a contributing factor. 

Components of Our Workers&#146; Compensation Costs . The costs associated with our workers&#146; compensation program include case reserves for reported claims, an additional expense provision for potential future increases in the cost to finally resolve open injury claims (known as &#147;adverse loss development&#148;) and claims incurred in prior periods but not reported (together with adverse loss development, &#147;IBNR&#148;), fees payable to our TPAs, additional claims administration expenses, administrative fees payable to state workers&#146; compensation regulatory agencies, legal fees, MCC fees, business referral fees, premiums for excess workers&#146; compensation insurance, and costs associated with forming and operating our wholly owned, fully licensed captive insurance company for excess coverage, AICE. The state assessments are typically based on payroll amounts and, to a limited extent, the amount of permanent disability awards during the previous year. Excess insurance premiums are also based in part on the size and risk profile of our payroll and loss experience. 

&#160; 

- 9 - 

Regulatory Changes in California . Effective January 1, 2015, we ceased maintaining a certificate to self-insure in the state of California as required under California Senate Bill 863 (&#147;SB 863&#148;), which was signed into law in September 2012. Under SB 863, the California Director of Self-Insurance was required not to issue certificates of consent to self-insure after January 1, 2013, to any employer engaged in the activities of a professional employer organization, a leasing employer, a temporary services employer or any employer the Director determines to be in the business of providing employees to other employers. Additionally, the Director was required to revoke any previously issued certificate of consent to self-insure in favor of any employer engaged in these types of activities not later than January 1, 2015. 

To address the Company&#146;s anticipated surrender of its certificate to self-insure, in February 2014 BBSI entered into an arrangement typically known as a fronted insurance program with ACE. Under this arrangement, ACE provides workers&#146; compensation insurance to our clients, but BBSI retains the risk of loss up to the first $5.0 million per claim through an indemnity agreement with ACE. Nonetheless, ACE remains responsible for any claims BBSI is unable to satisfy. In addition, ACE continues to be BBSI&#146;s carrier for costs in excess of $5.0 million per claim. We transitioned all California-based clients and their employees to ACE policies prior to December 31, 2014 in compliance with SB 863. During 2015, we incurred increased costs associated with the fronted insurance program, as 2015 represented the first full year of complete coverage. 

Workers&#146; Compensation Claims Experience and Reserves 

We recognize our liability for the ultimate payment of incurred claims and claims adjustment expenses by accruing liabilities and establishing a reserve which represents our estimates of future amounts necessary to pay claims and related expenses with respect to work place injuries that have occurred. When a claim involving a probable loss is reported, our internal claims management personnel or our TPA establishes a case reserve for the estimated amount of ultimate loss. The estimate reflects a judgment based on established case reserving practices and the experience and knowledge of our claims management staff and the TPA regarding the nature and expected amount of the claim, as well as the estimated expenses of settling the claim, including legal and other fees and expenses of claims administration. The adequacy of such case reserves in part depends on the professional judgment of both our claims management staff and our TPA to properly and comprehensively evaluate the economic consequences of each claim. Our reserves include an additional component for IBNR (which includes) estimates for both future adverse loss development in excess of initial case reserves on open claims and incurred but not reported claims based on actuarial estimates provided by the Company&#146;s independent actuary. Our reserves also include future MCC fees. Our reserves do not include an estimated provision for the incidence of unknown or unreported catastrophic claims. 

As part of the case reserving process, historical data is reviewed and consideration is given to the anticipated effect of various factors, including known and anticipated legal developments, inflation and economic conditions. Reserve amounts are based on management&#146;s estimates, and as other data becomes available, these estimates are revised, which may result in increases or decreases in existing case reserves. Management&#146;s internal accrual process for workers&#146; compensation expense is based upon the immediate recognition of an expense and the related liability at the time a claim occurs; the value ascribed to the expense and liability is based upon our internal claims management and the TPAs&#146; estimate 

&#160; 

- 10 - 

of ultimate claim cost coupled with a provision for estimated future development based upon an actuarial review performed by our independent actuary. We believe our total accrued workers&#146; compensation claims liabilities at December 31, 2015 are adequate. It is possible, however, that our actual future workers&#146; compensation obligations may exceed the amount of our accrued liabilities, with a corresponding negative effect on future earnings, due to such factors as unanticipated adverse loss development of known claims and, to a much lesser extent, of claims incurred but not reported. 

We maintain clear guidelines for our area managers and risk management consultants, directly tying their continued employment to their diligence in understanding and addressing the risks of accident or injury associated with the industries in which client companies operate and in monitoring clients&#146; compliance with workplace safety requirements. 

Employees and Employee Benefits 

At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 103,250 total employees, including approximately 8,930 staffing services employees, approximately 93,750 employees under our client service agreements, 584 managerial, sales and administrative employees, and 4 executive officers. The number of employees at any given time may vary significantly due to business conditions at customer or client companies. We believe our employee relations are good. 

We offer various qualified employee benefit plans to our employees, including those employees for whom we are the administrative employer in a co-employment arrangement who so elect. Employees covered under a PEO arrangement may participate in our 401(k) plan at the sole discretion of the PEO client. All qualified staffing and management employee benefit plans include our 401(k) plan to which employees may enroll upon reaching 21 years of age and completing 1,000 hours of service in a 12 consecutive month period. We make matching contributions to the 401(k) plan under a safe harbor provision, which are immediately 100% vested. We match 100% of contributions by management and staffing employees up to 3% of each participating employee&#146;s annual compensation and 50% of the employee&#146;s contributions up to an additional 2% of annual compensation. We may also make discretionary contributions to the 401(k) plan, which vest over six years and are subject to certain legal limits, at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors. 

We also offer a cafeteria plan under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code; and group health, life insurance and disability insurance plans to qualified staffing and management employees. Generally, qualified employee benefit plans are subject to provisions of both the Internal Revenue Code and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (&#147;ERISA&#148;). In order to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code, qualified plans must be established and maintained by an employer for the exclusive benefit of its employees. 

In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the &#147;Acts&#148;) were signed into U.S. law. The Acts represent comprehensive U.S. healthcare reform legislation that, in addition to other provisions, subjects us to potential penalties unless we offer to our employees minimum essential healthcare coverage that is affordable. Because our PEO clients are considered to be the sole employer in the application of any rule or law included within the scope of the Acts, we do not offer health care coverage to the employees of our PEO clients. However, in order to 

&#160; 

- 11 - 

comply with the employer mandate provision of the Acts, we have begun offering health care coverage to all eligible staffing employees and management employees eligible for coverage under the Acts. Designating employees as eligible is complex, and is subject to challenge by employees and the Internal Revenue Service. While we believe we have properly identified employees, a later determination that we failed to offer the required health coverage to eligible employees could result in penalties that may materially harm our business. 

Regulatory and Legislative Issues 

We are subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions within which we operate, including those governing self-insured employers under the workers&#146; compensation systems in Oregon, Maryland, Delaware and Colorado, as well as in Washington for staffing and management employees. As a result of legislation in California related to our self-insurance program, we transitioned out of self-insurance in California into an insured program with ACE during 2014. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing our two wholly owned, fully licensed insurance companies in Arizona. While the specific laws and regulations vary among these jurisdictions, they typically require some form of licensing and often have statutory requirements for workplace safety and notice of change in obligation of workers&#146; compensation coverage in the event of contract termination. Although compliance with these requirements imposes some additional financial risk, particularly with respect to those clients who breach their payment obligation to us, such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our business to date. 

Our operations are affected by numerous federal and state laws relating to labor, tax and employment matters. Through our client services agreement, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities as the administrative employer under federal and state laws. Since many of these federal and state laws were enacted prior to the development of nontraditional employment relationships, such as professional employer, temporary employment, and outsourcing arrangements, many of these laws do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of nontraditional employers. In addition, the definition of &#147;employer&#148; under these laws is not uniform. 

As an employer, we are subject to all federal statutes and regulations governing our employer-employee relationships. Subject to the discussion of risk factors below, we believe that our operations are in compliance in all material respects with applicable federal statutes and regulations. 

Additional Information 

Our filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, periodic reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, are accessible free of charge at our website at http://www.barrettbusiness.com as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. By making this reference to our website, we do not intend to incorporate into this report any information contained in the website. The website should not be considered part of this report. 

The SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers with publicly traded securities, including the Company. 

&#160; 

- 12 - 

