 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

Background 

CyberOptics Corporation was founded in 1984 and is a leading global developer and manufacturer of high precision sensing technology solutions. Our headquarters are located at 5900 Golden Hills Drive in Golden Valley, Minnesota. Our website address is www.cyberoptics.com . You can access, free of charge, our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any other amendments to those reports, at our website, or at the Commission&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . Proxy materials for our upcoming 2016 annual shareholders meeting to be held on May 20, 2016 will be available electronically via the internet at the following address: http://www.idelivercommunications.com/proxy/cybe/. 

On March 14, 2014, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Laser Design, Inc. (LDI), a general purpose metrology company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota for aggregate consideration of $3.1 million cash, plus the assumption of certain current liabilities. LDI provides three-dimensional (3D) scanning solutions and services to the global general purpose metrology market. Global demand for 3D scanning is growing as this technology is deployed increasingly in markets ranging from automotive and aerospace to medical and consumer electronics. 

We are working to establish CyberOptics as a global leader in high precision 3D sensors. Our objective is to deliver profitable growth by leveraging our 3D technologies in our key vertical markets of surface mount technology (SMT), semiconductor and 3D scanning solutions and services. 

Our products and services are used in the SMT, semiconductor and 3D scanning solutions and services markets to significantly improve our customers' manufacturing yields and productivity, and to assist our customers in meeting their rigorous demands for manufacturing quality. Our products use a variety of proprietary technologies such as lasers, optics and machine vision, combined with software, electronics and mechanical design. Our SMT and semiconductor products enable manufacturers to increase production volume, product yields and quality by measuring the characteristics and placement of electronic components and semiconductor packages both during and after the assembly process, or by providing SMT electronic circuit board and semiconductor manufacturers with key metrics related to their manufacturing processes that allow them to improve production volumes and yields. Our 3D scanning solutions and services help manufacturers quickly solve their most complex 3D inspection, analysis and product engineering challenges, allowing them to improve product yields and quality. 

The majority of our products (60% of revenue in 2015 ) are developed and sold for use in SMT electronic circuit board assembly or with equipment used in SMT electronic circuit board assembly. We sell products in these markets both as sensor components that are incorporated into products manufactured by other companies for sale to circuit board assembly companies, and as complete stand-alone inspection systems that are sold directly to circuit board assembly companies. 

We manufacture 3D and 2D optical sensors for use in our own proprietary SMT inspection systems and for sale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in our key vertical markets and adjacent markets. Our SMT electronic assembly alignment sensor products are sold to manufacturers of pick-and-place machines to align electronic surface mount components during placement on the circuit board and to a solder paste screen printer company to align stencils with circuit boards. We also sell sensors to OEMs for solder paste inspection (SPI) systems, and more recently, high precision 3D sensors to KLA-Tencor for use in systems that inspect back-end semiconductor packaging. 

Our SMT inspection system products are sold to electronic manufacturing services (EMS) companies and other manufacturers of SMT electronic circuit boards to control quality as in-line systems. These products are used by manufacturers to measure screen printed solder paste, to inspect circuit boards and components after component placement, to confirm proper placement after full assembly of circuit boards and to inspect solder joints on printed circuit boards. Manufacturers of DRAM and Flash Memory also use our inspection system products to inspect assembly of their memory modules both before and after module singulation. 

Our semiconductor products assist with yield improvement and tool uptime in the semiconductor wafer fabrication process by providing highly accurate measurements of critical process factors. These measurements are impossible or very difficult to obtain without powering down the wafer fabrication equipment. Customers who use our products have better yields, through-put and tool up-time. Our products are more accurate when compared to the various manual techniques historically used by semiconductor manufacturers to obtain critical wafer fabrication process measurements. 

Our 3D scanning solutions capture surface data for product engineering and inspection. Our 3D scanning services scan, model and inspect objects of all sizes and complexity for customers who do not have their own general purpose metrology equipment. 

Recent Developments in the Business 

Our recent and planned product introductions are designed to strengthen our competitive position in our current markets and to expand into adjacent markets. We believe 3D inspection represents high-growth segments in both the electronic assembly and semiconductor markets. For this reason we are working to strategically reposition ourselves as a leading developer and manufacturer of high-precision 3D sensors. A key element in our strategic re-positioning is the development of new high precision 3D sensors based on our proprietary Multi-Reflection Suppression (MRS) technology. MRS technology inhibits reflections that can result in measurement inaccuracies, which is particularly critical for inspecting shiny objects. We believe that MRS is a break-through technology for optical inspection, with the potential to facilitate expansion of our markets in the future. 

For our existing markets in SMT, semiconductor inspection and 3D scanning solutions, we are introducing new products based on MRS technology that we believe present a significant opportunity for growth. Our 3D MRS technology has also been deployed in our new 3D automated optical inspection (AOI) system, the SQ3000, which is designed to expand our presence in markets requiring high precision inspection. In these markets, identifying defects has become highly challenging and critical due to smaller electronics packaging and increasing component density on circuit boards. We believe the combination of our MRS technology and sophisticated 3D fusing algorithms allows us to offer microscopic image quality at production speeds. We recognized our initial revenues from sales of the SQ3000 in the second quarter of 2015, and since the start of the fourth quarter of 2015 have received follow-on orders totaling approximately $4.7 million for the SQ3000 from a key customer. Our recent success and the competitive advantages offered by our MRS technology causes us to be very optimistic about the future sales potential of the SQ3000. 

LDI represents another aspect of our 3D strategy. We are incorporating our MRS technology into a new 3D scanning system, CyberGage360, that we believe will serve a wide range of inspection applications in the general purpose 3D metrology market. Beta testing for CyberGage360 commenced in the first quarter of 2016. We believe customer interest in this product is high, and we presently anticipate initial CyberGage360 sales in 2016. We believe the unique performance characteristics of MRS, which inhibit reflections and enable very accurate measurements at fast speeds, will give CyberGage360 a competitive advantage in the marketplace for 3D scanning systems. 

In February 2015 we entered into a mutually exclusive agreement to supply KLA-Tencor with high-precision 3D sensor subsystems for its back-end semiconductor packaging inspection systems. We also have entered into an agreement to supply Nordson Corporation (Nordson) with high-precision 3D sensor subsystems for the SMT market and have sold initial units for testing and demonstration purposes. The sensor subsystems are based on our new MRS technology. 

In addition to deploying MRS equipped 3D sensors in our key vertical markets of SMT, semiconductor and 3D scanning solutions and services, we intend to expand sales of this technology into adjacent markets that require high precision optical 3D inspection, including pursuing new OEM opportunities with our MRS technology. 

We also have committed funds to development of new products for inspecting memory modules. To date, we have received orders worth approximately $3.9 million from one of the world&#8217;s top four memory manufacturers for our newly-developed MX600 system that will inspect memory modules at the end of the production line after singulation. We recognized our first revenue from the sale of the MX600 system in the third quarter of 2015, and we had a backlog of MX600 orders at December 31, 2015 totaling approximately $3.4 million. 

We also have continued to invest in our WaferSense/ReticleSense product lines and have recently announced new offerings for advanced particle measurement and a line of multi-purpose sensors that measure leveling, vibration and humidity in an all-in-one wireless real-time device. 

Our ability to achieve our forecast and to implement our strategy effectively is subject to numerous uncertainties and risks, including the risks identified in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. 

OPERATIONS AND PRODUCTS 

We develop, manufacture and sell intelligent, non-contact sensors and systems for process control and inspection and, through LDI, for metrology applications and services. Our product offerings are sold to OEMs and end-user customers in the SMT circuit board assembly and semiconductor industries. Our OEMs incorporate our sensor offerings into capital equipment serving these industries. We also sell sensors and stand-alone inspection systems directly to end-users. We create value-added products by integrating LDI's proprietary software with sensors and other hardware purchased from third parties, and sell these products and complete metrology systems manufactured by third parties for use to create detailed, 3D digital maps of objects. These 3D digital images are used in manufacturing, 3D printing, and similar applications. Through LDI, we also provide services for 3D mapping for those customers who cannot justify the capital cost of a scanning project, or need services for special projects. 

Our principal products are used by manufacturers to increase operating efficiencies and yields, and to assist them in meeting rigorous demands for product quality. In addition to proprietary hardware designs that combine precision optics, various light sources and multiple detectors, our products incorporate software that controls the hardware and filters and converts raw data into application specific information. Our 3D scanning solutions and services help manufacturers quickly solve their most complex 3D inspection, analysis and product engineering challenges, allowing them to improve product yields and quality. 

Optical Sensors 

We manufacture high precision sensors for use in our own products in key vertical markets and for sale into adjacent markets, mainly through OEM relationships. Although most of our revenue from sensor sales has historically come from our alignment sensors, we began selling the sensor used in our SPI systems under an OEM agreement in 2011. We have integrated the new MRS 3D sensor technology into our own stand-alone products for 3D AOI and 3D scanning. We also sell 3D MRS sensor subsystems to OEMs for integration into their own proprietary stand-alone products. 

In February 2015 we entered into a mutually exclusive agreement to supply KLA-Tencor with high-precision 3D sensor subsystems for its back-end semiconductor packaging inspection systems. We also have entered into an agreement to supply Nordson with high-precision 3D sensor subsystems for the SMT market and have sold initial units for testing and demonstration purposes. The sensor subsystems are based on our new MRS technology. We intend to negotiate agreements for sale of these sensors to OEMs and end-users in other markets. We also have developed a strobe inspection module (SIM) that features extremely fast image acquisition and low false call rates in 2D applications. We use the SIM in our 2D AOI products and intend to sell it as a sensor kit. 

We believe that a strategy of developing and selling complete inspection systems and of refining the sensors and sensor subsystems that are part of these complete systems and selling them to OEM customers allows us to have direct end-user customer input as to the features of inspection systems that are most desired and purchased in our markets. At the same time, sales to OEMs allow us to capitalize on our strengths in optical physics and software implementations, such as noise suppression. We believe that the resulting sensor products and subsystems are unique and add significant value to the products of our OEM customers. 

SMT Electronic Assembly Alignment Sensors 

Our SMT electronic assembly alignment sensor products, which had generated the largest component of our sales until 2011, is a family of alignment sensors that are customized and incorporated into the equipment manufactured by our customers for use in SMT circuit board assembly. We work closely with our OEM customers to integrate sensors into their equipment. 

Sales of our SMT electronic assembly alignment sensor products, including service repairs, to Juki Corporation accounted for approximately 10% of our revenue in 2015 &#32;and 17% of our revenue in 2014 . Sales of these products, including service repairs, to Assembleon B.V. (acquired by Kulicke and Soffa Industries in January 2015) accounted for approximately 11% of our revenue in 2015 &#32;and 8% of our revenue in 2014 . Historically, our revenues and operations have been heavily influenced by the level of purchases from these two customers, reflecting their success in the market for pick-and-place machines, the cyclical nature of the SMT production industry and their ability to accurately forecast production requirements and need for our sensors. We anticipate that our future revenue and operations will be less dependent on these two customers, given the recent success we have had with sales of new MRS-enabled products, including the SQ3000 and 3D sensor subsystems, and the anticipated future sales of our new CyberGage360, 3D scanning system. 

LaserAlign&#174;. &#32;Our LaserAlign sensor family has accounted for the vast majority of our sales in the SMT electronic assembly alignment sensors product line. These sensors are primarily sold for incorporation into pick-and-place machines manufactured and sold by a number of different OEM customers for use in SMT production lines. 

The LaserAlign family of products aligns both large and extremely small surface mount and through-hole components, known as chip capacitors and resistors, during transport on a pick-and-place machine prior to placement. LaserAlign sensors are incorporated into the placement heads of pick-and-place machines to ensure accurate component placement at high production speeds. Various high-speed pick-and-place machines use between one and twenty LaserAlign sensors per machine. LaserAlign integrates an intelligent sensor, composed of a laser, optics and detectors with a microprocessor and software for making specific measurements. LaserAlign enables quick and accurate alignment of each component as it is being transported by the pick-and-place arm for surface mount or through-hole assembly. Using non-contact technology, LaserAlign facilitates orientation and placement of components at higher speeds than can be achieved using conventional mechanical or machine vision component centering systems. 

The LaserAlign sensor is offered in several different configurations to satisfy the requirements of the machines on which it is used. The latest version of the LaserAlign sensor technology was introduced in 2013 as a sixth generation sensor for Juki Corporation. Revenue from product shipments of LaserAlign sensors has been a principal contributor to revenue during the past five years and accounted for 14% of our revenue in 2015 &#32;and 20% of our revenue in 2014 . 

BoardAlign Camera (BA Camera) . &#32;The BA Camera, which is incorporated directly into the placement head of a pick-and-place machine, identifies fiducial markings on a circuit board and aligns the board in the pick-and-place machine prior to component placement. The BA Camera was first introduced in a sensor for Assembleon B.V. during 2003 and a second generation BA Camera, which was introduced in 2012, has been incorporated into the latest version of Assembleon B.V.&#8217;s component placement machine. Revenue from shipments of BA Camera sensors to Assembleon B.V. (acquired by Kulicke and Soffa Industries in January 2015) accounted for 6% of our revenue in 2015 &#32;and 5% in 2014 . 

InPrinter Inspection Camera. &#32;The InPrinter Inspection Camera, which is mounted directly in DEK brand screen printers manufactured by ASM Pacific Technology Ltd., is used to identify fiducial markings on a circuit board to ensure accurate board registration prior to placement of solder paste, as well as to provide an upgraded capability for 2D solder paste and stencil inspection. The InPrinter Inspection Camera was introduced for DEK brand screen printers during the third quarter of 2005. Revenue from shipments of the InPrinter Inspection Camera accounted for 5% of our revenue in 2015 &#32;and 4% in 2014 . 

3D Solder Paste Inspection (SPI) Sensors 

We manufacture custom designed 3D SPI sensors for use in our own family of SPI systems. We also sell our 3D SPI sensors to Viscom GmbH for use in their SPI platforms. Sales of 3D SPI sensors to Viscom accounted for less than 1% of our revenue in 2015 &#32;and less than 2% of revenue in 2014 . 

MRS Sensors for Semiconductor and SMT 

Although we have been focusing on development of the MRS sensor for application in the SMT industry, in January 2015, we entered into a mutually exclusive agreement with KLA-Tencor to supply MRS sensor subsystems for its back-end semiconductor package inspection systems. We also have entered into an agreement to supply Nordson with high-precision 3D sensor subsystems for the SMT market. Our high precision 3D sensors are based on commercially available cameras, DLP projectors and other hardware components, combined with our proprietary MRS technology and 3D fusing algorithms. The combination of these elements allows our sensor to capture, what we believe, are microscopic quality images, at production speeds. Revenue from shipments of high precision 3D MRS sensor subsystems accounted for 4% of our revenue in 2015. 

Strobe Inspection Modules (SIM) 

We also design and manufacture 2D sensors based on our strobe inspection module or SIM technology and proprietary Autonomous Image Interpretation (Ai 2 ) software for automated optical inspection. These sensors are based on a proprietary hardware design utilizing a strobed based lighting concept for extremely fast image acquisition. We deploy these sensors in our family of 2D AOI inspection systems which, we believe, offer an industry leading level of low false call performance, at fast in-line production speeds. We also utilize this technology in our newly-developed MX600 system for post-singulation inspection of memory modules. To date our use of the SIM technology has been limited to our own 2D AOI offerings for SMT. We intend to develop sensor kits based on our SIM technology that can be used for a variety of inspection tasks outside of traditional SMT applications, including inspecting for completeness and accuracy at end of line final assembly. 

SMT Inspection System Products 

Our SMT inspection system products are used in the SMT electronic assembly industry for process control and inspection. These systems are sold directly to end-user manufacturing customers that use them in a production line or along-side a production line to maintain process and quality control. Our products incorporate our proprietary 3D and 2D optical sensors, off the shelf, translation or robotics hardware and conveyors and complete computer systems or processors with internally developed software. 

Solder Paste Inspection (SPI) Products 

We have been selling in-line 3D solder paste measurement machines for over a decade and have continued to develop and evolve our SPI family of products since their introduction. 

SE600. &#32;The SE600 is an in-line system based on a dual-illumination sensor that measures in 3D the amount of solder paste applied to the circuit board after the first step of the SMT circuit board assembly process. Because of the small size of the components that must be placed on each pad of solder paste and the density of components placed on the circuit board, a significant amount of SMT assembly problems are related to the quality of solder paste deposition. Misplaced solder paste or excess or inadequate amounts of paste can lead to improper connections or bridges between leads causing an entire circuit board to malfunction. The SE600 inspects the height, area and volume of solder paste placed on an entire circuit board at production line speeds and with resolution that allows the SE600 to measure the smallest chip scale packages and micro ball array component sites. The SE600 can be integrated into most SMT production lines, providing real time quality control immediately after a printed circuit board leaves the screen printer and before component placement commences. 

SE500ULTRA. &#32;The SE500ULTRA is an in-line solder paste inspection system incorporating the same proprietary 3D inspection technology as the SE600, but with a single illumination sensor. The SE500ULTRA inspects at faster speeds than the SE600 and is intended for use in high-volume production environments. Because the SE500ULTRA prioritizes speed, it does not provide the same level of resolution and measurement performance as the SE600. 

Revenues from shipments of our SPI products accounted for 8% of our revenue in 2015 &#32;and 15% of our revenue in 2014 . 

Automated Optical Inspection (AOI) Products 

We have been selling AOI products for well over a decade and have continued to develop and evolve our AOI offerings since inception. These products inspect circuit boards after component placement to determine whether all components are present and have been placed correctly. AOI products can also be used to measure the quality of solder joints after reflow. 

SQ3000. Our first 3D AOI system, the SQ3000, is designed to expand our presence in markets requiring high precision inspection. Identifying defects on circuit boards has become highly challenging and critical due to smaller electronics packaging and increasing component density, combined with smaller and more complex solder joints. We believe the combination of our MRS technology and sophisticated 3D fusing algorithms allows us to offer microscopic image quality at production speeds. We recognized our initial revenues from sales of the SQ3000 in the second quarter of 2015, and since the start of the fourth quarter of 2015 have received follow-on orders totaling approximately $4.7 million for the SQ3000 from a key customer. Our recent success and the competitive advantages offered by our MRS technology causes us to be very optimistic about the future sales potential of the SQ3000. 

QX600 and QX150i . Our next generation 2D QX600 and QX150i AOI systems feature our SIM sensor technology and advanced Ai 2 &#32;software which, we believe, offer an industry leading level of low false call performance. We have invested in significant software enhancements for all of our AOI products that improve set-up and programming time and ease of use for the customer. Our QX600 is also available in versions that can accommodate dual production lanes and larger circuit board sizes. 

QX500 and QX100i . We market our 2D QX500 and QX100i AOI systems for production lines requiring faster inspection speeds. These products also feature our SIM sensor technology and advanced Ai 2 &#32;software. The QX500 and QX100i do not offer the resolution capability of the QX600 or QX150i, but instead were designed to provide the fastest AOI inspection times currently available in the market and also an industry leading level of low false call performance. The QX500 can also accommodate dual production lanes and larger circuit board sizes. 

MX600. &#32;O ur newly-developed MX600 system is based on our 2D SIM module and Ai 2 &#32;software technology and is used for post-singulation inspection of memory modules. To date, we have received orders worth approximately $3.9 million from one of the world&#8217;s top four memory manufacturers for our newly-developed MX600 system that will inspect memory modules at the end of the production line after singulation. We recognized our first revenue from the sale of the MX600 system in the third quarter of 2015, and we had a backlog of MX600 orders at December 31, 2015 totaling approximately $3.4 million. 

Revenues from shipments of our AOI products accounted for 20% of our revenue in 2015 &#32;and 19% of our revenue in 2014 . 

3D Scanning Solutions and Services 

LDI provides 3D scanning systems and services to the global general purpose metrology market. Global demand for 3D scanning, which digitally captures the shape of an object, is growing as this technology is deployed increasingly in markets ranging from automotive and aerospace to medical and consumer electronics. 

LDI's high end 3D scanners are sold either as kits or as complete systems that integrate LDI's proprietary Surveyor series software with coordinate measuring machines or articulated robotic arms manufactured by other companies. LDI also sells other types of 3D scanning equipment manufactured by other suppliers. Using its 3D scanners, LDI also provides services that scan, model and inspect objects of all sizes and complexity for customers who do not have their own 3D scanning equipment, or the in-house capability to scan complex parts. Revenue from sales of LDI's 3D scanning solutions and services accounted for 17% of our revenue in 2015 &#32;and 11% of our revenue in 2014 . 

One of the principal reasons for our acquisition of LDI was a high-speed 3D scanning system that it had developed. We are further enhancing this scanning system by integrating it with our new MRS technology. Beta testing for this new MRS equipped scanning system, CyberGage360, commenced in the first quarter of 2016. We believe customer interest in this product is high, and we presently anticipate initial CyberGage360 sales in 2016. We believe the unique performance characteristics of MRS which inhibit reflections and enable very accurate measurements at fast speeds, will give CyberGage360 a competitive advantage in the marketplace for 3D scanning systems. 

Semiconductor Products 

Our principal semiconductor products, the WaferSense &#174; &#32;and ReticleSense&#8482; family of products, are a series of wireless sensors that provide measurements of critical factors in the semiconductor fabrication process. We sell our semiconductor products to both OEM and end-user customers through a network of independent sales representatives. Sales of our semiconductor products constituted 19% of our revenue in 2015 &#32;and 16% of our revenue in 2014 . 

WaferSense/ReticleSense &#32; Sensors. &#32;We designed our WaferSense/ReticleSense family of sensors to go where wafers go in semiconductor fabrication and provide measurements of critical factors that are currently impossible or extremely difficult to obtain without powering down the fabrication process equipment. Because the user is not required to break down semiconductor fabrication equipment when using our WaferSense/ReticleSense products, significant time is saved and accuracy is increased compared to the manual techniques currently used by many customers when checking the process parameters measured by our WaferSense/ReticleSense products. As a result of WaferSense/ReticleSense technology, up-time, through-put and process yield for semiconductor fabrication equipment is improved. 

We introduced our first WaferSense product, the automatic leveling sensor (ALS), in late 2004 and have since continued to add new products to the WaferSense family. The ALS is a wireless, vacuum-compatible sensor that can be placed in cassettes, FOUPS, on end effectors, aligners, in load locks and process chambers used in semiconductor fabrication to ensure that all stations are level and coplanar. The automatic gapping sensor (AGS) is a gapping tool that measures the gap in three places between the shower head and pedestal in semiconductor process equipment. The automatic teaching sensor (ATS) measures X-Y-Z offset from robotic transfers of wafers to the pedestal in semiconductor process equipment. The amount of gap and offset after robotic transfer of wafers to the shower pedestal can affect film thickness and uniformity when material is deposited on semiconductor wafers, impacting quality and product yields. The automatic vibration sensor (AVS) measures X-Y-Z acceleration for shock and vibration, which can generate wafer particles, scratches or wafer breakage, thereby reducing yield. The automatic particle sensor (APS), allows engineers to efficiently detect and classify particles and their exact sources in a process as wafers are transferred, slit valves are actuated and chambers are cycled, pumped down and purged. APS is designed to be compatible with front-ends, coater/developer tracks, and deposition and etch equipment. 

In 2014, we expanded our particle sensing technology by launching a particle sensor in a reticle shaped form factor. The wireless, real-time capability of ReticleSense allows users to quickly identify geographic particle sources in reticle environments. In early 2015, we launched a ReticleSense Airborne Particle Sensor with a quartz housing (APSRQ) for use in semiconductor tools that handle quartz reticles. Designed and developed specifically for use with scanners in the semiconductor fabs, the ReticleSense APSRQ has all of the necessary alignment marks and bar codes for compatibility with ASML, Nikon and Canon scanners. The APSRQ can be loaded directly into a scanner and can travel the entire reticle path to detect in real-time when and where particles occur. By extending the line to include a quartz airborne particle sensor, we are helping our customers exceed manufacturing quality and productivity standards in the Photo Lithography scanner environment. 

We also have recently announced new offerings for advanced particle measurement and new WaferSense/ReticleSense Auto Multi Sensors (AMS/AMSR) that measure leveling, vibration and humidity in an all-in-one wireless real-time device. We intend to continue to enhance and expand the WaferSense/ReticleSense product lines in the future. 

Markets and Customers 

We sell the majority of our products into the SMT electronics assembly and memory manufacturing markets (60% of total revenue in 2015 ). The value of automation is high in these markets because the products produced have high unit costs and are manufactured at speeds too high for effective human intervention. Moreover, the trend toward smaller electronic devices with higher circuit densities, smaller circuit paths and extremely small components requires manufacturing and testing equipment capable of extremely accurate alignment and multidimensional measurement, which can be achieved using non-contact optical sensors. Trends in these markets include further efforts to reduce the cost of the manufacturing process, and to limit human intervention through automation. 

Our SMT electronic assembly alignment sensors are sold to OEMs serving the SMT circuit board assembly market. The vast majority of our 3D and 2D optical sensors are used in our own SPI and AOI system products that we sell to circuit board assembly manufacturers serving the electronics assembly market or to OEMs which manufacture their own circuit boards. Our AOI and SPI system sales occur in all global geographies. Our sales of inspection systems are more heavily concentrated in Asia where a significant portion of the worldwide production capacity for circuit board assembly occurs, and Europe where we have a strong sales channel. We manufacture all of our sensor products in our Minneapolis, Minnesota headquarters facility. All final assembly and integration for our inspection system products takes place in our Singapore facility. 

We sell our SMT sensor and inspection system products worldwide to many of the leading manufacturers of electronic circuit board assembly equipment, manufacturers of semiconductor DRAM and SSD memory and end-user electronic assembly manufacturers, including original design manufacturers (ODMs), EMS providers and outsourced semiconductor assembly and test (OSAT) companies, which manufacture cell phones, smart phones, notebook computers, server boards, and other electronic devices. We have sales and service offices in China and Singapore to serve the market for manufacturing production equipment in Asia. Our sales and service office in the United Kingdom serves the European market, and we have sales and service team members based in the United States to serve the Americas market. We have partnered with Viscom, a German distributor with significant sales to the automotive industry, to better penetrate the European market with our SPI sensors. We intend to expand our global sales and marketing efforts across all geographies. 

In January 2015, we qualified as a supplier to KLA-Tencor and entered into a mutually exclusive agreement to supply 3D sensor subsystems for KLA-Tencor's back-end semiconductor package inspection systems. We believe that our MRS technology is a breakthrough 3D inspection technology that can be deployed in a wide range of markets, including the semiconductor market served by KLA-Tencor, and that selling sensor subsystems to leading manufacturers such as KLA-Tencor will allow us to reach these markets more effectively. We also have entered into an agreement to supply Nordson with high-precision 3D MRS sensor subsystems for the SMT market and have sold initial units for testing and demonstration purposes. The sensor subsystems are based on our new MRS technology. We believe our arrangement with Nordson will allow us to better penetrate the SMT market with our 3D MRS sensor offerings. 

Our semiconductor products, primarily consisting of the WaferSense and ReticleSense family of products, accounted for 19% of our revenue in 2015 . This market has many of the same characteristics as the SMT electronics assembly market and requires non-contact optical measurement tools that enable the production of more complex, higher density and smaller semiconductor devices. Our WaferSense/ReticleSense family of precision measurement tools for process optimization in semiconductor processing equipment is sold directly to semiconductor fabrication facilities or through semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers to semiconductor fabrication facilities. Our semiconductor products are used by process and equipment engineers during the production of semiconductor wafers. The world&#8217;s largest semiconductor manufacturers purchase our products. 

We sell our high end 3D scanning solutions and services directly in the United States and through a small channel of Asian based resellers. We intend to use the global distribution channel for our SMT inspection system products to sell the CyberGage360 3D scanning product that we plan to introduce in 2016. We support our sales efforts for 3D scanning products and services by utilizing an internet based search engine marketing program to generate leads from prospects who have expressed interest in obtaining these types of products and services. 

Export sales represent a large percentage of our total sales because a large portion of the global capacity for electronics assembly and semiconductor production occurs outside the United States. In addition, a significant portion of our export sales include SMT electronic assembly alignment sensors and 3D MRS sensors sold to OEM customers located in Europe and Asia. 

The following table sets forth the percentage of total sales revenue represented by total export sales (sales for delivery to countries other than the United States, including sales delivered through distributors) by location during the past two years: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

December 31, 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Asia 

&#160; 

% 

&#160; 

% 

Europe 

&#160; 

% 

&#160; 

% 

Other export sales (1) 

&#160; 

% 

&#160; 

% 

(1) Includes export sales in the Americas, primarily Canada, Mexico and Latin America. 

See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Most of our international export sales are negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars. We manufacture our SMT system products in Singapore and a portion of our raw material purchases are denominated in Singapore dollars. We also have R&#38;D and sales personnel located in Singapore and sales offices located in other parts of the world. Although currency fluctuations do not significantly affect our revenue, they can impact our costs and influence the price competitiveness of our products and the willingness of existing and potential customers to purchase the products. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our SMT alignment and 3D high precision MRS sensors for back-end semiconductor packaging and the SMT inspection systems market are sold to large OEM customers by a direct sales staff located in Minnesota. Our stand-alone SMT inspection system products for end-user customers are primarily sold through independent representatives and distributors managed by direct sales personnel located in Singapore, as well as in the United Kingdom, the U.S. and China. We have agreements with 40 independent representatives and distributors which focus on sales and service of our stand-alone system products to end-user customers. These agreements cover North and South America (12), Europe (16) and China and the rest of Asia (12). 

We have established a separate worldwide sales representative organization for our WaferSense and ReticleSense semiconductor products. We currently have agreements in place or in process with sales representatives in the U.S. (3), Europe (3) and the Pacific Rim (6). In some cases we sell our WaferSense and ReticleSense products directly to large OEM customers. Our independent sales representatives and sales to OEM customers are managed by direct sales personnel located in the U.S. and Asia. 

We sell 3D scanning solutions and services through a direct sales staff located in Minnesota, and three resellers located in Asia. We intend to sell our CyberGage360 product by using the same independent sales representatives and distributors which sell our SPI and AOI system products. 

We market our products through appearances at industry trade shows, advertising in industry journals, articles published in industry and technical journals and on the Internet. In addition, we have strategic relationships with certain key customers that serve as highly visible references. 

Backlog 

Product backlog was $15.0 million at December 31, 2015, compared to $5.9 million at December 31, 2014 . Our products are typically shipped two weeks to two months after the receipt of an order. Sales of some SMT inspection system products may require customer acceptance due to performance or other acceptance criteria included in the terms of sale. For these SMT product sales, revenue is recognized at the time of customer acceptance. Although our business is generally not of a highly seasonal nature, sales may vary based on the capital procurement practices in the SMT electronics assembly, general industrial manufacturing and semiconductor fabrication industries. For example, production capacity expansion in the SMT electronics assembly industry for anticipated holiday or back to school demands can result in higher levels of sales in our second and third quarters. However, we are not able to quantify with any level of precision, the impact of these events on our sales in any given quarterly period, and any seasonal cyclicality is often masked by more dramatic changes in demand caused by the normal volatility in electronics markets that is associated with changes in the economy. Our scheduled backlog at any time may vary significantly based on the timing of orders from OEM customers. Accordingly, backlog may not be an accurate indicator of performance in the future. 

Research and Development 

We differentiate our products primarily on the basis of customer benefits afforded by the use of innovative and proprietary technology and on our ability to combine several different technical disciplines to address industry and customer needs. In addition, we actively seek ongoing strategic customer relationships with leading product innovators in both our existing and new markets. We actively investigate the needs of, and seek input from, these customers to ensure adoption of current technologies and to identify opportunities to improve manufacturing processes. 

We commit substantial resources to the development of important next-generation technologies that, we believe, will position us to be a global technology leader in high precision 3D sensors and capture additional market share in our key vertical markets of SMT, semiconductor and 3D scanning solutions and services. We maintain our commitment to research and development and product development even during periods when demand in our markets is weak. During the past two years, research and development efforts have been focused on a number of activities that are critical to our future growth and success, including the following: 

&#8226; 

Development of our new MRS technology, a high speed metrology grade 3D measurement capability using commercially available components and proprietary algorithms that we believe will solve many of the reflecting issues impacting all triangulation sensor technologies. 

&#8226; 

Development of our first 3D AOI system, the SQ3000. This system is designed to expand our presence in markets requiring high precision measurement and inspection. Identifying defects on circuit boards has become highly challenging and critical due to smaller electronics packaging and increasing component density, combined with smaller and more complex solder joints. We believe the combination of our MRS technology and sophisticated 3D fusing algorithms offers microscopic image quality at production speeds. We recognized our initial revenues from sales of the SQ3000 in the second quarter of 2015, and since the start of the fourth quarter of 2015 have received follow-on orders totaling approximately $4.7 million for the SQ3000 from a key customer. Our recent success and the competitive advantages offered by our MRS technology causes us to be very optimistic about the future sales potential of the SQ3000. 

&#8226; 

Development of our first system for post-singulation inspection of memory modules, the MX600. This system is based on our 2D SIM sensor technology and Ai 2 &#32;image recognition software. The inspection requirements for this system are similar to AOI requirements for circuit board production. We recognized our first revenue from the sale of the MX600 system in the third quarter of 2015, and we had a backlog of MX600 orders at December 31, 2015 totaling approximately $3.4 million from one of the world&#8217;s top four memory manufacturers. We believe the MX600 system offers &#32;superior speed, inspection performance and a low level of false calls. 

&#8226; 

Development of a new 3D scanning system, CyberGage360, which incorporates our new MRS technology. We believe this system will be used to inspect and measure a wide range of components and manufactured parts in the general industrial market. Beta testing for CyberGage360 commenced in the first quarter of 2016. We believe customer interest in this product is high, and we presently anticipate initial CyberGage360 sales in 2016. We believe the unique performance characteristics of MRS that inhibit reflections and enable very accurate measurements at fast speeds, will give CyberGage360 a competitive advantage in the marketplace for 3D scanning systems. 

&#8226; 

Continued development of our WaferSense/ReticleSense line of products by introducing a particle sensor in a reticle shaped form factor (ReticleSense&#8482;) and a ReticleSense Airborne Particle Sensor with a quartz housing (APSRQ) for use in semiconductor tools that handle quartz reticles. We also have announced new offerings for advanced particle measurement and new WaferSense/ReticleSense AMS and AMSR that measure leveling, vibration and humidity in an all-in-one wireless real-time device. 

Research and development expenses were $7.6 million in 2015 &#32;and $8.8 million in 2014 . These amounts represent 18% of revenue in 2015 &#32;and 19% in 2014 , and include LDI research and development expenses since the date of acquisition. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, project materials, contract labor and other costs associated with ongoing product development and enhancement efforts. Research and development resource utilization is centrally managed based on market opportunities and the status of individual projects. 

Manufacturing 

All of our 3D and 2D optical sensors, SMT alignment sensors and WaferSense/ReticleSense semiconductor sensor products are assembled at our Minneapolis, Minnesota headquarters facility. Our SMT inspection system products are assembled in Singapore. Much of our product manufacturing, which is primarily circuit board manufacturing, lens manufacturing and metal parts production, is contracted with outside suppliers. Our production personnel inspect incoming parts, perform final assembly, calibrate and perform final quality control testing of finished products. Our products are not well suited for the large production runs that would justify the capital investment necessary for complete internal manufacturing. 

A variety of components used in our products are available only from single sources and involve relatively long order cycles, in some cases over one year. We believe we have identified alternative assembly contractors for most of our sub-assemblies. Use of those alternative contractors could require substantial rework of the product designs, resulting in periods during which we could not satisfy customer orders. An actual change in such contractors would likely require a period of training and testing. Accordingly, an interruption in a supply relationship or the production capacity of one or more of such contractors could result in the inability to deliver one or more products for a period of several months. To help prevent delays in the shipment of our products, we maintain in inventory, or on scheduled delivery from suppliers, components that we believe will be sufficient to meet forecast demand (our forecast extends a minimum of 6 months). 

Competition 

We face competition from a number of companies in the machine vision, image processing and inspection systems market, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources. 

Our 3D and 2D optical sensors and SMT electronic assembly alignment sensors primarily compete with the sensors and vision systems developed by OEMs using their own design staff for incorporation into their products. We believe our high precision 3D sensors based on our MRS technology are unique in the marketplace based on the ability to offer microscopic quality images at fast production line speeds. Our 2D SIM sensors and SMT electronic assembly alignment sensor products also compete with vision (camera and software based) systems and component libraries available from Cognex Corporation and others. Although advances in vision systems have reduced some of the advantages of our SMT electronic assembly alignment sensor products in some configurations, we continue to believe that our sensors compete favorably based on our ability to custom design products with stringent physical form requirements, speed, flexibility, low cost and ease of use. 

The primary competition for sales of our SPI and AOI systems has been from Korean based companies, including Koh Young Technology, MirTec Ltd., and Parmi (SPI). We also compete with Taiwanese based Test Research, Inc. and German based Viscom, among others. Sales of AOI systems account for roughly two-thirds of the approximate $500 million total SPI/AOI inspection systems market, with 3D AOI representing the fastest growing segment of this market. We believe our 2D SIM and 3D MRS sensor technology and the Ai 2 &#32;software used in our QX and SQ family of products is differentiated from the competition and that these products compete effectively in the AOI market based on cost, ease of use at rapid production line speeds and the low rate of false calls. We believe that our new SQ3000 3D AOI offering, enabled by our proprietary MRS technology and 3D fusing algorithms, is differentiated and will allow us to gain market share based on our ability to offer microscopic quality images at production line speeds. 

The approximate $1.0 billion plus market for 3D scanning solutions and services is highly fragmented. The primary competition for our 3D scanning solutions include CMM based products from Zeiss and others, articulated robotic arm products from Faro and assorted other 3D measurement technologies offering varying combinations of speed and accuracy. The market for 3D scanning services is dominated by small regional market participants. We believe the unique performance characteristics of MRS that inhibit reflections, particularly critical for shiny objects, and enable extremely accurate measurements at high speeds, will give CyberGage360 a competitive advantage in the portion of the market that prioritizes these performance characteristics. 

We believe our WaferSense and ReticleSense products are unique to the marketplace and primarily face competition from the manual techniques currently used by most customers to monitor their semiconductor fabrication equipment. Because the user is not required to break down semiconductor fabrication equipment, or pressurize a vacuum chamber, we believe that our WaferSense/ReticleSense products save significant time and increase measurement accuracy over the manual techniques currently used by customers and that these products improve tool up-time, through-put and process yield. 

We believe our current and planned products offer advantages in terms of price and suitability for specific applications. Although we have attempted to protect the proprietary nature of such products, it is possible that any of our products could be duplicated by other companies in the same general markets in which we participate. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 154 full-time employees worldwide, including 36 in sales, marketing and customer support, 55 in manufacturing, purchasing and production operations, 48 in engineering, research and development, and 15 in finance, administration and information services. Of these employees, 86 are located at our corporate headquarters in Minneapolis, Minnesota, 22 are located at LDI&#8217;s facility in Bloomington, Minnesota and 46 are located in other offices (5 in the United Kingdom, 1 in Oregon, 1 in California, 31 in Singapore, 4 in China, 2 in Taiwan, 1 in Japan and 1 in Korea). To date, we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified technical personnel, although there can be no assurance that this success will continue. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of a union. 

Proprietary Protection 

We rely on the technical expertise and know-how of our personnel and trade secret protection, as well as on patents, to maintain our competitive position. We attempt to protect intellectual property by restricting access to proprietary methods by a combination of technical and internal security measures. In addition, we make use of non-disclosure agreements with customers, consultants, suppliers and employees. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that any of the above measures will be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. 

We hold 57 patents (34 U.S. and 23 foreign) on a number of technologies, including those used in our 3D optical sensors, MRS technology, LaserAlign products, SIM sensor technology, inspection systems, WaferSense/ReticleSense products, CyberGage360 3D scanning system and other products. Some of the patents relate to equipment such as pick-and-place machines into which our products are integrated. In addition, we have 16 pending patents (6 U.S. and 10 foreign). We protect the proprietary nature of our software primarily through copyright and license agreements, but also through close integration with our hardware offerings. We utilize 18 registered trademarks (11 U.S. and 7 foreign) and have 8 trademark registrations pending (1 U.S. and 7 foreign). We also have 14 domain names and several common law trademarks. It is our policy to protect the proprietary nature of our new product developments whenever they are likely to become significant sources of revenue. No guarantee can be given that we will be able to obtain patent or other protection for other products. 

As the number of our products increases and the functionality of those products expands, we may become increasingly subject to attempts to duplicate our proprietary technology and to infringement claims. In addition, although we do not believe that any of our products infringe the rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future or that any such assertion will not require us to enter into a royalty arrangement or result in litigation. 

Government Regulation 

Many of our products contain lasers. Products containing lasers are classified as either Class I, Class II or Class IIIb Laser Products under applicable rules and regulations of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) of the Food and Drug Administration. Such regulations generally require a self-certification procedure pursuant to which a manufacturer must file with the CDRH with respect to each product incorporating a laser device, periodic reporting of sales and purchases and compliance with product labeling standards. Our lasers are generally not harmful to human tissue, but could result in injury if directed into the eyes of an individual or otherwise misused. We are not aware of any incident involving injury or a claim of injury from our laser devices and believe that our sensors and sensor systems comply with all applicable laws for the manufacture of laser devices. 

