 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

OVERVIEW 

LKQ Corporation ("LKQ" or the "Company") is a global distributor of vehicle products, including replacement parts, components and systems used in the repair and maintenance of vehicles, as well as specialty vehicle products and accessories. 

Buyers of vehicle replacement products have the option to purchase from primarily five sources: new products produced by original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"); new products produced by companies other than the OEMs, which are sometimes referred to as aftermarket products; recycled products obtained from salvage vehicles; used products that have been refurbished; and used products that have been remanufactured. We distribute a variety of products to collision and mechanical repair shops, including aftermarket collision and mechanical products, recycled collision and mechanical products, refurbished collision products such as wheels, bumper covers and lights, and remanufactured engines. Collectively, we refer to these products as alternative parts because they are not new OEM products. 

We are the nation&#8217;s largest provider of alternative vehicle collision replacement products and a leading provider of alternative vehicle mechanical replacement products, with our sales, processing, and distribution facilities reaching most major markets in the U.S. and Canada. We are also a leading provider of alternative vehicle replacement and maintenance products in the United Kingdom and the Benelux region (Belgium, Netherlands, &#38; Luxembourg) of continental Europe. In addition to our wholesale operations, we operate self service retail facilities across the U.S. that sell recycled automotive products from end-of-life-vehicles. With our 2014 acquisition of Keystone Automotive Holdings, Inc. (&#8220;Keystone Specialty&#8221;), we are also a leading distributor of specialty vehicle products and accessories reaching most major markets in the U.S. and Canada. 

We are organized into four operating segments: Wholesale - North America; Europe; Specialty; and Self Service. We aggregate our Wholesale - North America and Self Service operating segments into one reportable segment, North America, resulting in three reportable segments: North America, Europe and Specialty. See Note 13, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for financial information by reportable segment and by geographic region. 

HISTORY 

LKQ was initially formed in 1998 through the combination of a number of wholesale recycled products businesses located in Florida, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin. We subsequently expanded through internal development and over 220 acquisitions of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished, and remanufactured product suppliers and manufacturers; self service retail businesses; and specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories suppliers. Our most significant acquisitions include: 

&#8226; 

2007 acquisition of Keystone Automotive Industries, Inc., which, at the time of acquisition, was the leading domestic distributor of aftermarket products, including collision replacement products, paint products, refurbished steel bumpers, bumper covers and alloy wheels. 

&#8226; 

2011 acquisition of Euro Car Parts Holdings Limited ("ECP"), a vehicle mechanical aftermarket parts distribution company operating in the United Kingdom. This acquisition allowed us to expand our operations into the European automotive aftermarket business. 

&#8226; 

2013 acquisition of Sator Beheer B.V. ("Sator"), a vehicle mechanical aftermarket parts distribution company based in the Netherlands, with operations in the Netherlands, Belgium and Northern France. This acquisition allowed us to further expand our geographic presence into continental Europe. 

&#8226; 

2014 acquisition of Keystone Specialty, which expanded our product offering and increased our addressable market to include specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories. 

&#8226; 

On December 22, 2015, LKQ announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire the holding company of Rhiag-Inter Auto Parts Italia S.p.A (&#8220;Rhiag&#8221;), a leading pan-European business-to-business distributor of aftermarket spare parts for passenger cars and commercial vehicles. Rhiag has operations in Italy, Czech Republic, Switzerland, Hungary, Romania, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Poland and Spain. The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2016 and is subject to customary closing conditions and necessary regulatory approvals. 

&#32;Further information regarding our acquisitions is included in Note 8, "Business Combinations" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

STRATEGY 

We are focused on creating economic value for our stockholders by enhancing our position as a leading source for alternative collision and mechanical repair products, and by expanding into other product lines and businesses that may benefit from our operating strengths. We believe a supply network with a broad inventory of quality alternative collision and 

mechanical repair products, specialty vehicle aftermarket products, high fulfillment rates, and superior customer service provides us with a competitive advantage. 

Other than OEMs, the competition in the markets that we serve is extremely fragmented and the supply of products tends to be localized, often leading to low fulfillment rates, particularly with recycled products. In North America, the distribution channels for aftermarket and refurbished products have historically been distinct and separate from those for recycled and remanufactured products despite serving the same customer segment. We provide value to our customers by bringing these two channels together to provide a broader product offering and more efficient distribution process. 

To execute our strategy in North America, we have expanded our network of parts warehouses and dismantling plants in major metropolitan areas and employ a distribution system that allows for order fulfillment from regional warehouses located across the U.S. and Canada. By increasing local inventory levels and expanding our network to provide timely access to a greater range of parts, we have increased fulfillment rates beyond the levels that we believe most of our competitors realize, particularly for recycled products. 

In our European operations, we will continue to develop our existing branch networks in the U.K. and Benelux markets and add locations where needed. In the U.K., we have undertaken a major project to expand our distribution capabilities in Tamworth. This project is expected to be completed in 2018. Between now and completion, we will incur some duplicate operating and other start-up costs, which may be material, as a result of having multiple warehouses during the build out phase. In the Benelux markets, we will continue the integration of the distributor acquisitions we have completed in that market and look for further expansion opportunities. We continue to look for opportunities to lever our growing presence in Europe through reduced cost of goods purchased and a lower total cost structure. Over time we anticipate further integration of our European operations as we optimize purchasing, cataloging, logistics and back-office functions. Assuming we are successful in our acquisition of Rhiag, we expect to follow similar strategies in its respective markets. 

Sources of high quality, reliable alternatives to OEM products are important to insurance companies and to our direct customers as they seek to control repair costs. Lower parts costs and quicker completion of orders save money and reduce repair times. We believe that we provide customers (and indirectly, insurance companies) with a value proposition that includes high quality products at a lower cost than new OEM products, extensive product availability due to our expansive distribution network, responsive service, and quick delivery. The breadth of our alternative parts offerings allows us to serve as a "one-stop" solution for our customers looking for the most cost effective way to provide quality repairs. In order to execute this strategy and build on our progress thus far, we will continue to seek to expand into new markets, and to improve penetration both organically and through acquisitions. 

Similarly in our Specialty operations, the supplier base for the specialty vehicle aftermarket parts and accessories market is highly fragmented, typically consisting of suppliers that are small to medium-sized, independent businesses that focus on a narrow product or market niche. While our Specialty operations had an extensive distribution network already in place, we integrated the distribution network for our North American and Specialty operations to create synergies and efficiencies with our existing infrastructure. We believe this provides added value to our customers through a broader product offering and more efficient distribution process. 

Extensive in-place network 

We have invested significant capital to develop a network of alternative parts facilities across our operating segments. We believe our extensive network gives us a distinct ability to benefit the major automobile insurance companies, which are generally operated on a national or regional level. Additionally, the difficulty and time required to obtain proper zoning, as well as dismantling and other environmental permits necessary to operate newly-sited recycled parts facilities, would make establishing a new network of recycled parts locations a challenge for a competitor. There are also difficulties associated with recruiting and hiring an experienced management team that has strong industry knowledge. 

We are attempting to utilize a similar strategy in Europe with our acquisitions of ECP, Sator and certain of Sator's distributors. These companies have a national presence in their respective countries, and we are working to integrate the operations to take advantage of shared procurement, warehousing and product offerings. 

Strong business relationships 

We have developed business relationships with key constituents, including automobile insurance companies, suppliers and other industry participants in North America, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands. Insurance companies, as payers for most collision repairs, help drive demand, and take active roles in the selection of alternative replacement products for vehicle repairs in order to minimize the repair portion of the claims costs and reduce repair time. The use of our products lowers the cost of repairs, decreases the time required to return the repaired vehicle to the customer, and provides a replacement product that is of high quality and comparable performance to the part replaced, all of which are favorable to insurance companies. 

Because of their importance to the process, we have formed relationships with certain insurance companies in North America for which we are designated a preferred products supplier. 

Within our North American Segment, we provide quality assurance programs that offer additional product support to automobile insurance companies. These product support programs identify specific subsets of aftermarket products by vendor and product type that can be used in the repair of vehicles that these companies insure. The programs typically offer aftermarket products that have been produced by manufacturers certified by a third party testing lab. We may provide additional validation of the quality of the products beyond our standard warranties, and identification details that make the products traceable back to a manufacturer's specific production run. 

Broad product offering 

The breadth and depth of our inventory across all of our operating segments reinforces LKQ's ability to provide a "one-stop" solution for our customers' alternative vehicle replacement, maintenance, and specialty vehicle product needs. Customers place a high value on the availability of a broad range of vehicle replacement products. Historically, in our North American operations, we have been able to provide the collision and mechanical repair industry with premium products at costs typically 20% to 50% below new OEM replacement products. The availability of alternative products means that vehicles can be repaired with lower parts costs, and in some instances, reduced labor costs. In fact, many insurance companies in North America will not authorize the use of higher cost, new OEM replacement products if alternative products are available because the use of alternative products provides insurers a method to manage and reduce total repair costs. Some insurance companies designate us as a preferred supplier for their affiliated repair shops because of our ability to provide these products. With our distribution network and extensive range of products, we believe we are the only supplier that is able to support the insurance industry in this manner. We leverage this same distribution network to provide a broad offering of specialty vehicle aftermarket products and accessories used to customize or enhance the performance, handling or appearance of new or used vehicles. Additionally, we believe we are well-positioned in Europe to continue developing our distribution network of a broad offering of vehicle replacement products to support mechanical repair shops in that market. 

High fulfillment rates 

We manage local inventory levels to improve delivery time and maximize customer service. Improving local order fulfillment rates reduces transfer costs and delivery times, and improves customer satisfaction. Our ability to move inventory throughout our distribution networks increases the availability of our products and also helps us to fill a higher percentage of our customers' requests. 

We deploy inventory management systems at our facilities that are similar to those used by other leading distribution companies. For example, we make extensive use of bar code technology and wireless data transmission to track parts from the time a vehicle or product arrives at a facility to its placement on a truck for delivery to the customer. With this real-time information, we are able to actively monitor inventory levels throughout our distribution channels. 

Technology driven business processes 

We focus on technology development as a way to support our competitive advantage. We believe that we can more cost effectively leverage our data to make better business decisions than our smaller competitors. We continue to develop our technology to better manage and analyze our inventory, assist our salespeople with up-to-date pricing and availability of our products, and further enhance our inventory procurement process. 

We employ proprietary methodologies and information systems to help us identify high demand wholesale aftermarket and recycled products. Our aftermarket inventory systems track products sold and sales lost due to a lack of inventory, and make purchase recommendations based on this information. The inventory systems also recommend purchases and transfers based on the extent and location of demand, as well as other replenishment factors. When we procure aftermarket products or refurbish collision replacement products such as wheels, bumper covers and lights, we focus on products that are in the most demand at all levels of the automotive parts value chain including the professional repair market, the jobber market and the general insured repair market. Because lead times may take 40 days or more on imported products, sales volume and in-stock inventory are important factors in the procurement process. We use historical sales records of vehicles by model and year to estimate the demand for our products. We also analyze new vehicle designs that are expected to come to market to assure that we are working with suppliers to project future supply and demand trends. Combining this information with proprietary data that aggregate customer requests for products, we are able to source aftermarket products and salvage vehicles at prices that we believe will allow us to sell products profitably. 

In Europe, we use a number of systems to manage our business. These systems assist with our purchasing, inventory management, order fulfillment, logistics, and other business functions at each location. Our systems allow customers to review our inventory and make purchases, and in many cases assist our customers with locating the appropriate part for repairs. 

In our Specialty operations, we believe a focus on technology allows us to develop our business processes and enhance the customer experience. Our inventory forecasting systems help us ensure that the correct product is stocked in the right place to meet customer demand. Our warehousing and logistics systems help us deliver products to customers across the U.S. and Canada. Our online catalogs offer industry leading product information across all segments of automotive and recreational vehicle ("RV") aftermarket parts and accessories and allow customers to search, compare, and order products based upon the specifications of a vehicle. Furthermore, enhancements to our phone systems allow us to improve our customer support capability and the overall customer experience. 

NORTH AMERICA SEGMENT 

Wholesale Automotive Products 

Our wholesale automobile product operations in North America are organized by geographic regions serving the U.S. and Canada that sell all five product types (aftermarket, recycled, remanufactured, refurbished and OEM parts) to professional collision and mechanical automobile repair businesses. Our combined distribution channels for our alternative parts offerings leverage our facility and warehouse costs and improve local product availability by locating multiple product operations together. Our aftermarket product operations may include a combination of sales, warehousing and distribution functions, and in many cases will be co-located with our refurbishing operations. Our wholesale recycling operations typically have processing, sales, distribution and administrative operations on site, indoor and outdoor storage areas, and include a large warehouse with multiple bays to dismantle vehicles. Our engine remanufacturing operations are conducted primarily at our facilities in Mexico as well as the U.S., with sales, warehousing and distribution operations in the U.S. As of December 31, 2015, our North American wholesale operations conducted business from 348 facilities. 

Wholesale Aftermarket Products 

Our 2015 sales included more than 110,000 SKUs of aftermarket automotive products, excluding refurbished products, for the most common models of domestic and foreign automobiles and light trucks, primarily for the repair of vehicles three to twelve years old. Our principal aftermarket product types consist of those most frequently damaged in collisions, including bumper covers, automotive body panels and lights. We also distribute paint and other materials used in repairing damaged vehicles, including sandpaper, abrasives, masking products and plastic filler. The paint and other materials distributed by us are purchased from numerous suppliers in the U.S. and Canada. 

We expanded our wholesale aftermarket operations through the acquisition of PartsChannel, Inc. (&#8220;Parts Channel&#8221;) in July 2015. At the time of acquisition, Parts Channel was one of the leading domestic distributors of aftermarket products, including collision replacement products. 

Platinum Plus is our exclusive product line offered in the Keystone brand of aftermarket products. The Platinum Plus products are held to high quality standards and tested by quality assurance teams or independent third parties. We also developed a product line called "Value Line" for more value conscious, often self-pay, consumers. Our Value Line products offer quality products at reasonable prices, providing additional choices for repairs or rebuilding of vehicles. 

Certain of our products are certified by independent organizations such as the Certified Automotive Parts Association ("CAPA") and NSF International ("NSF"). CAPA and NSF are associations that evaluate the functional equivalence of aftermarket collision replacement products to OEM collision replacement products. Members of CAPA and NSF include insurance companies, product distributors (including LKQ), collision repair shops and consumers. CAPA and NSF develop engineering specifications for aftermarket collision replacement products based upon examinations of OEM products; certify the factories, manufacturing processes and quality control procedures used by independent manufacturers; and certify the materials, fit and finish of specific aftermarket collision replacement products. 

LKQ is certified under the NSF International Automotive Parts Distributor Certification Program, which addresses the needs of collision repair shops and insurers by maintaining quality management systems to address part traceability, service and quality. This certification program complements the existing parts certification program with NSF under which a broad range of automotive replacement parts are certified by NSF. Many major insurance companies have adopted policies recommending or requiring the use of products certified by CAPA or NSF. A number of CAPA and NSF certified products are also marketed under the Platinum Plus brand. 

Procurement of Inventory 

The aftermarket products we distribute are purchased from independent manufacturers and distributors located primarily in the U.S., Taiwan, and China. In 2015, approximately 29% of our aftermarket purchases were made from our top four vendors, with our largest vendor providing approximately 11% of our annual inventory purchases. We believe we are one of the largest customers of each of these suppliers. Outside of this group, no other supplier provided more than 5% of our supply of aftermarket products in 2015. We purchased approximately 54% of our aftermarket products in 2015 directly from 

manufacturers in Taiwan and other Asian countries. Approximately 45% of our aftermarket products were purchased from vendors located in the U.S. and Canada; however, we believe the majority of these products were manufactured in Taiwan, Mexico or other foreign countries. We have business arrangements with manufacturers to produce certain of our products. These agreements automatically renew for additional 12 month periods unless written notice is given. While we compete with other distributors for production capacity, we believe that our sources of supply and our relationships with our suppliers are satisfactory. 

We usually receive orders from domestic suppliers within ten days from the date ordered. Foreign orders typically are shipped in sea containers directly to certain of our aftermarket locations, and are received within 30 to 55 days from the date ordered. We operate an aftermarket parts warehouse in Taiwan that aggregates inventory from certain of our vendors for shipment to our North American locations. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 24 regional hubs and three distribution centers, which act as sources for our warehouse locations that do not receive containers directly and serve as redistribution centers for our operations. 

Wholesale Recycled Products 

Our recycled products include engines, transmissions, door assemblies, sheet metal products such as trunk lids, fenders and hoods, lights, and bumper assemblies. Some insurance companies mandate that the recycled products must be of the same model year or newer as the vehicle being repaired. As a result, the majority of the products we sell are from vehicles not more than ten years of age. Installing recycled products often means that collision shops not only save on product cost, but, because several products may come pre-assembled, the shops are also able to reduce labor costs. 

We strive to be environmentally responsible. Our recycled automotive products provide an alternative to the manufacture of new products, which would require the expenditure of more resources and energy and would generate additional pollution. In addition, we save landfill space because the parts that we recycle would otherwise be discarded. We also collect materials, such as metals, plastics, fuel and motor oil, from the salvage vehicles that we procure, and use them in our operations or sell them to other users. 

Procurement of Inventory 

We procure recycled products for our wholesale operations by acquiring severely damaged or totaled vehicles, and then dismantling and inventorying the parts. Vehicles that have been declared "total losses" typically are sold at regional salvage auctions throughout the U.S. and Canada. Salvage auctions charge fees both to the suppliers of vehicles, which are primarily insurance companies, and to the purchasers. Additionally, we typically pay third parties to tow the vehicles from the auction to our facilities. 

The availability and pricing of the salvage vehicles we procure for our wholesale recycled product operations may be impacted by a variety of factors, including the production level of new vehicles and the portion of damaged vehicles declared total losses. Over the past several years, the frequency with which vehicles are declared total losses has increased as a result&#184; we believe, of the rise in repair costs relative to vehicle replacement cost and salvage vehicle prices. In 2000, approximately 9% of accident claims resulted in a total loss; by 2014, this percentage increased to almost 14%, with more than 70% of these total losses being declared for vehicles aged seven years or older. Additionally, sales of new vehicles have increased since 2010 and are projected to continue to increase over the next 3 years, which should result in a greater volume of salvage vehicles at auction. 

In 2015, we acquired 287,000 salvage vehicles for our wholesale recycled product operations, primarily from salvage auctions. Prior to the scheduled auction date, our salvage buyers may preview the auctions online to investigate the vehicles to be sold and determine our interest in buying them. They obtain key information such as the model and mileage, and perform visual damage assessments to determine which parts on the targeted vehicles are recyclable. With the data from this preview, we deploy a bidding system that performs a valuation calculation for each vehicle. In order to recommend a maximum bid price, the calculation incorporates demand for a vehicle's recyclable parts, current inventory levels, average selling prices, auction costs, projected margins and instances of out-of-stock. Using this disciplined supply and demand procurement approach, we place bids on the targeted vehicles. 

Vehicle Processing 

Vehicle processing for our wholesale recycled operations involves dismantling a salvage vehicle into recycled products that are ready for sale. When a salvage vehicle arrives at our facility, an inventory specialist identifies, catalogs, and schedules the vehicle for dismantling. Prior to dismantling, we remove from each vehicle its battery, fluids, refrigerants, and parts containing hazardous substances or precious metals such as catalytic converters. The extracted fluids are stored in bulk and subsequently sold to recyclers. In the case of gasoline, the fuel retrieved is primarily used to power our delivery vehicles. A small portion of the recycled motor oil we collect is used at certain of our plants that have high-efficiency oil burning furnaces; the balance is sold to motor oil recyclers. 

When ready for dismantling, each vehicle has an inventory report that indicates to the dismantler which parts should be removed and placed in a warehouse for future sales to customers, which parts should be collected in bulk for our refurbishing and remanufacturing operations or for sale to parts remanufacturers, and which parts have value but should remain on the vehicle until sold. We utilize bar coding systems and wireless transmission to keep track of inventory from the time a product is removed and inventoried to the time it is sold and put on a truck for delivery. 

Refurbished and Remanufactured Products 

As of December 31, 2015, we operated 25 refurbishing facilities and 4 engine remanufacturing facilities. We refurbish products such as wheels, lights, plastic bumpers, and chrome bumpers. 

When identifying the products that we refurbish or remanufacture, we focus on products that have high demand. The majority of our refurbished and remanufactured products are processed from cores obtained from salvage vehicles purchased by our recycled operations, parts received in trade from customers purchasing replacement products from us, and cores collected by our route delivery drivers from vehicles under repair by our customers. These products are accumulated from our wholesale operations at our core sorting facilities, and are then either sent to our refurbishing or remanufacturing facilities or sold in bulk to other mechanical remanufacturers. 

Heavy-Duty Truck Products 

As of December 31, 2015, we operated a total of 25 heavy-duty truck facilities in the U.S. and Canada. Our inventory is composed of used heavy-duty trucks, usually at least five years old, which are purchased at salvage and truck auctions or directly from insurance companies or large fleet operators. During 2015, we purchased approximately 7,000 vehicles. Depending on the condition of the vehicles, they may be dismantled for parts or resold as running vehicles. If certain mechanical parts are damaged, such as transmissions, we may remanufacture them and offer them to our customers. The vehicles that are acquired for resale are typically special purpose or vocational use trucks such as those used for garbage pickup or cement delivery. If requested by the sellers of the vehicles, we provide assurance that the vehicles will be sold to foreign buyers and exported to countries for use outside of the U.S., or to domestic buyers after the vehicles have been reconditioned and modified for use other than their original purpose. 

Scrap and Other Materials 

Our wholesale recycled product operations generate scrap metal and other materials that we sell to recyclers. Vehicles that have been dismantled for recycled products and "crush only" end of life vehicles acquired from other companies, including OEMs, are typically crushed using equipment on site. In other cases, we will hire mobile crushing equipment to crush the vehicles before they are transported to shredders and scrap metal processors. Damaged and unusable wheel cores are melted in our aluminum furnace and sold to consumers of aluminum ingot and sow for the production of various automotive products, including wheels. We also extract and sell the precious metals contained in certain of our recycled parts such as catalytic converters. 

Customers 

We sell our products to wholesale customers that include collision and mechanical repair shops and new and used car dealerships, as well as to retail customers. Customers of our heavy-duty truck products may also include owner/operators, local cartage companies, or exporters. Most of our refurbished and remanufactured products are sold through our wholesale distribution channels. The balance is sold to retail automotive stores, wholesale distributors and via internet sales. We also generate a portion of our revenue from scrap sales to metal recyclers. No single customer accounted for 2% or more of our revenue in 2015. 

Repair Shops and Others 

We sell the majority of our wholesale products to collision and mechanical repair shops. Industry reports estimate there were approximately 41,000 collision repair shops, including those owned by new car dealerships, in the U.S. in 2014. The same reports estimate there were approximately 79,000 general (including mechanical) repair garages, excluding new car dealership service departments, in the U.S. in 2014. The majority of these customers tend to be individually-owned small businesses, although the number of independent and dealer-operated collision repair facilities has declined over the last decade, as regional or national multiple location operators have increased their geographic presence through acquisitions. We also sell our products to car rental companies and fleet management groups. 

Insurance Companies 

Automobile insurance companies affect the demand for our collision products. While insurance companies do not pay for our products directly, they ultimately pay for the repair costs of insured vehicles in excess of any deductible amount. As a result, insurance companies often influence the types of products used in a repair. 

Our presence in most major markets in the U.S. and Canada gives us a distinctive ability to benefit the major automobile insurance companies. Insurance companies generally operate at a national or regional level. The use of our products provides a direct benefit to these companies by lowering the cost of repairs, decreasing the time required to return the repaired vehicle to the customer, and providing a replacement product that is of high quality and comparable performance to the part replaced. 

We assist insurance companies by providing high quality aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured products to collision repair shops, especially to repair shops that are part of an insurance company's Direct Repair Program ("DRP") network. A repair shop participating in a DRP is referred potential work from the insurance company in exchange for providing assurances to the insurance company of quality, timeliness, and cost. Industry reports indicate that over half the claims paid for by top insurance companies in 2012 were paid through a DRP, compared to 42% in 2009. To meet the needs of the DRPs, professional repairers have been required to become fluent in claims handling. We offer our repair shop customers access to our proprietary system, Keyless, which provides a link between their estimating systems and our inventory to identify the availability of alternative products for use in their repair. This data also helps insurance companies monitor the body shops' compliance with their DRP product guidelines that might, for instance, stipulate the use of the lowest cost products that meet quality specifications. In addition, in some markets insurance companies are able to dispose of low value total loss vehicles directly to us so they can save the transaction fees associated with selling these vehicles through salvage auctions. 

Sales and Marketing 

In the case of repairs paid for as a result of insurance claims, which industry publications estimate are approximately 85% of all repairs, insurance companies give collision repair shops information as to what type of replacement products are eligible for reimbursement. Typically insurance carriers have established a hierarchy or decision tree prioritizing the types of products to be used for repairs. As an example, a protocol may require recycled products if available; if recycled products are not available, then refurbished products; and, if recycled or refurbished products are not available, aftermarket products. If none of these alternative product types is available, the shop may then use new OEM replacement products. Once the estimated repair cost is determined, the body shop will begin its search for required products. The sourcing of products typically begins with a call to one of our recycled operations or one of our competitors. Our recycled sales personnel are encouraged to capture the sale as a "one-stop shop" and, if recycled products are out of stock, to fill orders from our refurbished or aftermarket product inventory. To support these efforts, we have provided our sales staff with access to both recycled and aftermarket sales systems, and we have developed sales incentive programs that encourage cross selling throughout our wholesale operations. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 2,300 full-time sales staff in our North American wholesale operating segment. The full time sales personnel are located at sales desks at our facilities or at one of the regional call centers we operate. We deploy a call routing system that redirects overflow calls to alternative call centers, typically located within the same region. We also operate two other call centers, one to support national accounts, and the other to support insurance adjusters' needs and questions. Our sales personnel are encouraged to initiate outbound calls in addition to the inbound calls they handle. Our sales staff can use customer estimates from our Keyless estimating system to generate sales leads for both aftermarket and recycled products. 

We are continually reviewing and revising the pricing of wholesale products. Our pricing specialists consider factors such as recent demand levels, inventory quantity on hand and turnover rates, new OEM product prices and local competitive pricing, with the goal of optimizing revenue. We set list prices and then sell items at a discount to list, with the discount typically based on each customer's purchasing volume. We may adjust prices during the year in response to material price changes of new OEM replacement products. 

We believe our commitment to stock inventory in local warehouses, supplemented by the inventory sharing system within our regional trading zones, improves our ability to meet our customers' requirements more frequently than our competitors and gives us a competitive advantage. 

Distribution 

We have a distribution network of 348 wholesale plants and warehouses across the U.S. and Canada as of December 31, 2015, of which 66 function as cross dock facilities. Our network of facilities allows us to develop and maintain our relationships with local repair shops while providing a level of service that is made possible by our nationwide presence. Our local presence allows us to provide daily deliveries as required by our customers, using drivers who routinely deliver to the same customers. Our sales force and local delivery drivers develop and maintain critical personal relationships with the local repair shops that benefit from access to our wide selection of products, which we are able to offer as a result of our regional inventory network. 

We have developed an internal distribution network to allow our sales representatives to sell our products within regional trading zones, thus improving our ability to fulfill customer requests and accelerating inventory turnover. Each weekday we operate approximately 310 transfer runs between our cross dock facilities and our plants and warehouses within 

our regional trading zones to redistribute our alternative products for delivery on the next day. In addition, we have over 2,900 local delivery routes serving our customers each weekday. 

Each sale results in the generation of a work order at the location housing the specific product. A dispatcher is then responsible for ensuring fulfillment accuracy, printing the final invoice, and including the product on the appropriate truck route for delivery to the customer. In markets where we offer more than one alternative product type, we are integrating the delivery of multiple product types on the same delivery routes to help minimize distribution costs and improve customer service. We operate a delivery fleet of medium-sized trucks and smaller trucks and vans. Over time, we expect that our delivery vehicles will become more consistent as we reconfigure the fleet to include vehicles that can carry all five product types. 

Competition 

We consider all suppliers of vehicle collision and mechanical products to be competitors, including aftermarket suppliers, recycling businesses, refurbishing operations, parts remanufacturers, OEMs and internet-based suppliers. We believe the principal areas of differentiation in our industry include availability of inventory, pricing, product quality and service. 

The aftermarket product distribution business is highly fragmented and our competitors, other than OEMs, are generally independently owned distributors with one to three distribution centers. Similarly, we compete with domestic vehicle product recyclers, most of which are single-unit operators. In some markets, smaller competitors have organized affiliations to share marketing and distribution resources, including internet sites. We compete with alternative parts distributors on the basis of our nationwide distribution system, our product lines and inventory availability, customer service, our relationships with insurance companies, and to a lesser extent, price. We do not consider retail chains that focus on the do-it-yourself market to be our direct competitors since many of our wholesale product sales are paid for by insurance companies rather than the end user. 

Manufacturers of original equipment products sell the majority of automobile collision replacement products. We believe, however, that the insurance and repair industries recognize advantages of using aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured products for collision repairs. Industry sources estimate that alternative collision parts usage in the U.S. ranged between approximately 36% and 37% during 2015. We compete with OEMs primarily on the basis of price and, to a lesser extent, on service and product quality. 

Self Service Retail Products 

Our self service retail operations sell parts from older cars and light-duty trucks directly to consumers. In addition to revenue from the sale of parts, core, and scrap, we charge a nominal admission fee to access the property. Our self service facilities typically consist of a fenced or enclosed area of several acres with vehicles stored outdoors and a retail building through which customers are able to access the yard. As of December 31, 2015, we conducted our self service operations from 78 facilities in North America, most of which operate under the name "LKQ Pick Your Part." 

Inventory 

We acquire inventory for our self service retail product operations from a variety of sources, including but not limited to towing companies, auctions, the general public, municipality sales, insurance carriers, and charitable organizations. We typically procure salvage vehicles that are more than seven model years old for our self service retail product operations. These vehicles are generally older and of lower quality than the salvage vehicles we purchase for our wholesale recycled product operations. Using our new car buying system implemented in 2015, we have streamlined the car buying process and are better able to facilitate the quoting, purchasing, and processing of cars. In 2015, we purchased approximately 471,000 lower cost self service and "crush only" vehicles. 

Vehicles are delivered to our locations by the seller, or we arrange for transportation. Once on our property, minimal labor is required to process the vehicle other than removing the battery, fluids, refrigerants, catalytic converters and hazardous materials. Vehicles are then placed in the yard for customers to remove parts. The vehicle inventory is usually organized according to domestic and import cars (further organized by make), passenger vans and trucks. In our self service business, availability of a specific part will depend on which vehicles are currently at the site and to what extent parts may have been previously sold. We usually keep a vehicle at our facility for 30 to 90 days, depending on the capacity of the yard and size of the market, before it is crushed and sold to scrap metal processors. By maintaining a relatively short turnover period, we ensure that our inventory is continually updated with different car options or removed from the yard when the saleable parts are depleted. 

Scrap and Other Materials 

Our self service operations generate scrap metal, alloys and other materials that we sell to recyclers. Vehicles that we no longer make available to the public and "crush only" vehicles acquired from other companies, including OEMs, are typically crushed using equipment on site. 

Customers 

The customers of our self service yards are frequently do-it-yourself mechanics, small independent repair shops servicing older vehicles, auto rebuilders, and resellers. The scrap from the vehicle hulks, when not processed by us, is sold to metals recyclers, with whom we may also compete when procuring salvage vehicles for our operations. 

Sales and Marketing 

We list part prices for automobiles and light-duty trucks on regularly updated price sheets, with prices varying by part type, but not by make or model. For instance, four cylinder engines are priced the same regardless of vehicle make, model, age or condition. While we do not consider retail automotive chains to be our direct competitors, as their product offerings are focused on maintenance products and mechanical parts, we may reference their prices on certain parts as a benchmark to ensure our prices remain competitive. 

Competition 

There are competitors operating self service businesses in all of the markets in which we operate. In some markets, there are numerous competitors, often operating in close proximity to our operations. We try to differentiate our business by the quality of the inventory and the size and cleanliness of the property. 

EUROPE SEGMENT 

Wholesale Automotive Products 

Our European wholesale operating segment was formed in the fourth quarter of 2011 with our acquisition of ECP, a leading distributor of automotive aftermarket parts in the U.K. ECP has approximately 8,800 employees with a large customer base of both commercial and retail accounts. The majority of ECP&#8217;s revenue comes directly from the professional repair segment. ECP&#8217;s national distribution centers support its regional hubs and branch network with daily replenishment of stock, providing our customers with what we believe to be the highest in-stock rate in the U.K. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 218 selling locations, supported by 3 national distribution centers and 17 regional hubs (many of which are co-located with selling locations), which allows us to reach most major markets within the U.K. 

Our European aftermarket collision parts program is managed by our ECP branch network through which we sell our Platinum Plus aftermarket products. We believe the historically low alternative collision parts usage percentage in Europe, which is currently less than 10%, provides an opportunity for us in this segment, particularly as insurance companies look to lower their costs. To further our commitment to expanding our European alternative collision parts program and becoming a leading one-stop shop supplier to the collision repair industry in the U.K., we also offer automotive paint products and related accessories. 

In May 2013, we acquired Sator, which allowed us to expand our presence in Europe to continental Europe. Headquartered in Schiedam, the Netherlands, Sator is a market leading distributor of automotive aftermarket parts in Western Europe. The acquisition of Sator expanded LKQ's European presence, and provides a potential platform to capitalize on the large and fragmented mechanical replacement parts market in Europe. Sator also complements our existing ECP operations in the U.K. given the significant overlap in suppliers and product mix, which allows for potential cost savings from the leveraging of our combined purchasing power. Efforts to combine the purchasing function in Europe are ongoing and are expected to be a continuous effort over the coming years. We have modified Sator's distribution model to be consistent with our U.K operations, primarily through acquisitions since the second quarter of 2014 of 18 warehouse distributors, 14 of which were customers of Sator. These acquisitions are integral to our plan to implement a two-step distribution model for Sator, under which we are selling directly to repair shops in order to improve our margins, drive product sales, and ultimately sell collision parts in the Benelux region. 

Sator has over 2,800 employees at 97 aftermarket warehouses that serve a diverse base of repair shop and warehouse distributor customers. Sator generates approximately 89% of its revenue from sales in the Netherlands and Belgium, with the remainder in Northern France and other European countries. With their respective distribution networks, IT infrastructure and unique customer base, we believe ECP and Sator will serve as a platform to expand into complementary products to increase market penetration in this segment, as well as to further develop a collision repair parts business throughout Europe similar to our wholesale operations in North America. 

In November 2014, we expanded our European segment to include wholesale recycling operations through our acquisition of a business with salvage and vehicle repair facilities in Sweden and Norway. We acquired an additional salvage business in Sweden in October 2015 bringing our Scandinavian employee headcount and warehouse count to 178 and 7, respectively. In addition to expanding our geographic presence in Europe, we believe these acquisitions provide us with the opportunity to leverage our experience in operating salvage facilities in a new market and leaves us well positioned to expand our aftermarket operations to include these countries. 

Inventory 

In 2015, ECP&#8217;s and Sator&#8217;s sales included 137,000 SKUs and 166,000 SKUs, respectively. Our inventory is primarily composed of mechanical aftermarket parts for the repair of vehicles 3 to 15 years old. Our top selling products include brake pads, discs and sensors; clutches; electrical products such as spark plugs and batteries; steering and suspension products; filters; and oil and automotive fluids. In 2015, our top five suppliers represented 20% of our inventory purchases, with our top supplier representing approximately 8% of our purchases. No suppliers outside of our top five suppliers provided more than 2% of our purchases during 2015. 

The aftermarket products we distribute are purchased from vendors located primarily in the U.K. and continental Europe. In 2015, we purchased 90% of our products from companies in Europe. The remaining 10% of our 2015 purchases were sourced from vendors located primarily in China or Taiwan, some of which also supply collision parts for our Wholesale - North American operations. In 2015, 52%, 38%, and 10% of our total inventory purchases were made in Euros, Pounds Sterling, and U.S Dollars, respectively. 

In our Scandinavia operations, we purchase severely damaged or totaled vehicles from insurance companies, which are transferred to our dismantling facilities or sold to other third party dismantlers. In 2015, we acquired over 8,150 salvage vehicles for our wholesale recycled product operations and resold 11,700 salvage vehicles to other third party dismantlers. 

Customers 

In our U.K. operations, we sell the majority of our products to over 37,000 commercial customers primarily consisting of professional repairers, including both independent mechanical repair shops and collision repair shops. In addition to our sales to repair shops, we generate a portion of our revenue through sales to retail customers from ECP&#8217;s e-commerce platform and from counter sales at the branch locations. This retail component of ECP&#8217;s business has historically represented approximately 10% of its revenue. 

Historically our distribution network in the Benelux Region operated under a three-step distribution model where the immediate customers were warehouse distributors. Since the second quarter of 2014, we have acquired 18 aftermarket parts distributors in the Netherlands. These acquisitions have enabled us to transform the original distribution model to a two-step distribution model. Our customer base currently consists of a combination of warehouse distributors and local repair shops, and the demand for our products is driven by the needs of the same types of professional repairers we service in our ECP operations. As a result, our customer base primarily consists of local repair shops. We still sell to some warehouse distributors, although the proportion of revenue from the distributors has declined over time as we internalize this function. Sator markets directly to the mechanical repair shops through fliers and other promotional materials and provides software to the repair shops, which the shops need for their operations. During 2015, no customer accounted for more than 3% of revenue for ECP or Sator. 

Sales and Marketing 

ECP&#8217;s customers will generally call a sales representative at the nearest branch to place an order. Using an electronic automotive exchange and our integrated IT platform displaying inventory availability, our sales representatives locate the appropriate replacement part for a customer. We set list prices for our products, and then apply a discount off of list, primarily depending on each customer's purchasing volume. We utilize a business-to-business website with certain of our customers to enable them to place product orders online through a customized interface that includes detailed parts specifications, customer-specific pricing, local branch availability, and account information. We believe this customer interface will result in fewer parts returns by improving order accuracy and will also reduce the time required by parts specialists to advise customers. Whether placed via a phone order or online, customer orders are filled from the local branch or routed to another location as necessary to fill the order. 

Sator&#8217;s sales and marketing platform is a proprietary stock management system that provides repair shops, jobbers and end users with an efficient system for ordering from our product catalog directly online. Through this online system, Sator is able to actively monitor inventory levels at all stages in the aftermarket automotive parts value chain in its markets. 

Similar to our North American wholesale operations, insurance companies significantly influence the purchasing decisions for collision products in Europe. As a result, we are attempting to establish business relationships with insurance companies and implement insurer-based marketing models in the U.K. by emphasizing the cost savings that can be achieved through the use of alternative parts. As we continue to grow our collision parts offerings in the U.K., we believe we will be well-positioned to serve as a lower-cost alternative for insured repairs throughout Europe given the majority of U.K. carriers offer coverage in multiple European countries outside of the U.K. 

Distribution 

Our European operations employ a distribution model in which inventory is stored at regional distribution centers or hubs, with fast moving product stored at branch locations or at local warehouse distributors (for some of our Sator operations) for timely delivery to the repair shop customers. Product is moved through the distribution network on our vans or via common 

carrier. In our ECP operations, we also sometimes employ a third party motorcycle fleet to deliver parts from our branch locations to nearby repair shop customers; as a result, our ECP branches can deliver certain in-stock parts within one hour. 

Competition 

We view all suppliers of replacement repair products as our competitors, including other alternative parts suppliers and OEMs and their dealer networks. While we compete with all alternative parts suppliers, there are few with national distribution networks like ECP and Sator that can reach the majority of repair shop customers within the required delivery time within their respective markets. We believe we have been able to distinguish ourselves from other alternative parts suppliers primarily through our distribution network, efficient stock management systems and proprietary technology which allows us to deliver our products quickly, as well as through our product lines and inventory availability, pricing, and service. We compete with OEMs primarily on the basis of price, service, and availability. 

SPECIALTY SEGMENT 

Specialty Vehicle Aftermarket Equipment and Accessories 

Our Specialty operating segment was formed in January 2014 with our acquisition of Keystone Specialty. Keystone Specialty is a leading distributor and marketer of specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories in North America serving the following six product segments: truck and off-road; speed and performance; RV; towing; wheels, tires and performance handling; and miscellaneous accessories. Our specialty segment has over 2,200 employees. We expanded our Specialty operating segment through our October 2014 acquisition of a supplier of replacement parts, supplies and accessories for RVs. Our August 2015 acquisition of The Coast Distribution System, Inc. (&#8220;Coast&#8221;) added to product offerings for the RV and outdoor recreation markets. With these acquisitions, we are a leading distributor and marketer of specialty vehicle aftermarket products and accessories, reaching most major markets in the U.S. and Canada. 

Inventory &#160; 

Our 2015 sales included more than 250,000 SKUs of specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories. Our top selling products are trailer hitches and RV products including satellite antennas, generators, waterproofing sealants, combination washer/dryer units and water pumps. The specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories we distribute are purchased from suppliers located primarily in the U.S., Canada, and China. Specialty aftermarket suppliers are typically small to medium-sized, independent businesses that focus on a narrow product or market niche. Due to the highly fragmented supplier base for specialty vehicle aftermarket products, we have very little supplier concentration. In 2015, approximately 17% of our specialty vehicle aftermarket purchases were made from our top five vendors, with our largest vendor providing approximately 5% of our inventory. 

Customers 

Specialty automotive and RV aftermarket accessories and equipment are purchased by our customers to improve the performance, functionality and appearance of their vehicles. Overall, the specialty vehicle aftermarket parts and accessories market contains a fragmented customer base comprised of specialty vehicle product installation outlets, automotive parts chains, or mail-order. In 2015, we sold products to approximately 20,000 customers. Our customers are principally small, independent retailers and installers of specialty vehicle automotive equipment. These businesses depend on us to provide a broad range of products, rapid delivery, marketing support and technical assistance. In addition to traditional customers, in recent years we have increased sales to several large automotive parts and online retailers. During 2015, our top two customers accounted for approximately 6% of Specialty segment revenue while no other customer accounted for more than 1% of revenue. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our employee sales force is comprised of inside sales personnel located within geographically-disbursed call centers and outside sales personnel who call directly on customers in the field. This sales force receives customer orders, responds to technical and other inquiries and proactively places outbound sales calls to customers. The focus of our outside sales force is to identify and acquire new customers, and to further develop relationships with existing customers. Outside sales personnel are responsible for specific geographic regions across the U.S. and Canada, and they work with regional managers to penetrate and service new and existing markets. Outside sales personnel also sell value-added marketing services, such as merchandising support. 

Marketing programs include: catalogs; advertising, sponsorships and promotional activities; product level marketing and merchandising support; and online initiatives. Our national footprint allows us to stage trade shows across the U.S., which provide an opportunity to improve sales through the showcasing of new and innovative products from our vendors to our customers. 

Through these sales and marketing initiatives, our goal is to continue to enhance our brand and reputation as a leading distributor in the industry. 

Distribution 

Our Specialty operations employ a hub-and-spoke distribution model which enables us to transport products from our 6 primary distribution centers and 18 inventory-stocking warehouses to our 54 non-inventory stocking cross docks, a majority of which are co-located with our Wholesale - North America operations and provide distribution points to key regional markets. Over 375 delivery routes are used to provide multi-day per week delivery and returns of our products directly to and from our customers in all 48 continental U.S. states and 9 Canadian provinces, and we ship globally to customers in over 40 countries. Keystone Specialty also operates 18 retail stores in northeastern Pennsylvania. Our retail stores accounted for less than 4% of Specialty segment revenue in 2015. 

Competition 

Industry participants have a variety of supply choices. Vendors can deliver products to market via warehouse distributors and mail order catalogs, or directly to retailers and/or consumers. We view all suppliers of specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories as our competitors. While we compete with all specialty vehicle aftermarket parts suppliers, there are few with national distribution networks like LKQ&#8217;s that can reach the majority of customers within the optimum delivery time. We believe we have been able to distinguish ourselves from other specialty vehicle aftermarket parts suppliers primarily through our broad product selection, which encompasses both popular and hard-to-find products, our distribution network, and efficient stock management systems, as well as through our service. We compete on the basis of product breadth and depth, rapid and dependable delivery, marketing initiatives, support services, and price. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

We own various trade names and trademarks as a result of past acquisitions. In addition to acquired trade names and trademarks, we also have technology based intellectual property that includes both internally developed websites and license agreements. We do not believe that our business is materially dependent on any single or group of related trademarks, licenses or registrations, nor would the expiration of any particular intellectual property right or termination of any particular intellectual property license agreement materially affect our business. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 31,100 employees. We are a party to a collective bargaining agreement with a union that represents 45 employees at our Totowa, New Jersey facility. Approximately 790 of our employees at our bumper refurbishing and engine remanufacturing operations in Mexico and 160 of our employees at our recycled parts facility in Quebec City, Canada are also represented by unions. Other than these locations, none of our employees are members of a union or participate in other collective bargaining arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

FACILITIES 

Our corporate headquarters are located at 500 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60661. We operate a field support center in Nashville, Tennessee that performs certain centralized functions for our North American operations, including accounting, procurement, and information systems support. Our Specialty operations maintain primary procurement, accounting and finance functions in Exeter, Pennsylvania. Certain back-office support functions for our segments are performed in Bangalore, India. Our European operations maintain procurement, accounting, and finance functions in Wembley, outside of London, England and in Schiedam, the Netherlands. In addition to these offices, we have numerous operating facilities that handle wholesale and self service retail product operations. We operate out of more than 790 locations in total, most of which are leased. Many of our locations stock multiple product types or serve more than one function. 

Included in our total locations are 424 facilities in the U.S. and 219 facilities in the U.K., including the 500,000 square foot national distribution center in Tamworth that houses inventory to supply the hubs and branches of our U.K. operations. In 2015, we began working with a developer on a second national distribution center in Tamworth. The 750,000 square foot facility will be fully operational by 2018. We also operate 97 facilities in continental Europe, 41 facilities in Canada, seven facilities in Scandinavia, four facilities in Mexico and two facilities in Central America. Additionally, we operate an aftermarket parts warehouse in Taiwan to aggregate inventory for shipment to our locations in North America. 

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 

In our North American operations, our aftermarket operations use a third party enterprise management system. Additional third party software packages have been implemented to leverage the centralized data and information that a single system provides, such as a data warehouse to conduct enhanced analytics and reporting, an integrated budgeting system, an 

electronic data interchange tool, and E-commerce tools to enhance our online business-to-business initiatives -OrderKeystone.com and Keyless. The systems used by our aftermarket operations are also used by all of our refurbishing operations. 

Our wholesale recycled product locations in North America operate an internally-developed, proprietary enterprise management system called LKQX. We believe that the use of a single system across all of our wholesale recycled product operations helps facilitate the sales process, allows for continued implementation of standard operating procedures, and yields improved training efficiency, employee transferability, access to our national inventory database, management reporting and data storage. The system also supports an electronic exchange process for identifying and locating parts at other select recyclers and facilitates brokered sales to fill customer orders for items not in stock. Our bidding specialists responsible for procuring vehicles for our wholesale salvage operations are equipped with a proprietary software application that compares the vehicles at the salvage auctions to our current inventory, historical demand, and recent average selling prices to arrive at an estimated maximum bid. This bidding system reduces the likelihood of purchasing unneeded parts that might result in obsolete inventory. 

To better serve our customers, a consolidated approach has been taken for the electronic sale of wholesale products in our North American Segment. A full suite of E-commerce services is available to approved partners that helps us improve order accuracy, reduce return rate and better fit our customer workflow. Using these services in coordination with our partners, products can be searched, priced and ordered without leaving the customers' own operating systems. 

&#32;We operate a single enterprise system for all of our heavy-duty truck operations that supports inter-region sales to reduce the potential for lost sales due to out-of-stock parts. We are also transitioning to a single IT platform to support our remanufacturing operations. We operate an internally-developed point of sale system in our self service retail operations, which allows enhanced management reporting as well as improved system reliability. Through www.lkqpickyourpart.com our self service customers can access key information including yard location, vehicle inventory, and pricing by part type. 

Our aftermarket operations in the U.K. use a single integrated IT platform for our purchasing, branch stock, and finance activities, which are further supported by a national distribution center system to manage inventory movement. The IT system allows customers to identify the correct part for repairs, thereby improving customer satisfaction and reducing return rates. Our aftermarket operations in continental Europe use several IT systems, which are linked to transfer data between systems, to manage customer orders and inventory movement, and for financial reporting purposes. This IT system can interface with our repair shop customers' respective IT systems, which enables them to identify the part required for the repair. 

Our Specialty operations utilize an internally developed inventory management and order entry system that interfaces with third party software systems for accounting, transaction processing, data analytics, and reporting. Online sales of our Specialty products take place through our ekeystone.com and viantp.com sites. These sites provide customers (i) the ability to match products with the make and model of car thus allowing the customer to order the right part, (ii) the product information (e.g. pictures, attributes) available for review and (iii) the convenience of searching inventory availability and ordering the product on the site. Additionally, the site can provide sales opportunities by suggesting other parts to purchase based on an inquiry submitted by the customer. Our delivery fleet utilizes a third party software provider to optimize delivery routes, and to track the progress of delivery vehicles throughout their runs. 

The hardware that supports the systems used in our operations is located in offsite data centers. The centers are in secure environments with around-the-clock monitoring, redundant power backup, and multiple, diverse data and telecommunication routing. We use separate third party provided software for our financial systems such as financial and budget reporting, general ledger accounting, accounts payable, payroll, and fixed assets. We currently protect our local customer, inventory, and corporate consolidated data, such as financial information, e-mail files, and other user files, with daily backups. These backups are stored off site with a third party data protection vendor. Additionally, we restrict access to customer, employee and vendor data to those users that have permission granted to them as part of their job function. We have made investments in various logging, encryption, event correlation and data loss prevention software to reduce the risk of unauthorized access and extraction of personally identifiable information of all types including that of vendors, customers and employees. Customer credit card information is not stored within the company&#8217;s computing environment, and the card information is encrypted when it is transmitted and processed for authorization. 

We continually evaluate our systems with the goal of ensuring that all critical systems remain secure, scalable, and operational as our business grows. 

REGULATION 

Environmental Compliance 

Our operations and properties are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and health and safety in the U.S. as well as other countries in which we operate. These environmental laws govern, among other things, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, mercury, and other hazardous materials. 

We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures relating to environmental matters. We have an environmental management process designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements. We cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times be in complete compliance with such requirements. 

Although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to environmental controls or other environmental matters in amounts that would be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Accordingly, environmental laws may change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Contamination resulting from vehicle recycling processes can include soil and ground water contamination from the release, storage, transportation, or disposal of gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze, transmission fluid, chlorofluorocarbons ("CFCs") from air conditioners, other hazardous materials, or metals such as aluminum, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury. Contamination from the refurbishment of chrome plated bumpers can occur from the release of the plating material. Contamination can migrate on-site or off-site which can increase the risk, and the amount, of any potential liability. 

In addition, many of our facilities are located on or near properties with a history of industrial use that may have involved hazardous materials. As a result, some of our properties may be contaminated. Some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination, even if these owners or operators did not know of and were not responsible for such contamination. These environmental laws also impose liability on any person who disposes of, treats, or arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person, and at times can impose liability on companies deemed under law to be a successor to such person. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties, or successors to such owners or operators, for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. 

When we identify a potential material environmental issue during our acquisition due diligence process, we analyze the risks, and, when appropriate, perform further environmental assessment to verify and quantify the extent of the potential contamination. Furthermore, where appropriate, we have established financial reserves for certain environmental matters. In addition, at times we, or sellers from whom we purchased a business, have undertaken remediation projects. We do not anticipate, based on currently available information and current laws, that we will incur liabilities in excess of reserves to address environmental matters. However, in the event we discover new information or if laws change, we may incur significant liabilities, which may exceed our reserves. 

Title Laws 

In some states, when a vehicle is deemed a total loss, a salvage title is issued. Whether states issue salvage titles is important to the supply of inventory for the vehicle recycling industry because an increase in vehicles that qualify as salvage vehicles provides greater availability and typically lowers the price of such vehicles. Currently, these titling issues are a matter of state law. In 1992, the U.S. Congress commissioned an advisory committee to study problems relating to vehicle titling, registration, and salvage. Since then, legislation has been introduced seeking to establish national uniform requirements in this area, including a uniform definition of a salvage vehicle. The vehicle recycling industry will generally favor a uniform definition, since it will avoid inconsistencies across state lines, and will generally favor a definition that expands the number of damaged vehicles that qualify as salvage. However, certain interest groups, including repair shops and some insurance associations, may oppose this type of legislation. National legislation has not yet been enacted in this area, and there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted in the future. 

Anti-Car Theft Act 

In 1992, Congress enacted the Anti-Car Theft Act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. The purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. In January 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. The portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any 

"covered major part." The Department of Justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. However, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. It would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use by such shops of recycled products. There is no pending initiative to implement the parts registration from a law enforcement point of view. However, there is a risk that a heightened legislative concern over safety of parts might precipitate an effort to push for the implementation of such rules. 

Legislation Affecting Automotive Repair Parts 

Most states have laws relating to the use of aftermarket products in motor vehicle collision repair work. The provisions of these laws may include consumer disclosure, vehicle owner's consent regarding the use of aftermarket products in the repair process, and the requirement to have aftermarket products certified by an independent testing organization. Some jurisdictions have laws that regulate the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. Additional laws of this kind may be enacted in the future. An increase in the number of states passing such legislation with prohibitions or restrictions that are more severe than current laws could have a material adverse impact on our business. Additionally, Congress could enact federal legislation restricting the use of aftermarket and recycled automotive products used in the course of collision repair. 

SEASONALITY 

Our operating results are subject to quarterly variations based on a variety of factors, influenced primarily by seasonal changes in weather patterns. During the winter months, we tend to have higher demand for our vehicle replacement products because there are more weather related accidents, which generate repairs. We expect our specialty operations to generate greater revenue and earnings in the first half of the year, when vehicle owners tend to install specialty products. 

