 Item 1. BUSINESS Aspen Aerogels, Inc. is an energy technology company that designs, develops and manufactures innovative, high-performance aerogel insulation used primarily in large-scale energy infrastructure facilities. In addition, we perform contract research services for a number of federal and non-federal government agencies, including the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy and other institutions. When used in this report, the terms &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; &#147;our&#148; and &#147;the Company&#148; refer to Aspen Aerogels, Inc. and respective subsidiaries. 

We design, develop and manufacture innovative, high-performance aerogel insulation. We believe our aerogel blankets deliver the best thermal performance of any widely used insulation product available on the market today and provide a combination of performance attributes unmatched by traditional insulation materials. Our products provide two to five times the thermal performance of widely used traditional insulation in a thin, easy-to-use and durable blanket form. Our end-use customers select our products where thermal performance is critical, and to save money, reduce energy use, preserve operating assets and protect workers. 

Our technologically advanced products are targeted at the estimated $2.8 billion annual global market for energy infrastructure insulation materials. Our aerogel insulation has undergone rigorous technical validation and is used by many of the world&#146;s largest oil producers and the owners and operators of refineries, petrochemical plants, LNG facilities and power generating assets, such as ExxonMobil, Pemex Gas and Royal Dutch Shell. Our products replace traditional insulation in existing facilities during regular maintenance, upgrades and capacity expansions. In addition, we are increasingly being specified for use in new-build energy infrastructure facilities. 

We introduced our two key product lines, Pyrogel and Cryogel in 2008. Our product revenue has grown from $17.2 million in 2008 to $120.5 million in 2015, representing a seven year compound annual growth rate of 32%. We have sold more than $475 million of our products globally, representing an installed base of more than 195 million square feet of insulation. We believe that this initial success positions us for future growth and continued gain in market share. 

We currently target our sales efforts in the energy infrastructure market, where we believe our products have the highest value applications. We are also working to develop and optimize aerogel products for applications within the building and construction market. As we continue to expand our production capacity and enhance our technology, we believe we will have opportunities to address additional high value applications in the global insulation market. 

We have grown our business by forming technical and commercial relationships with industry leaders, which has allowed us to optimize our products to meet the particular demands of targeted market sectors. We have benefited from our technical and commercial relationships with ExxonMobil in the oil refinery and petrochemical sector, with Technip in the offshore oil sector and with BASF Construction Chemicals in the building and construction market. We will continue our strategy of working with innovative companies to target and penetrate additional market opportunities. 

Our patented aerogel product and manufacturing technologies are significant assets. Aerogels are complex structures in which 97% of the volume consists of air trapped between intertwined clusters of amorphous silica solids. These extremely low density solids provide superior insulating properties. Although aerogels are usually fragile materials, we have developed innovative and proprietary manufacturing processes that enable us to produce industrially robust aerogel insulation cost-effectively and at commercial scale. 

&#160;

Our products enable compact design, reduce installation time and costs, promote freight and logistics cost savings, reduce system weight and required storage space and enhance job site safety. Our products reduce the incidence of corrosion under insulation, which is a significant maintenance cost and safety issue in energy infrastructure facilities. Our products also offer strong fire protection, which is a critical performance requirement in our markets. We believe our array of product attributes provides strong competitive advantages over traditional insulation. Although competing insulation materials may have one or more comparable attributes, we believe that no single insulation material currently available offers all of the properties of our aerogel insulation. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, based on shipment destination or research services location, our U.S. revenues were $44.5 million, $39.8 million and $30.2 million, respectively, and our international revenues were $78.0 million, $62.6 million and $55.9 million, respectively. 

We manufacture our products using proprietary technology at our facility in East Providence, Rhode Island. We have operated the East Providence facility since 2008 and have significantly increased manufacturing capacity and productivity during the period. We successfully commenced operation of our third production line in the East Providence facility during the first quarter of 2015 which increased our annual nameplate capacity to 50 million to 55 million square feet of aerogel blankets, depending on product mix. To address the anticipated increase in demand for our products, we plan to construct a second manufacturing facility in Statesboro, Georgia. We expect to complete construction and to commence operation of a first production line at this facility during 2018. 

Financial information about our product and research services revenues, net loss per share attributable to the Company&#146;s common shareholders and our total assets are provided in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our Markets and Competition 

Our core market is the energy infrastructure insulation market. This market is global, well-established and includes large and well-capitalized end-users. This market includes companies operating refinery, petrochemical, oil production, LNG production and storage facilities. The market also includes firms operating gas, coal, nuclear, hydro and solar thermal power generating plants. Insulation systems in the energy infrastructure market are designed to maintain hot and cold process piping and storage tanks at optimal temperatures, to protect plant and equipment from the elements and from the risk of fire, and to protect workers. The market is served by a well-organized, well-established, worldwide network of distributors, contractors and engineers. 

Demand for insulation in the energy infrastructure market is composed of demand associated with new-build construction of facilities, capital expansions and related capital projects, as well as with routine, non-discretionary maintenance programs within existing facilities. Capital expansions and related capital projects in the energy infrastructure market are driven primarily by overall economic growth and projected growth in energy demand. Maintenance programs are essential to optimal operation of processing equipment, to protect workers and to minimize the risk of a catastrophic loss. Accordingly, we believe that demand for insulation for maintenance purposes in comparison to capital projects is less affected by volatility associated with economic cycles, energy prices and similar macroeconomic factors. 

The major end-use markets that drive demand for our products include oil refining, petrochemical, natural gas and LNG, onshore oil production (including oil sands), offshore oil production and power generation. Global energy demand is expected to increase in the long-term and, in order to serve this growing demand, we believe our end-use customers will continue to invest in major energy infrastructure projects. 

&#160;

We also sell our products in the building and construction and other end markets, including the supply of fabricated insulation parts to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. These global OEMs develop products using our aerogel blankets for applications as diverse as military and commercial aircraft, trains, buses, appliances, apparel, footwear and outdoor gear. While these are not presently our core markets, we anticipate that we will allocate a growing portion of our manufacturing capacity to serve these markets. We believe the key performance criteria for insulation in these markets includes thermal performance, compact design, durability and fire resistance. 

We operate in a highly competitive environment. In general, we compete with traditional insulation materials based on product performance, price, availability and proximity to the customer. Customers may choose among a variety of traditional insulation materials that offer a range of characteristics including thermal performance, durability, vapor permeability, moisture resistance, ease of installation and upfront and lifecycle costs. Within each type of insulation material, there is also competition between the manufacturers of that material. Most types of traditional insulation materials are produced by a number of different manufacturers and once customers have chosen the type of insulation material that they intend to use, they will choose a manufacturer of that material based primarily on each manufacturer&#146;s price and delivery schedule. Insulation manufacturers include a range of large, high-volume, multinational manufacturers offering branded products and strong technical support services to small, low-volume, local manufacturers offering low prices and limited customer support. 

We believe the primary competitive factors in our market are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product performance (along multiple criteria), quality and fitness for purpose; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product price, installed cost and lifecycle cost; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product availability; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; proximity to customer and logistics. Our products are priced at a premium to traditional insulation materials. While our competitors offer many traditional insulation products that are priced below our products on a per-unit basis, we believe our products have superior performance attributes and have the lowest cost on a fully-installed basis or offer significant life-cycle cost savings. 

We compete in the aerogel insulation market with Cabot Corporation, or Cabot. In addition, we are aware of competitors in China that manufacture and market aerogel insulation products. 

Within each of our target markets, we encounter these organizations and a significant number of other aggressive national, regional and local suppliers. Our competitors are seeking to enhance traditional insulation materials and to develop and introduce new and emerging insulation technologies. Competing technologies that outperform our insulation products in one or more performance attributes could be developed and successfully introduced. We are aware of certain companies in Asia that are marketing aerogel products similar to our aerogel products principally over the Internet and we are aware of sales and deliveries of their products in our targeted geographic markets. See &#147;Risk Factors &#151; The energy infrastructure insulation market is highly competitive; if we are unable to compete successfully, we may not be able to increase or maintain our market share and revenues.&#148; 

Our market share in 2015 was less than 5% of the estimated $2.8 billion annual global market for energy infrastructure insulation materials. Many of our competitors have greater market presence, larger market share, longer operating histories, stronger name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, manufacturing and other resources than we have and may be better able to withstand volatility within the industry and throughout the economy as a whole while retaining greater operating and financial flexibility. If our competitors lower their prices, or develop new products, or if we are unable to compete effectively, our growth opportunities, share of the market, margins and profitability may decline. 

&#160;

Our Competitive Strengths 

Because insulation is used in a wide variety of demanding applications, insulation materials must satisfy a wide range of performance criteria on a cost-effective basis. We believe that our aerogel technology has allowed us to create superior insulation products for our core markets that will allow us to continue to grow our share of the global insulation market. We believe that the potential for significant technological innovation in traditional insulation materials is limited and that new high-performance materials will be required to meet evolving market requirements for energy efficient insulation systems. Our line of high-performance aerogel blankets is positioned to meet these requirements. Our solution is driven by our innovative and proprietary technology that produces aerogels in a flexible and industrially robust blanket form and is supported by over 15 years of research and development dedicated to new aerogel compositions, form factors and manufacturing technologies. We believe our aerogel blankets deliver a superior combination of performance attributes that enable end-users to save money, reduce energy use, preserve operating assets and protect workers across a wide range of applications in our target markets. 

We believe the following combination of capabilities distinguishes us from our competitors and positions us to continue to gain market share in the energy infrastructure insulation market: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Disruptive Products with a Compelling Value Proposition. Our aerogel products provide two to five times the thermal performance of widely used traditional insulation in a thin, easy-to-use and durable blanket form. We believe our array of product attributes provides strong competitive advantages over traditional insulation and will enable us to gain a larger share of the energy infrastructure insulation market. Although competing insulation materials may have one or more comparable attributes, we believe that no single insulation material currently available offers all of the properties of our aerogel insulation. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Important Energy End Markets. Our products are primarily used in large scale energy infrastructure facilities. Given continued growth in global energy consumption in the long-term, and the construction of new facilities to satisfy this demand, we believe that we serve well capitalized and growing global end markets. In order to capture the opportunities in our end markets, we have a network of sales professionals and qualified distributors in more than 30 countries around the world. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Growing Installed Base with Industry-leading End-Users. We have an installed base of more than 195 million square feet of insulation, representing more than $475 million in cumulative product sales since 2008. Through our relationships with industry leading end-use customers, our products have undergone rigorous testing and technical validation and are now in use at many of the world&#146;s largest oil producers, refiners and petrochemical companies. These relationships have shortened the sales cycle with other customers and have helped to facilitate our market penetration. We also have strong relationships with a global network of energy-focused distributors, contractors and engineering firms that understand the significant advantages our products provide to end-users. We believe our products have been used by 24 of the world&#146;s 25 largest refining companies and all of the world&#146;s 20 largest petrochemical companies. In addition, our products have been initially deployed in approximately 30% of the world&#146;s 640 refineries. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Proven, Scalable Business Model. Our proprietary manufacturing technology is proven and has been successfully scaled up to meet increasing demand. We have operated the East Providence facility since 2008 and have significantly increased manufacturing capacity and productivity during the period. We successfully commenced operation of our second production line at this facility in March 2011 and doubled our annual nameplate capacity to 40 million to 44 million square feet of aerogel blankets. We commenced operations of a third line in the East Providence facility during the first quarter of 2015 which increased our annual nameplate capacity by 25% to 50 million to 55 million square feet of aerogel blankets. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Protected Technology Platform and Proprietary Manufacturing Capability. Our product solution is the result of more than 12 years of research and development dedicated to new aerogel compositions, form factors and manufacturing technologies. Our intellectual property portfolio is supported by 82 issued patents, with an additional 65 pending in U.S. and foreign jurisdictions in areas related to product design, chemistry, process technology and market applications. In addition, we believe we have significant trade secrets related to product formulations and manufacturing techniques. We believe our portfolio of patents, trade secrets and know-how presents a significant barrier to potential new entrants in the production of aerogel blanket insulation. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Experienced Management Team with a Demonstrated Track Record. Our executive officers have an average of more than 20 years each of experience in global industrial companies, specialty chemical companies or related material science research. This management team is responsible for the development of our proprietary manufacturing technology, the commercial acceptance of our products, and the creation of a global distribution and marketing platform. As of December 31, 2015, we employed 274 research scientists, engineers, manufacturing line operators, sales and administrative staff, and management. We believe our dedicated and experienced team is an important competitive asset. Our Growth Strategy 

We are targeting continued expansion of the use of our products within energy infrastructure facilities during regular maintenance, upgrades and expansions. In addition to opportunities to replace traditional insulation at existing facilities, we are also pursuing insulation applications at new-build and large capacity expansion projects around the world. Historically, a significant portion of our revenue has been derived from displacing traditional insulation at existing facilities, in particular during periods of planned plant maintenance or upgrades. We believe these maintenance applications will continue to comprise a large portion of our revenue mix. 

Our strategy is to create economic value by leveraging our technological and market leadership in aerogels to be the premier provider of high-performance insulation products serving global energy infrastructure customers. In addition, we will pursue high-value opportunities for our aerogel products within other segments of the global insulation market, including the building and construction market. Key elements of our strategy include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Broaden Energy Market Diversity and Grow Market Share. We plan to focus additional resources to continue to grow our share of the energy infrastructure insulation market, both through increased sales to our existing customers and through sales to new customers. We plan to continue to expand our global sales force and distribution network and seek to promote greater enterprise-wide utilization of our products by existing end-use customers. To date, the majority of our revenue has been generated from applications in refineries and petrochemical facilities. We will continue to pursue and expect greater adoption of our products in district heating systems, LNG production and storage, and power generation markets. In addition, our product revenue has been and will be generated in large part by demand for insulation associated with scheduled plant shutdowns, or turnarounds, and other maintenance-related projects. With our broad adoption and growing installed base, we expect that our products will be specified during the design phase in a growing number of new plant construction and capital expansion projects. We expect that growth in global energy demand over time will result in increased new-build and large capacity expansion projects, driving demand for our aerogel products. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Leverage Our Technology and Increase Capacity to Meet Demand. Demand for our aerogel products has grown significantly. From 2008 through 2015, our product revenue has grown at a compound annual growth rate of 32% to $120.5 million. To meet anticipated growth in demand for our products, we constructed a third production line in our East Providence facility which began production during the first quarter of 2015. In addition, we plan to construct a second manufacturing facility in Statesboro, Georgia and to commence operation of the initial phase of a first production line at this 

&#160;

&#160; facility during 2018. Based on our preliminary plans for this facility, our projected cost to construct plant infrastructure and a first production line is between $110 million and $120 million. We expect to build the first production line in two phases at an estimated cost of between $85 million and $90 million for the first phase and between $25 million and $30 million for the second phase. We currently expect each phase of the first line will increase our estimated annual nameplate capacity by between 20 million to 24 million square feet of aerogel blankets, depending on mix. The plant site, layout and design will support future development of two additional similar production lines. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Expand Our Profit Margins and Return on Invested Capital. We will seek to continuously improve the cost efficiency of our manufacturing process to optimize the formulation of our products and to manage our supply chain to reduce costs. As our overall manufacturing scale grows, we believe there will be additional opportunities to realize efficiencies and to reduce our per unit overhead costs. We believe our current expansion plan offers attractive returns on incremental invested capital. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Develop and Leverage Strategic Relationships in the Building and Construction Market. We are pursuing market opportunities with leading building materials manufacturers and distributors across multiple regions to address the increasingly stringent regulatory environment governing the thermal performance of buildings. We believe this approach will enable us to leverage their broad technical and distribution capabilities and to facilitate market penetration. Our efforts will include development of new aerogel products and technologies optimized to meet the demands of the building and construction market. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Capitalize on Innovation. We employ a team of research scientists and process engineers focused on advancing our current aerogel technology and developing next generation aerogel compositions, form factors and manufacturing processes. We believe that we are well positioned to leverage a decade&#146;s worth of research and development to design and commercialize additional disruptive aerogel products for the energy infrastructure market. In addition, as we continue to enhance our technology and expand our capacity, we believe we will have opportunities to address additional high value applications in the estimated $37 billion global insulation market. Our Products 

Aerogels are complex structures in which 97% of the volume consists of air trapped between intertwined clusters of amorphous silica solids. Aerogels are a very low density solid and are usually extremely fragile materials. However, our proprietary manufacturing process produces aerogels in a flexible, resilient, durable and easy-to-use blanket form. 

The core raw material in the production of our aerogel products is a silica precursor. Our manufacturing process initially creates a semi-solid alcogel in which the silica structure is filled with ethanol. We produce aerogel by means of a supercritical extraction process that removes ethanol from the gel and replaces it with air. Our process allows the liquid ethanol to be extracted without causing the solid matrix in the gel to collapse from capillary forces. 

Our material costs were the equivalent of 45%, 46% and 47% of product revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We are seeking to lower our manufacturing costs and to improve the per square foot costs of our aerogel blankets by optimizing our chemistries and manufacturing processes to improve yields, by obtaining material price reductions from existing vendors, by qualifying new vendors for certain materials and by reducing shipping costs. Our objective is both to reduce costs to enhance our competitive advantage and to ensure we deliver high quality finished products. 

The materials used in the production of our products consist primarily of polyester and fiberglass battings, silica precursor and ethanol, which is used in the delivery of the silica precursor. Multiple sources of supply exist for all of our materials, and we believe the markets for these products are competitive and prices are relatively stable. We purchase silica precursor from several suppliers. Based on the current level of demand for our 

&#160;

products, we believe that an adequate long-term supply of silica precursor is available. However, if demand for our products increases rapidly, we will need to work with suppliers to ensure that an adequate long-term supply of silica precursor will be available. Suppliers of silica precursor include industrial companies that produce it directly or that produce it as a byproduct of other industrial processes. We are working with a number of suppliers to plan for our potential future needs and to develop processes to reduce the long-term cost of the silica precursor used in our products. See &#147;Risk Factors &#151; Shortages of the raw materials used in the production of our products, increases in the cost of such materials or disruptions in our supply chain could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.&#148; 

Our aerogel blankets are reinforced with non-woven fiber batting. We manufacture and sell our blankets in 60 inch wide, three foot diameter rolls with a standard range of thickness of 5 millimeters to 10 millimeters. Our base products are all flexible, hydrophobic yet breathable, compression resistant and able to be cut with conventional cutting tools. We have specifically developed our line of aerogel blankets to meet the requirements of a broad set of applications within our target markets. The composition and attributes of our aerogel blankets are described below: 

Energy Infrastructure Markets 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Pyrogel XT/XT-E. Pyrogel XT/XT-E, our best-selling product, is reinforced with a glass-fiber batting and has an upper use temperature of 650&#176; C. Pyrogel XT was initially designed for use in high temperature systems in refineries and petrochemical facilities, and we believe that it has wide applicability throughout the energy infrastructure market. Pyrogel XT&#146;s hydrophobicity and vapor permeability reduce the risk of corrosion under insulation in high temperature operating systems when compared to traditional insulation. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Pyrogel XTF. Pyrogel XTF is similar in thermal performance to Pyrogel XT, but is reinforced with a glass- and silica-fiber batting. Pyrogel XTF is specially formulated to provide strong protection against fire. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cryogel Z. Cryogel Z is designed for sub-ambient and cryogenic applications in the energy infrastructure market. Cryogel Z is reinforced with a glass- and polyester-fiber batting and is produced with an integral vapor barrier. Cryogel Z is also specially formulated to minimize the incidence of stress corrosion cracking in stainless steel systems. We believe that Cryogel Z&#146;s combination of properties allow for simplified designs and reduced installation costs in cold applications throughout the energy infrastructure market when compared to traditional insulation. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Spaceloft Subsea. Spaceloft Subsea is reinforced with glass- and polyester-fiber batting and is designed for use in pipe-in-pipe applications in offshore oil production. Spaceloft Subsea can be fabricated and pre-packaged to permit faster installation. Spaceloft Subsea allows for small profile carrier pipelines and associated reductions in capital costs. Other Markets 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Spaceloft. Spaceloft is reinforced with a glass/polyester fiber batting and is designed for use in the building and construction market. Spaceloft is either utilized in roll form by contractors in the field or fabricated by OEMs into strips, panels and systems that meet industry standards. Spaceloft is designed for use in solid wall buildings and where space is at a premium. A variant of Spaceloft, Spaceloft A2 is reinforced with a glass-fiber batting and specifically designed to meet Euroclass A2 fire standards. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cryogel X201. Cryogel X201 is similar in composition to Cryogel Z, but is produced without a vapor barrier. Cryogel X201 is designed for use in cold system designs where space is at a premium. Cryogel X201 is targeted to OEMs that design, produce and sell refrigerated appliances, cold storage equipment and aerospace systems. &#160;

R-Values by Material 

Insulation is a material or combination of materials that slows the transfer of heat from one side of the insulation material to the other. The composition of our aerogel products minimizes the three mechanisms of thermal transport: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Conduction. Heat conduction through a material is correlated to the material&#146;s density. Aerogels are very low density solids. As a result, thermal conductivity through the aerogel material itself is extremely low. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Convection. Heat convection in gases is through movement of gas molecules. Due to the restricted movement of gases in the aerogel structure, thermal convection is eliminated inside the aerogels. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Radiation. Radiation requires no medium to transfer the heat. Thermal radiation is partially absorbed by aerogels. Our aerogel products also contain infrared absorbing additives to significantly reduce radiant heat transfer. We believe our aerogel products offer the lowest levels of thermal conductivity, or best insulating performance, of any widely used insulation available on the market today. 

The lower a material&#146;s thermal conductivity, the more slowly heat is transferred across it. R-values are a commonly used measure of an insulating material&#146;s resistance to heat transfer. R-value is calculated as the thickness of an insulation material divided by the thermal conductivity of the insulation material. Materials with higher R-values have lower thermal conductivity and are better insulators. Traditional and specialty insulation materials provide a range of R-values. Aerogels have the highest R-value per meter of thickness in comparison to traditional insulation materials. 

Qualification for Use 

Our products have undergone rigorous testing and are now qualified for global usage in both routine maintenance and in capital projects at many of the world&#146;s largest oil producers, refiners and petrochemical companies. These end-users of our products have well defined practices, codes, specification and standards for materials and systems installed or used in their facilities. These specifications include insulation system design standards, material qualification and selection processes, and insulation application practices. As part of the material qualification process run by these companies, a new insulation must meet general industry standards, such as consensus standards developed by ASTM International, and, in some cases, company-specific internal standards to be considered for use. In addition, most of these companies require one or more field trials to establish fitness for use in specific applications. The companies either run these qualification processes and field trials internally or through third parties engaged by them, and they generally do not publicly disclose the results of their testing. While the specific processes and timelines vary from company to company, in general, upon successful completion of the qualification process for an insulation material, an end-user will typically deem the material to be qualified for use in its facilities on a local, regional or global basis for one or more applications. Because our end-use customers are typically businesses with very large operations, our insulation sales likely represent only a small portion of the total insulation used by any one of these companies. Accordingly, once our products are qualified at a company, we continue to seek to expand use of our products by the end-use customer. 

Our Sales Channel 

We market and sell our products primarily through our sales force. Our salespeople are based in North America, Europe and Asia and travel extensively to market and sell our products to new and existing customers. The efforts of our sales force are supported by a small number of sales consultants with extensive knowledge of a particular market or region. Our sales force is required to establish and maintain customer and partner relationships, to deliver highly technical information and to provide first class customer service. We plan to expand our sales force globally to support anticipated growth in customers and demand for our products. 

&#160;

Our sales force calls on and maintains relationships with participants at all levels of the insulation industry supply chain. Our salespeople have established and manage a network of insulation distributors to ensure rapid delivery of our products in critical regions. Our salespeople work to educate insulation contractors about the technical and operating cost advantages of aerogel blankets. Our sales force works directly with end-users and engineering firms to promote qualification, specification and acceptance of our products. In the energy infrastructure market, we rely heavily on the existing and well-established channel of distributors and contractors to deliver products to our customers. In addition, our salespeople work with OEMs and development partners to create new products and solutions to expand our market reach. 

The sales cycle for a new insulation material is typically lengthy. Our sales cycle from initial customer trials to widespread use can take from one to three years, although we typically realize increasing revenue at each stage in the cycle. We believe our relationships with technically sophisticated customers serve to validate our technology, products and value proposition within a target market. These relationships have proven to shorten the sales cycle with other customers within specific markets and to facilitate growth in market share . We have focused our marketing efforts on developing technical support materials, installation guides, case studies and general awareness of the superior performance of our aerogel blankets. We rely on our website, printed technical materials, participation in industry conferences and tradeshows and presentation of technical papers to communicate our message to potential customers. We also receive strong word-of-mouth support from the growing network of distributors, contractors, OEMs and end-users that understand the benefits of our products. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 33 employees in our sales and marketing organization worldwide. Their efforts were supported by a team of six sales consultants. 

Our Customers and End-Users 

Customers 

As described below, our primary customers are distributors, contractors and OEMs that stock, install and fabricate insulation products, components and systems for technically sophisticated end-users that require high-performance insulation. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Distributors: We currently operate through a global network of over 40 insulation distributors. In general, insulation distributors stock, sell and distribute aerogel materials to insulation contractors and end-users. The distribution of our product outside the United States is typically conducted under agreements that provide for exclusivity by geography linked to annual purchase volume minimums. These insulation distributors often will also proactively market and promote aerogel materials across their market. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Contractors: We currently sell directly to a number of insulation contractors under project specific contracts or general purchase orders. Insulation contractors generally perform insulation installation, inspection and maintenance and project management for end-users. In addition, some insulation contractors provide end-users with project engineering and design services. Several of our agreements with contractors provide for exclusivity by market sector or geography linked to annual purchase volume minimums. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; OEMs: We currently sell directly to more than 10 OEMs that design, fabricate and manufacture insulation components and systems for use in the energy infrastructure, other industrial, building and construction, transportation, appliance and apparel markets. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Direct Sales to End-Users: In certain instances, we sell directly to end-use customers in the energy infrastructure insulation market. In these instances, our end-use customer directly manages and controls specification, logistic, installation, inspection, maintenance and fabrication activities of our aerogel products. &#160;

A North American distributor and a major Asian energy company represented 14% and 12%, respectively, of our total revenue for 2015 and were our only customers representing 10% or more of our revenue for that period. 

Our product revenue is generated by sales to customers around the world. In 2015, 35% of our product revenue was generated in the United States, 33% in Asia-Pacific, 26% in Europe, Middle East and Africa, 4% in Canada and 2% in Latin America based on shipment destination. 

A substantial portion of our sales are to shipment destinations located outside the United States, including India, Netherlands, South Korea, Hong Kong, Canada, Angola, Singapore, Norway, Germany and Italy based on our shipment destination or the location in which research services are performed. Total revenue generated from outside of the United States amounted to $78.0 million or 64% of total revenue, $62.6 million or 61% of total revenue and $55.9 million or 65% of total revenue, in the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In addition, we may expand our operations outside of the United States. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks; see &#147;Risk Factors &#151; A substantial portion of our revenue comes from sales in foreign countries and we may expand our operations outside of the United States, which subjects us to increased economic, foreign exchange, operational and political risks that could increase our costs and make it difficult for us to operate profitably.&#148; 

End-Users 

The end-users of our aerogel blankets include some of the largest and most well capitalized companies in the world. Our products are installed in more than 40 countries worldwide. 

Energy Infrastructure 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Oil Refining: We believe we have had initial product deployments in approximately 30% of the world&#146;s 640 refineries. In addition, we believe our aerogel blankets are used by 24 of the world&#146;s 25 largest refining companies including ExxonMobil, Shell and Chevron, among others. Over time, these companies have used our products in an increasing range of applications and throughout an increasing number of their facilities. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Petrochemical: We believe our aerogel blankets are used by all of the world&#146;s 20 largest petrochemical companies including Formosa Petrochemical, LyondellBasell Industries and a major Asian energy company, among others. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Natural Gas and LNG: Our products are in use at facilities operated by PTT LNG, ExxonMobil, and Pemex Gas, among others. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Onshore: Our aerogel blankets are in use in several Canadian oil sands facilities owned and operated by Suncor Energy, ConocoPhillips and Husky Energy, among others. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Offshore: Our products are currently used in subsea projects off the coast of Brazil, in the Gulf of Mexico, in the North Sea, off the coast of Malaysia and off the west coast of Africa. Our products are installed in offshore projects owned by Total, Marathon Oil, ConocoPhillips and Shell, among others. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Power Generation: We are targeting operators of gas, coal, nuclear, hydro and solar power generating facilities. Although not a significant portion of our revenue today, our products are currently used at facilities owned and operated by NextEra Energy Resources, among others. Other Markets 

We rely on the efforts of a small network of partners, OEMs and fabrication houses to serve the building and construction, transportation, apparel and appliance markets. Our partners, OEMs and fabricators are manufacturers of components and systems for buildings, refrigerated and hot appliances, cold storage equipment, 

&#160;

automobiles, aircraft, trains and electronic sectors and manufacturers of outdoor gear and apparel. While our products have not yet been widely adopted in these markets, we expect that the end-users of our products in these markets will include a wide range of institutions, businesses, individuals, and government agencies. 

Manufacturing 

We manufacture our products using our proprietary technology at our facility located in East Providence, Rhode Island. We have operated the East Providence facility since 2008 and have significantly increased manufacturing capacity and productivity during the period. Our manufacturing process is proven, scalable and can meet increasing demand. 

Our manufacturing group is led by a seasoned team with management experience at global industrial and specialty chemical companies. Our manufacturing workforce is experienced and, to date, we have experienced employee turnover consistent with others in our industry. We have well-defined maintenance, environmental, health and safety programs and operating processes in place. We utilize statistical processes and quality controls to measure the thermal conductivity, hydrophobicity and thickness of our aerogel blankets during the manufacturing process. We are ISO 9001:2008 certified. 

We successfully commenced operation of our third production line at the East Providence facility at the end of March 2015, which increased our annual nameplate capacity to 50 million to 55 million square feet of aerogel blankets, depending on product mix. In November 2015, we announced the selection of Statesboro, Georgia, as the site for our second manufacturing plant. The 43 acre site is served by rail and provides convenient access to local ports. The Statesboro region is served by a well-developed technical educational system, and provides a strong workforce, secure and low-cost utilities and easy access to critical raw materials. State and local governmental authorities also provided us with a package of incentives including outright grants, free land, infrastructure support, tax credits and abatements, training programs and related benefits. We anticipate initial operation of a first production line at this facility during 2018. 

Based on our current preliminary plans for the second facility, our projected cost to construct plant infrastructure and a first production line is between $110 million and $120 million. We expect to build the first production line in two phases at an estimated cost of between $85 million and $90 million for the first phase and between $25 million and $30 million for the second phase. We currently expect each phase of the first line will increase our estimated annual nameplate capacity by between 20 million to 24 million square feet of aerogel blankets. The plant site, layout and design will support future development of two additional similar production lines. 

We directly control all stages in the manufacture of our aerogel blankets. Our direct ownership of manufacturing operations allows us to maintain control of proprietary process technologies and to control product quality. Our production of aerogel blankets utilizes a continuous batch process and consists of the following key steps: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Sol Preparation. Mixing of a silica precursor in ethanol, a catalyst and additives in set formulas to deliver the target properties of the resultant aerogel. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Casting. Application of the sol into a non-woven batting and initial formation of the gel structure. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Aging. Bathing of the gel-saturated blankets in fluids to impart desired physical and thermal properties. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Extraction. Supercritical extraction of the ethanol liquid from the gel-saturated blanket to produce an aerogel blanket. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Heat Treatment. Drying to remove trace ethanol, ammonia salts and water from the aerogel blankets. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Finishing. Coating to enhance quality and product handling. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Quality Control. Utilizing statistical process and quality controls to measure thermal conductivity, hydrophobicity and thickness of our aerogel blankets. &#160;

Our material costs were the equivalent of 45%, 46% and 47% of product revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The materials used in the production of our products consist primarily of polyester and fiberglass battings, silica precursors and ethanol, which is used in the delivery of the silica precursor. Multiple sources of supply exist for all of our raw materials, and we believe the markets for these products are competitive and prices are relatively stable. We purchase silica precursor from several suppliers. Based on the current level of demand for our products, we believe that an adequate long-term supply of silica precursor is available. However, if demand for our products increases rapidly, we will need to work with suppliers to ensure that an adequate long-term supply of silica precursor will be available. Suppliers of silica precursor include industrial companies that produce it directly or that produce it as a byproduct of other industrial processes. We are working with a number of suppliers to plan for our potential future needs and to develop processes to reduce the long-term cost of the silica precursor used in our products. See &#147;Risk Factors &#151; Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy &#151; Shortages of the raw materials used in the production of our products, increases in the cost of such materials or disruptions in our supply chain could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.&#148; 

We are seeking to lower our manufacturing costs and to improve the per square foot costs of our aerogel blankets by optimizing our chemistries and manufacturing processes to improve yields, by obtaining material price reductions from existing vendors, by qualifying new vendors for certain materials and by optimizing shipping costs. Our objective is both to reduce costs to enhance our competitive advantage and to ensure we deliver high quality finished products. 

Research and Development 

The mission of our research and development team is to leverage innovation in support of our commercial objectives, including by designing additional disruptive products for the energy infrastructure market and seeking methods to lower our manufacturing costs and to improve yields. Our research and development expenditures were $5.3 million, $6.0 million and $5.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In addition, we spent $1.0 million, $1.6 million and $2.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, on research and development activities sponsored by federal and other government agencies. Our scientists and engineers work closely with customers to study and assess insulation application requirements and guide advancements in aerogel materials and manufacturing. 

Contract Research and Government Support 

We regularly seek funding from a number of federal and other government agencies in support of our research and development and manufacturing activities. Research performed under contract to the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy and other institutions allows us to develop and leverage technologies into broader commercial applications. We also work closely with customers in government and industry to develop potential aerogel solutions that leverage not only the thermal insulation performance but other benefits of aerogels as well. The research and development activities that we conduct under such contracts may produce intellectual property to which we may not have ownership or exclusive rights and will be unable to protect or monetize. 

Under our contracts, the U.S. government generally has the right not to exercise options to extend or expand our contracts and may modify, curtail or terminate the contracts at its convenience. Our government customers may not renew our existing contracts after the conclusion of their terms and we may not be able to enter into new contracts with U.S. government agencies. Any decision by the U.S. government not to exercise contract options or to modify, curtail or terminate our contracts or not to renew our contracts or enter into new contracts with us would adversely affect our revenues. 

We have received $49.5 million in funding under government contracts from inception through December 31, 2015. Our contract research revenue was $2.0 million, $3.1 million and $4.0 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

&#160;

Intellectual Property 

Our success depends in part upon our ability to obtain, maintain and protect intellectual property rights that cover our product forms, applications and/or manufacturing technologies and specifications and the technology or know-how that enables these product forms, applications, technologies and specifications, to avoid and defend against claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, and to prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Since aerogels were developed approximately 80 years ago, there has been a wide range of research, development and publication on aerogels, which makes it difficult to establish intellectual property rights to many key elements of aerogel technology and to obtain patent protection. Where we consider it appropriate, our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary rights by filing United States and foreign patent applications related to technology, inventions and improvements that we consider patentable and important to the development and conduct of our business and, in particular, our aerogel technology, product forms and their applications in promising markets and our manufacturing technologies. We also rely on trade secrets, trademarks, licensing agreements, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and continuing technological innovation to safeguard our intellectual property rights and develop and maintain our competitive advantage. 

As of December 31, 2015, we owned 29 issued U.S. patents, 21 pending U.S. patent applications (including three issued U.S. patents and one pending U.S. patent application that we co-own with third parties), 53 issued foreign patents and 44 pending foreign patent applications (including 17 issued foreign patents and two pending foreign patent applications that we co-own with third parties). The U.S. patents that we own are generally effective for 20 years from the filing date of the earliest application to which each U.S. patent claims priority. The scope and duration of each of our foreign patents varies in accordance with local law. Our patents start to expire in December 2021. 

We believe that having distinctive names is an important factor in marketing our products, and therefore we use trademarks to brand some of our products, including Pyrogel, Cryogel and Spaceloft. As of December 31, 2015, we had six trademark registrations in the United States, 45 trademark registrations and 4 pending applications in foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union, Japan, China, Canada, South Korea and Brazil. Although we have a foreign trademark registration program for selected marks, our approach may not be comprehensive enough or we may not be able to register or use such marks in each foreign country in which we seek registration. 

Cross License Agreement with Cabot Corporation 

In April 2006, we entered into a cross license agreement with Cabot Corporation, as amended in September 2007, in which each party granted certain intellectual property rights to the other party. The cross license agreement remains in effect until the expiration of the last to expire of the issued patents or patent applications and acquired patents licensed thereunder. We hold a non-exclusive, worldwide license to those patents and patent applications owned or licensed by Cabot that are necessary for us to (i) practice our manufacturing technology within a field of use, which is defined in accordance with the specific chemistry of our aerogel products and the supercritical fluid technology that we use in our manufacturing technology and (ii) use and sell the resulting aerogel blanket and derivative products. We paid Cabot $38 million over a period of approximately seven years, with the last payment made in March 2013, in connection with this license agreement. We have granted to Cabot a reciprocal, non-exclusive, worldwide license to certain patents and patent applications that we own that are necessary for Cabot to practice its processes within a field of use defined in accordance with the specific chemistry in its aerogel products and the drying technology that it uses to manufacture its products. The grant of license to each party covers issued patents, patent applications and patents issued from such counterpart applications, as well as patents licensed or acquired during a specified term, in each case that claim aerogels, or methods, materials of manufacture, or uses of aerogels. 

If we intend to sell, transfer, pledge or mortgage any of the patent rights that we license to Cabot, such sale, transfer, pledge or mortgage is subject to the licenses granted to Cabot under the cross license agreement. We also bear full responsibility and liability for any loss, damage, personal injury or death resulting from, arising out 

&#160;

of or connected with our use of the licensed Cabot intellectual property or our use or any third party&#146;s use of any products manufactured using the licensed Cabot intellectual property. The right to assert infringement of one or more patents licensed under the cross license agreement resides solely with the patent owner and, thus, Cabot has the exclusive right, but not the obligation, to enforce its rights in its intellectual property licensed to us under the agreement at its own expense, and any decision as to whether or not to do so by Cabot must be accepted as final by us. 

Our Company 

We are a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware. In June 2008, we completed a reorganization pursuant to which our predecessor company merged with and into a newly formed Delaware corporation, renamed Aspen Aerogels, Inc. We own two wholly owned subsidiaries: Aspen Aerogels Rhode Island, LLC and Aspen Aerogels Germany, GmbH. We maintain our corporate offices in Northborough, Massachusetts. 

On June 18, 2014, we completed our initial public offering, or IPO, of 7,500,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $11.00 per share. As of March 1, 2016, we had 23,184,852 shares of our common stock outstanding. 

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may read and copy the reports and other information we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may also obtain copies of this information by mail from the public reference section of the SEC, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates. You may obtain information regarding the operation of the public reference room by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov. 

We maintain a public internet site at http://www.aerogel.com , including an Investors section through which we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, as well as any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We also make available on our website the charters for our Board of Directors&#146; Audit Committee, Compensation and Leadership Development Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and other related materials. The information on our website is not part of this annual report. 

Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at Aspen Aerogels, Inc., 30 Forbes Road, Building B, Northborough, MA 01532, Attention: Investor Relations; telephone: 508-691-1111; e-mail: ir@aerogel.com . 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 274 full-time employees and one part-time employee, with 30 in research and development, 188 in manufacturing operations and supply chain, 33 in sales and marketing and 23 in general and administrative functions. Of our employees, 267 are located in the United States and seven are located abroad. We consider our current relationship with our employees to be of good standing. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or have collective bargaining agreements. 

Seasonality 

Our industry and product offering makes us less susceptible to seasonal patterns as our operating results are generated in part by demand for insulation associated with new-build construction of facilities, capital 

&#160;

expansions and related capital projects, and larger maintenance-related projects in the energy infrastructure market. Historically, our second and fourth quarter results have shown an increase in revenue, which we believe is associated with our end-use customers&#146; maintenance schedules and timing of capital projects. 

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect the environment and to regulate the discharge of materials into the environment. We believe that our policies, practices, and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and associated financial liability. To date, environmental control regulations have not had a significant adverse effect on our overall operations. See &#147;Risk Factors &#151; We may incur significant costs complying with environmental, health and safety laws and related claims, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations.&#148; 

&#160;

