 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

OVERVIEW 

We are a diversified healthcare company that seeks to establish industry-leading positions in large and rapidly growing medical markets. Our diagnostics business includes Bio-Reference Laboratories (&#8220;Bio-Reference&#8221;), the nation&#8217;s third-largest clinical laboratory with a core genetic testing business and a 420-person sales force to drive growth and leverage new products, including the 4Kscore &#32;prostate cancer test and the Claros 1 &#32;in-office immunoassay platform. Our pharmaceutical business features Rayaldee , a treatment for secondary hyperparathyroidism (&#8220;SHPT&#8221;) in patients with stage 3 or 4 chronic kidney disease (&#8220;CKD&#8221;) and vitamin D insufficiency (target March 29, 2016 PDUFA date) and VARUBI&#8482; for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (launched by partner TESARO in November 2015). Our pharmaceutical business includes OPKO Biologics, which features hGH-CTP, a once-weekly human growth hormone injection (in Phase 3 and partnered with Pfizer), and a longer acting Factor VIIa drug for hemophilia (Phase 2a). 

In addition to our pharmaceutical and diagnostic development programs, we own established pharmaceutical platforms in Ireland, Chile, Spain and Mexico which generate revenue and which we expect to facilitate future market entry for our products currently in development. We have a development and commercial supply pharmaceutical company, as well as a global supply chain operation and holding company in Ireland, which we expect will play an important role in the development, manufacturing, distribution and approval of a wide variety of drugs with an emphasis on high potency products. We also own a specialty active pharmaceutical ingredients (&#8220;APIs&#8221;) manufacturer in Israel, which we expect will facilitate the development of our pipeline of molecules and compounds for our proprietary molecular diagnostic and therapeutic products. 

We have a highly experienced management team that we believe has demonstrated an ability to successfully build and manage pharmaceutical and healthcare businesses. Based on their experience in the industry, we believe that our management team has extensive development, regulatory and commercialization expertise and relationships that provide access to commercial opportunities. 

All product or service marks appearing in type form different from that of the surrounding text are trademarks or service marks owned, licensed to, promoted or distributed by OPKO, its subsidiaries or affiliates, except as noted. All other trademarks or services marks are those of their respective owners. 

GROWTH STRATEGY 

We expect our future growth to come from leveraging our commercial infrastructure, proprietary technology and development strengths, and by opportunistically pursuing complementary, accretive, or strategic acquisitions and investments. 

We have under development a broad and diversified portfolio of diagnostic tests, vaccines, small molecules, and biologics targeting a broad range of unmet medical needs. We also operate the third largest full service clinical laboratory in the United States. We intend to continue to leverage our proprietary technology and our strengths in all phases of research and development to further develop and commercialize our portfolio of proprietary pharmaceutical and diagnostic products. In support of our strategy, we intend to: 

&#8226; 

obtain requisite regulatory approval and compile clinical data for our most advanced product candidates; 

&#8226; 

develop a focused commercialization capability both internationally and in the U.S.; and 

&#8226; 

expand into other medical markets that provide significant opportunities and that we believe are complementary to and synergistic with our business. 

In addition, we expect to leverage the Bio-Reference business and infrastructure to drive rapid and widespread uptake of our diagnostic products, including the 4Kscore &#32;test and the Claros 1 &#32;in-office immunoassay platform. We also intend to leverage the genetic and genomic data generated and accumulated through Bio-Reference&#8217;s genetic sequencing laboratory to enhance drug discovery and clinical trial programs. 

We have and expect to continue to be opportunistic and to pursue complementary or strategic acquisitions, licenses and investments. Our management team has significant experience in identifying, executing and integrating these transactions. We expect to use well-timed, carefully selected acquisitions, licenses and investments to continue to drive our growth, including: 

&#8226; 

Products and technologies. We intend to continue to pursue product and technology acquisitions and licenses that will complement our existing businesses and provide new product and market opportunities, enhance our profitability, leverage our existing assets, and contribute to our own organic growth. 

&#8226; 

Commercial businesses. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of commercial businesses that will both drive our growth and provide geographically diverse sales and distribution opportunities. 

&#8226; 

Early stage investments. We have and may continue to make investments in early stage companies that we perceive to have valuable proprietary technology and significant potential to create value for OPKO as a shareholder. 

CORPORATE INFORMATION 

We were originally incorporated in Delaware in October 1991 under the name Cytoclonal Pharmaceutics, Inc., which was later changed to eXegenics, Inc. (&#8220;eXegenics&#8221;). On March 27, 2007, we were part of a three-way merger with Froptix Corporation (&#8220;Froptix&#8221;) and Acuity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (&#8220;Acuity&#8221;), both research and development companies. On June 8, 2007, we changed our name to OPKO Health, Inc. Our shares are publicly traded on the NYSE under the ticker &#8220;OPK&#8221; and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Our principal executive offices are located in leased office space in Miami, Florida. 

We currently manage our operations in two reportable segments, diagnostics and pharmaceutical. The pharmaceutical segment consists of our pharmaceutical operations we acquired in Chile, Mexico, Ireland, Israel and Spain and our pharmaceutical research and development operations. The diagnostics segment primarily consists of our clinical laboratory operations we acquired through the acquisitions of Bio-Reference and OPKO Lab and our point-of-care operations. There are no significant inter-segment sales. We evaluate the performance of each segment based on operating profit or loss. There is no inter-segment allocation of interest expense and income taxes. Refer to Note 16 for financial information about the segments and geographic areas. 

CURRENT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AND RELATED MARKETS 

Diagnostics 

Bio-Reference Laboratories 

In August 2015, we completed the acquisition of Bio-Reference, the third largest full service clinical laboratory in the United States. Through Bio-Reference, we now offer comprehensive laboratory testing services utilized by healthcare providers in the detection, diagnosis, evaluation, monitoring, and treatment of diseases, including esoteric testing, molecular diagnostics, anatomical pathology, genetics, women&#8217;s health and correctional healthcare. We market and sell these services to physician offices, clinics, hospitals, employers and governmental units nationally, with the largest concentration of business in the larger metropolitan areas across New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Washington DC, Florida, California, Texas, Illinois and Massachusetts. Bio-Reference has a 420-person sales force and operates a network of more than 180 patient service centers for collection of patient specimens. 

Our Bio-Reference laboratory testing business consists of routine testing and esoteric testing. Routine tests measure various health parameters, such as the functions of the heart, kidney, liver, thyroid and other organs, including such tests as blood cell counts, cholesterol levels, pregnancy, substance abuse and urinalysis. These tests are primarily performed at our main processing facility in Elmwood Park, New Jersey, as well as satellite facilities in Florida, Texas, Maryland, Ohio, New York and Connecticut. We typically operate 24 hours per day, 365 days per year and perform and report most routine test results within 24 hours. 

&#32;The esoteric tests we perform require sophisticated equipment and materials, highly skilled personnel and professional attention. Esoteric tests are ordered less frequently than routine tests but typically are priced higher than routine tests. Esoteric tests include tests related to endocrinology, genetics and genomics, immunology, microbiology, HIV tests, molecular diagnostics, oncology, serology, and toxicology. We perform cancer cytogenetic testing at our main processing facility in Elmwood Park, and at our facilities in Clarksburg, MD, and Milford, MA, and genetic testing at our GeneDx facility in Gaithersburg, MD, as well as at our Elmwood Park facility. We perform cytology testing in Frederik, MD, Milford, MA, Columbus, OH, Houston, TX, Melbourne, FL and Campbell, CA, and at our Elmwood Park facility. 

Through Bio-Reference, we operate in the following highly specialized laboratory divisions: 

&#8226; 

Bio-Reference Laboratories. Bio-Reference constitutes our core clinical testing laboratory offering automated, high volume routine testing services, STAT testing, informatics, HIV, Hep C and other molecular tests. 

&#8226; 

GenPath (Oncology). National Oncology presence with expertise in cancer pathology and diagnostics, as well as molecular diagnostics. Core tests include FLOW, IHC, MicroArray, FISH, ISH, Morphology, full service oncology. 

&#8226; 

GenPath (Women&#8217;s Health). Innovative technology platform for sexually transmitted infections has enabled expansion nationally with specimens coming from 48 contiguous states, including Image Directed Paps, HPV Plus, and STI Testing. 

&#8226; 

GeneDx. Industry leading national laboratory for testing rare and ultra-rare genetic diseases with international reach, performing testings on specimens from more than 50 countries. 

&#8226; 

Laboratorio Bueno Salud . National testing laboratory dedicated to serving the Spanish-speaking population in the United States, where all business is conducted in Spanish including patient and physician interaction. 

We have one of the largest marketing staffs of any laboratory in the country with sales and marketing groups dedicated to urology, oncology, women&#8217;s health, genetic testing and correctional health, as well as cross-over groups selling to large institutions. All of our sales and marketing personnel operate in a dual capacity, as both marketing and client support representatives, which we believe provides better customer service and a strong connection with our customers. 

We expect the clinical laboratory testing industry will continue to experience growth in testing volumes due to aging of the population in the U.S., patient awareness of the value of laboratory tests, a decrease in the cost of tests, the development of sophisticated and specialized tests for detection and management of disease, increased recognition of early detection and prevention as a means of reducing healthcare costs, and ongoing research and development in genetics and genomics and personalized medicine. Our mission is to be recognized by our clients as the premier provider of clinical laboratory testing, information and related services. 

Bio-Reference provides us a significant diagnostics commercial infrastructure for marketing and sales that reaches more than 10 million patients a year. In addition, its large team of managed care experts complement our efforts to ensure that payors recognize the value of our diagnostic and laboratory tests for reimbursement purposes. Since the acquisition of Bio-Reference, we have begun to leverage the national marketing, sales and distribution resources of Bio-Reference, along with its 420-person sales force, to enhance sales of and reimbursement for our 4Kscore &#32;test, a laboratory developed blood test that provides a personalized risk score for aggressive prostate cancer. We plan to continue to leverage the Bio-Reference commercial infrastructure and capabilities, as well as its extensive relationships with payers, to commercialize OPKO&#8217;s other diagnostic products under development, including the Claros 1 . 

4Kscore 

We began selling the 4Kscore &#32;test in the U.S. in March 2014 and in Europe and Mexico in September 2014 and January 2015, respectively. The 4Kscore &#32;test is a laboratory developed test that measures the blood plasma levels of four different prostate-derived kallikrein proteins: Total PSA, Free PSA, Intact PSA and Human Kallikrein-2 (&#8220;hK2&#8221;). These biomarkers are then combined with a patient&#8217;s age, DRE status (nodule / no nodule), and prior negative biopsy status (yes / no) using a proprietary algorithm to calculate the risk (probability) of finding a Gleason Score 7 or higher prostate cancer. The four kallikrein panel of biomarkers utilized in the 4Kscore &#32;test is based on decades of research conducted by scientists at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and leading European institutions. Investigators at the University of Malmo, Sweden, University of Turku, Finland and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, have also demonstrated that an algorithm integrating these biomarkers along with patient data can predict prostate biopsy results to identify patients with the greatest risk of having aggressive prostate cancer. 

The 4Kscore test was developed by OPKO Lab and validated in 2014 in a prospective, blinded study of 1,012 men in collaboration with 26 urology centers across the U.S. Results showed that the 4Kscore &#32;test was highly accurate for predicting the presence of high-grade cancer (Gleason score 7 or higher) prior to prostate biopsy. The full data from the blinded, prospective U.S. clinical validation study were presented at the AUA Annual Meeting in Orlando, FL on May 18, 2014 at Plenary Session and published in the online edition of European Urology in October 2014. 

The clinical data presented at the AUA annual meeting included 1,012 men scheduled for prostate biopsy. Patients were enrolled regardless of their PSA, age, DRE result, or primary versus repeat biopsy status, and represent contemporary practice in the U.S. The results demonstrated the ability of the 4Kscore &#32;test to discriminate between men with high-grade, aggressive prostate cancer and those men who had no findings of cancer or had low-grade or indolent form of the disease. The discrimination, measured by Area Under the Curve (&#8220;AUC&#8221;) analysis, was 0.82 and was significantly higher than previously developed tests. Furthermore, the 4Kscore &#32;test demonstrated excellent risk calibration, indicating the accuracy of the result for an individual patient. The high value of AUC and the excellent risk calibration make the 4Kscore &#32;test result valuable information for the shared decision-making between the urologist and patient on whether or not to perform a prostate biopsy. 

A recent study indicated that the 4Kscore &#32;test led to 64.6% fewer biopsies. The study, &#8220; The 4Kscore&#174; Test Reduces Prostate Biopsy Rates in Community and Academic Urology Practices&#8221;, published in the January 2016 edition of Reviews in Urology, which included 611 patients seen by 35 academic and community urologists across the U.S., evaluated the influence of the 4Kscore &#32;test on urologist-patient decisions about whether to perform a biopsy in men who had an abnormal PSA and or DRE result. Test results for patients were stratified into low risk (&#60; 7.5%), intermediate risk (7.5%-19.9%) and high risk (&#8805;20%) for developing aggressive prostate cancer. Nearly half (49.3%) of the men were categorized as low risk; 25.7% and 25.0% fell into the intermediate-risk and high-risk categories, respectively. Notably, the 4Kscore test results influenced biopsy decisions in 88.7% of the men. In the three risk groups, a biopsy was avoided in 94.0%, 52.9%, and 19.0% of men in the low, intermediate, and high-risk categories, respectively. 

We have been granted a Category I CPT code by the AMA for our 4Kscore &#32;test, which will be published in August 2016 and effective January 1, 2017. This upgrades the 4Kscore &#32;test from a Category III Administrative code to a Category I CPT code, a designation reserved for established diagnostic tests. CPT codes are used by insurance companies and government payers to describe health care services and procedures, and having a Category I CPT code is critical to facilitate reimbursement in government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as private insurance programs. We believe having the Category I CPT code will help facilitate obtaining broader coverage from payers for the 4Kscore &#32;test and allow greater access to the test for a broader group of patients across the U.S. 

The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (&#8220;NCCN&#8221;) also included the 4Kscore &#32;test as a recommended test in their 2015 Guidelines for Prostate Cancer Early Detection. The panel making this recommendation concluded that the 4Kscore test is indicated for use prior to a first prostate biopsy, or after a negative biopsy, to assist patients and physicians in further defining the probability of high-grade cancer. 

As a result of our leveraging the Bio-Reference commercial infrastructure and managed care expertise, together with the NCCN Guidelines publication and receipt of a Category I CPT Code, we expect to significantly expand our efforts to obtain broad reimbursement for the 4Kscore &#32;test throughout 2016 and beyond. 

Point-of-Care Diagnostics 

OPKO Diagnostics, LLC (&#8220;OPKO Diagnostics&#8221;), formerly Claros Diagnostics, Inc., is developing a novel diagnostic instrument system to provide rapid, high performance blood test results and enable tests to be run in point-of-care settings. The instrument, a microfluidics-based diagnostic test system consisting of a credit card-sized disposable test cassette that works with a small but sophisticated desktop analyzer, provides high performance quantitative blood test results within minutes and permits the transition of complex immunoassays and other tests from the centralized reference laboratory to the physician&#8217;s office or hospital nurses station. The technology only requires a finger stick drop of blood introduced into the test cassette which can simultaneously run multiple tests (multiplex) on the single droplet of blood. 

We have already obtained a CE Mark for the Claros 1 &#32;point-of-care analyzer and a diagnostic test for prostate specific antigen (&#8220;PSA&#8221;) performed on the Claros 1 . We intend to update our CE Mark with all product improvements made to the Claros 1 &#32;and Sangia &#32;Total PSA test since the initial CE mark approval and introduce the Claros 1 &#32;system for PSA in Europe in 2016. 

We intend to commence clinical trials and submit our application to the FDA for a pre-marketing authorization (&#8220;PMA&#8221;) for the PSA test in late 2016 or early 2017. We also intend to submit our application to the FDA for clearance of a testosterone diagnostic test for our point-of-care system in late 2016 or early 2017. We expect to fully leverage Bio-Reference&#8217;s marketing, sales and distribution resources for the launch of the Claros 1 system and associated diagnostic tests in the U.S after FDA clearance or approval. 

We are also presently working to add additional tests for our point-of-care system, including vitamin D, and we believe that there are many more applications for the technology, including infectious disease, cardiology, women&#8217;s health, and companion diagnostics. 

Pharmaceutical Business 

We presently have several pharmaceutical compounds and technologies in research and development for a broad range of indications and conditions. Our product development candidates are in various stages of development and include the following: 

Renal Products 

Our two lead renal products are Rayaldee (CTAP101), a vitamin D prohormone to treat SHPT in patients with stage 3 or 4 CKD and vitamin D insufficiency, and Alpharen &#32;(Fermagate Tablets), a new and potent non-absorbed phosphate binder to treat hyperphosphatemia in Stage 5 patients on chronic hemodialysis. In May 2015, we submitted an NDA for Rayaldee &#32;to the FDA. Our NDA was accepted by the FDA for review in July 2015 and the FDA set a PDUFA target date of March 29, 2016. We announced successful top-line results from two pivotal phase 3 trials of Rayaldee &#32;in the third quarter of 2014. These trials were identical randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-site studies intended to establish the safety and efficacy of Rayaldee &#32;as a new treatment for SHPT in patients with stage 3 or 4 CKD and vitamin D insufficiency. 

Vitamin D insufficiency arises in CKD due to the abnormal upregulation of CYP24, an enzyme that destroys vitamin D and its metabolites. Studies in CKD patients have demonstrated that currently available over-the-counter and prescription vitamin D products cannot reliably raise blood vitamin D prohormone levels and effectively treat SHPT, a condition commonly associated with CKD in which the parathyroid glands secrete excessive amounts of parathyroid hormone (&#8220;PTH&#8221;). Prolonged elevation of blood PTH causes excessive calcium and phosphorus to be released from bone, leading to elevated serum calcium and phosphorus levels, softening of the bones (osteomalacia) and calcification of vascular and renal tissues. SHPT affects 40-82% of patients with stage 3 or 4 CKD and approximately 95% of patients with stage 5. 

The completed pivotal trials for Rayaldee &#32;successfully met all primary efficacy and safety endpoints. The primary efficacy endpoint was a responder analysis in which &#8220;responder&#8221; was defined as any treated subject who demonstrated an average 30% decrease in PTH from pre-treatment baseline during the last six weeks of the 26-week treatment period. A significantly higher response rate was observed with Rayaldee &#32;which steadily increased with treatment duration. The response rate with Rayaldee &#32;was similar in CKD stages 3 and 4. Safety and tolerability data were comparable in both treatment groups. Patients completing the two pivotal trials were treated, at their election, for an additional six months with Rayaldee &#32;during an open-label extension study. 

In addition to SHPT in CKD patients, we also are developing Rayaldee &#32;for other indications, and in August 2014, announced the submission of an IND to the FDA to evaluate Rayaldee &#32;as an adjunctive therapy for the prevention of skeletal-related events in patients with bone metastases undergoing anti-resorptive therapy. We commenced a phase 1 dose escalation study in the fourth quarter of 2014 in breast and prostate cancer patients with bone metastases who are receiving anti-resorptive therapy. The study is evaluating safety, markers of mineral metabolism and tumor progression. 

Our phosphate binder, Alpharen &#32;(Fermagate Tablets), has been shown to be safe and effective in treating hyperphosphatemia in phase 2 and 3 trials in stage 5 CKD patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis. Hyperphosphatemia, or elevated serum phosphorus, is common in dialysis patients and tightly linked to the progression of SHPT. The kidneys provide the primary route of excretion for excess phosphorus absorbed from ingested food. As kidney function worsens, serum phosphorus levels increase and directly stimulate PTH secretion. Stage 5 CKD patients must reduce their dietary phosphate intake and usually require regular treatment with phosphate binding agents to lower serum phosphorus to meet the recommendations of the National Kidney Foundation&#8217;s Clinical Practice Guidelines that serum phosphorus levels should be maintained at or below 5.5 mg/dL. Hyperphosphatemia contributes to soft tissue mineralization and affects approximately 90% of dialysis patients. Dialysis patients require ongoing phosphate binder treatment to maintain controlled serum phosphorus levels. We are currently preparing a single remaining Phase 3 clinical trial in the U.S., but are first studying novel characteristics of Alpharen &#32;which may offer additional competitive advantages. 

We believe the CKD patient population is large and growing as a result of obesity, hypertension and diabetes; therefore this patient population represents a significant market opportunity. According to the National Kidney Foundation, CKD afflicts over 26 million people in the U.S., including more than 20 million patients with stage 3 or 4 CKD. In stage 5, kidney function is minimal to absent and patients require regular dialysis or a kidney transplant for survival. An estimated 71-97% of CKD patients have vitamin D insufficiency which can lead to SHPT and its debilitating consequences. CKD continues to be associated with poor outcomes, reflecting the inadequacies of the current standard of care. Vitamin D insufficiency, hyperphosphatemia and SHPT, when inadequately treated, are major contributors to poor CKD outcomes. We intend to develop Rayaldee &#32;and Alpharen &#32;to constitute part of the foundation for a new and markedly improved standard of care for CKD patients having SHPT and/or hyperphosphatemia. 

OPKO Biologics 

OPKO Biologics is our biopharmaceutical business focused on developing and commercializing longer-acting proprietary versions of already approved therapeutic proteins. One of our innovative platform technologies uses a short, naturally-occurring amino acid sequence (carboxl terminal peptide or &#8220;CTP&#8221;) that has the effect of slowing the removal from the body of the therapeutic protein to which it is attached. This CTP can be readily attached to a wide array of existing therapeutic proteins, stabilizing the therapeutic protein in the bloodstream and extending its life span without additional toxicity or loss of desired biological activity. We are using the CTP technology to develop new, proprietary versions of certain existing therapeutic proteins that have longer life spans than therapeutic proteins without CTP. We believe that our products will have greatly improved therapeutic profiles and distinct market advantages. 

There are two existing biopharmaceuticals on the market that currently utilize CTP technology. The first product is human chorionic gonadotropin (&#8220;hCG&#8221;), of which CTP is naturally a part. Besides being present normally in high amounts during pregnancy, it is also given therapeutically to women or men as a fertility treatment (sold by Merck-Serono, Merck &#38; Co. and Ferring). The second product is ELONVA&#174; (FSH-CTP), which is sold by Merck &#38; Co. The data from the clinical and therapeutic use of these products gave us confidence that the CTP technology is able to address the major problems faced by the other attempted approaches to increase protein lifespan. Clinical and therapeutic data from these products also reassured us that CTP can be used safely and that it is effective in extending the serum lifetime and activity. We are the exclusive licensee for the utilization of CTP technology in all therapeutic proteins, peptides and their modified forms except for human FSH, LH, TSH and hCG. 

Our lead product candidate utilizing CTP, hGH-CTP, is a recombinant human growth hormone product under development for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency (&#8220;GHD&#8221;), which is a pituitary disorder resulting in short stature in children and other physical ailments in both children and adults. 

In December 2014, we entered into an exclusive worldwide agreement with Pfizer for the development and commercialization of hGH-CTP for the treatment of GHD in adults and children, as well as for the treatment of growth failure in children born SGA. In connection with the transaction, we granted Pfizer an exclusive license to commercialize hGH-CTP worldwide, and we received non-refundable and non-creditable upfront payments of $295 million and are eligible to receive up to an additional $275 million upon the achievement of certain regulatory milestones. In addition, we are eligible to receive initial tiered royalty payments associated with the commercialization of hGH-CTP for Adult GHD with percentage rates ranging from the high teens to mid-twenties. Upon the launch of hGH-CTP for Pediatric GHD in certain major markets, the royalties will transition to regional, tiered gross profit sharing for both hGH-CTP and Pfizer&#8217;s Genotropin&#174;. 

Pursuant to our agreement with Pfizer, we will lead the clinical development activities for the hGH-CTP program and will be responsible for funding the development programs for the key indications, which includes Adult and Pediatric GHD and Pediatric SGA. Pfizer will be responsible for all development costs for additional indications as well as all post-marketing studies. In addition, Pfizer will fund the commercialization activities for all indications and lead the manufacturing activities covered by the global development plan. 

GHD occurs when the production of growth hormone, secreted by the pituitary gland, is disrupted. Since growth hormone plays a critical role in stimulating body growth and development, and is involved in the production of muscle protein and in the breakdown of fats, a decrease in the hormone affects numerous body processes. hGH is used for the long-term treatment of children and adults with inadequate secretion of endogenous growth hormone. The primary indications it treats in children are GHD, SGA, kidney disease, Prader-Willi Syndrome and Turner&#8217;s Syndrome. In adults, the primary indications are replacement of endogenous growth hormone and the treatment of AIDS-induced weight loss. Patients using hGH receive daily injections six or seven times a week. This is particularly burdensome for pediatric patients. We believe a significant market opportunity exists for a longer-lasting version of hGH that would require fewer injections. 

hGH-CTP is currently in a global Phase 3 trial in adults and a global phase 2 trial in children and has orphan drug designation in the U.S. and Europe for both adults and children with GHD. We anticipate commencing our global phase 3 trial in children in the second half of 2016. 

In addition to hGH-CTP, we are developing a product to extend the life span of Factor VIIa (hemophilia) using the CTP technology. In February 2013, the FDA granted orphan drug designation to our longer-acting version of clotting Factor VIIa, Factor VIIa-CTP, for the treatment of bleeding episodes in patients with hemophilia A or B with inhibitors to Factor VIII or Factor IX. These patients are currently being treated by commercially-available Factor VIIa, with estimated 2013 worldwide sales of $1.7 billion. Currently, Factor VIIa therapy is available only as an intravenous (IV) formulation which, due to Factor VIIa&#8217;s short half-life, requires multiple infusions to treat a bleeding episode. In addition, frequent infusions are onerous when used as preventative prophylactic therapy, especially for children. 

Pre-clinical studies of IV and subcutaneous formulations of our product in hemophilic animal models demonstrated its duration of action and significantly increased survival. In January 2015, we submitted an IND to the FDA to conduct a Phase 2a study of Factor VIIa-CTP for the treatment of bleeding episodes in hemophilia A or B patients with inhibitors to Factor VIII or Factor IX, which was accepted by the FDA in March 2015. The Phase 2a study commenced in February 2016. Factor VIIa-CTP has been granted orphan designation in Europe as well as the U.S. 

We believe that the CTP technology may also be broadly applicable to other best-selling therapeutic proteins in the market and provide several key advantages over our competitor&#8217;s existing products: significant reduction in the number of injections required to achieve the same or superior therapeutic effect from the same dosage; faster commercialization with greater chance of success and lower costs than those typically associated with a new therapeutic protein; and manufacturing using industry-standard biotechnology-based protein production processes. 

In addition to hGH-CTP and Factor VII-CTP, our internal product development program is currently focused on extending the circulatory half life of oxyntomodulin. Oxyntomodulin, a natural appetite suppressor, is a peptide hormone secreted by the intestine following food intake that induces satiety when it reaches the brain. Oxyntomodulin activates both the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (&#8220;GLP1R&#8221;) and glucagon receptor (&#8220;GCGR&#8221;) and has been found to decrease food intake and body weight as well as lower glucose in overweight human volunteers. 

We believe oxyntomodulin has potential to be a safe, long term therapy for obese and diabetes type II patients, representing significant market opportunities. More than 380 million are living with diabetes worldwide, of which approximately 90% have type II diabetes. According to the World Health Organization, there are more than 500 million severely overweight or obese people. 

The clinical utility of oxyntomodulin has been limited mostly because of its short circulating half life. We are developing a long-acting oxyntomodulin comprising oxyntomodulin linked at its N-terminus to a polyethylene glycol (&#8220;PEG&#8221;) linear chain through a proprietary bi-functional hydrolysable linker. Administration of the conjugate into the blood results in slow release of the non-modified natural oxyntomodulin. Our preclinical studies have shown that a single weekly injection of our compound in development significantly inhibited food intake and reduced body weight in obese and diabetic animal models, as well as improving the lipid profile by reducing cholesterol levels in obese and diabetic mice. We expect to initiate a phase 1 study of oxyntomodulin in the first quarter of 2016. 

APIs 

FineTech Pharmaceutical, Ltd. (&#8220;FineTech&#8221;), is our Israeli-based subsidiary that develops and produces high value, high potency specialty APIs. Through its FDA registered facility in Nesher, Israel, FineTech currently manufactures commercial APIs for sale or license to pharmaceutical companies in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Israel. We believe that FineTech&#8217;s significant know-how and experience with analytical chemistry and organic syntheses, together with its production capabilities, may play a valuable role in the development of our pipeline of proprietary molecules and compounds for diagnostic and therapeutic products, while providing revenues and profits from its existing API business. 

Oligonucleotide Therapeutics 

OPKO CURNA, LLC (&#8220;CURNA&#8221;), previously CURNA Inc., is engaged in the discovery of new drugs for the treatment of a wide variety of illnesses, including cancer, heart disease, metabolic disorders and a range of genetic anomalies. CURNA&#8217;s broad platform technology utilizes a short, single strand oligonucleotide and is based on the up-regulation of protein production through interference with non-coding RNA&#8217;s, or natural antisense. This strategy contrasts with established approaches which down-regulate protein production. CURNA has designed a novel type of therapeutic modality, termed AntagoNAT, and has initially demonstrated this approach for up-regulation of several therapeutically relevant proteins in in vitro &#32;and animal models. We believe that this short, single strand oligonucleotide can be delivered intravenously or subcutaneously without the drug delivery or cell penetration complications typically associated with double stranded siRNA therapeutics. CURNA has identified and developed compounds which increase the production of over 80 key proteins involved in a large number of individual diseases. We have ongoing pre-clinical studies for several of these compounds, with an initial focus on orphan diseases including Dravet Syndrome, Rett Syndrome and MPS-1. 

NK-1 Program 

We acquired rolapitant and other neurokinin-1 (&#8220;NK-1&#8221;) assets from Merck &#38; Co. In December 2010, we exclusively out-licensed the development, manufacture and commercialization of our lead NK-1 candidate, VARUBI&#8482; &#32;(rolapitant), to TESARO. VARUBI&#8482;, a potent and selective competitive antagonist of the NK-1 receptor, had successfully completed phase 2 clinical testing for prevention of chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting, or CINV, and post-operative induced nausea and vomiting. TESARO submitted its NDA to the FDA for approval of oral VARUBI&#8482; &#32;in September 2014. TESARO&#8217;s NDA for oral VARUBI&#8482; &#32;was approved by the FDA in September 2015, and in November 2015, TESARO commenced the commercial launch of VARUBI&#8482; &#32;in the United States. 

Under the terms of the license, we received a $6.0 million upfront payment from TESARO and are eligible to receive milestone payments of up to $30.0 million upon achievement of certain regulatory and commercial sale milestones (of which $20.0 million has been paid to date) and additional commercial milestone payments of up to $85.0 million if specified levels of annual net sales are achieved. TESARO is also obligated to pay us tiered royalties on annual net sales achieved in the United States and Europe at percentage rates that range from the low double digits to the low twenties, and outside of the United States and Europe at low double-digit percentage rates. TESARO assumed responsibility for clinical development and commercialization of licensed products at its expense. Under the agreement, we will continue to receive royalties on a county-by-country and product-by-product basis until the later of the date that all of the patents rights licensed from us and covering rolapitant expire, are invalidated or are not enforceable, and 12 years from the date of the first commercial sale of the product. 

If TESARO elects to develop and commercialize VARUBI&#8482; in Japan through a third-party licensee, TESARO will share equally with us all amounts it receives in connection with such activities, subject to certain exceptions and deductions. In addition, we will have an option to market the products in Latin America. The term of the license will remain in force until the expiration of the royalty term unless we terminate the license earlier for TESARO&#8217;s material breach of the license or bankruptcy. TESARO has a right to terminate the license during the term for any reason on three month&#8217;s written notice. 

Asthma and COPD 

In May 2010, we acquired worldwide rights to a novel heparin-derived oligosaccharide which has significant potential in treating asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (&#8220;COPD&#8221;). Over 22 million people in the U.S. live with asthma, including nearly 6 million children. Additionally, there are more than 12 million people in the U.S. who have COPD. Currently available therapies often include unwanted side effects and may have limited efficacy. We believe that our product may have an improved efficacy and side effect profile. Our initial studies have demonstrated anti-inflammatory and anti-allergic activity when administered orally or inhaled with inhalers or nebulizers in sheep and mice asthma models. We have also successfully completed human feasibility studies in asthma. 

To complement our portfolio of respiratory products, we acquired Inspiro Medical Ltd., a medical device firm developing a new platform to deliver small molecule drugs like corticosteroids and beta agonists or larger molecules to treat respiratory disease. Inspiro&#8217;s Inspiromatic &#32;is a &#8220;smart&#8221; easy-to-use dry powder inhaler with several advantages over existing devices. In a First In Man double blinded clinical study conducted in 30 asthmatic children comparing Inspiromatic &#32;to a market leading dry powder inhaler, Inspiromatic &#32;demonstrated superior pulmonary delivery of the active drug. 

Commercial Operations 

We also intend to continue to leverage our global commercialization expertise to pursue acquisitions of commercial businesses that will both drive our growth and provide geographically diverse sales and distribution opportunities. During 2015, we acquired EirGen, a growing, profitable and cash flow positive specialty pharmaceutical company based in Ireland. EirGen is focused on the development and commercial supply of high potency, high barrier to entry, pharmaceutical products. Through its facility in Waterford, Ireland, EirGen currently manufactures high potency pharmaceutical products and exports to over 40 countries all over the world. High potency drugs such as those used for cancer chemotherapy are typically unsuitable for manufacture in normal multi-product facilities due to cross contamination risks. 

To date, EirGen and its commercial partners have filed 10 product applications with the FDA and 7 in Europe and 5 in Japan. EirGen has a strong research and development portfolio of high barrier to entry drugs and we expect to rapidly expand its drug portfolio. We believe EirGen will play an important role in the development, manufacturing, distribution and approval of a wide variety of drugs in a variety of dosage forms with an emphasis on high potency products. 

OPKO Health Europe (previously Farmadiet Group Holding, S.L.) operates primarily in Spain and has more than 20 years of experience in the development, manufacture, marketing, and sale of pharmaceutical, nutraceutical, and veterinary products in Europe. 

OPKO Mexico (previously Pharmacos Exakta S.A. de C.V.), is engaged in the manufacture, marketing, sale, and distribution of ophthalmic and other pharmaceutical products to private and public customers in Mexico. OPKO Mexico manufacturers and sells products primarily in the generics market in Mexico, although it has recently increased its focus on the development of proprietary products as well. 

OPKO Chile (previously Pharma Genexx, S.A.) markets, sells and distributes pharmaceutical and natural products to the private, hospital, pharmacy and public institutional markets in Chile for a wide range of indications, including, cardiovascular products, vaccines, antibiotics, gastro-intestinal products, and hormones, among others. ALS Distribuidora Limitada (&#8220;ALS&#8221;) is engaged in the business of importation, commercialization and distribution of pharmaceutical products for private markets in Chile. ALS started operations in 2009 as the exclusive product distributor of Arama Laboratorios y Compa&#241;&#237;a Limitada (&#8220;Arama&#8221;), a company with more than 20 years of experience in the pharmaceutical products market. In connection with the acquisition of ALS, OPKO acquired all of the product registrations and trademarks previously owned by Arama, as well as the Arama name. 

Strategic Investments 

We have and may continue to make investments in other early stage companies that we perceive to have valuable proprietary technology and significant potential to create value for OPKO as a shareholder. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES 

During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, we incurred $99.5 million , $83.6 million , and $53.9 million , respectively, of research and development expenses related to our various product candidates. During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our research and development expenses primarily consisted of OPKO Biologics and OPKO Renal development programs including expenses related to the development of hGH-CTP and phase 3 clinical trials for Rayaldee . 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

We believe that technology innovation is driving breakthroughs in healthcare. We have adopted a comprehensive intellectual property strategy which blends the efforts to innovate in a focused manner with the efforts of our business development activities to strategically in-license intellectual property rights. We develop, protect, and defend our own intellectual property rights as dictated by the developing competitive environment. We value our intellectual property assets and believe we have benefited from early and insightful efforts at understanding diagnostics, as well as the disease and the molecular basis of potential pharmaceutical intervention. 

We actively seek, when appropriate and available, protection for our products and proprietary information by means of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and contractual arrangements. Patent protection in the pharmaceutical and diagnostic fields, however, can involve complex legal and factual issues. There can be no assurance that any steps taken to protect such proprietary information will be effective. 

We own or license-in over a thousand U.S. and foreign patents and applications for our products, product candidates and our outlicensed product candidates. These patents cover pharmaceuticals, diagnostics and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical and diagnostic compositions and formulations and product manufacturing processes. Our patents are filed in various locations worldwide as is appropriate to the particular patent and its use. 

Rayaldee 

We have multiple U.S. patent families relating to Rayaldee . These patents are also filed in multiple countries worldwide. One patent family claims a sustained release oral dosage formulation and a method of treating 25-hydroxy vitamin D insufficiency or deficiency and will not expire until at least February 2027. A second patent family claims a method of administering 25-hydroxy vitamin D3 by controlled release, a formulation for controlled release of a vitamin D compound, a controlled release oral dosage formulation of a vitamin D compound and a method of treatment, and will not expire until at least April 2028. We also have additional patent applications pending relating to the sustained release formulation and its use which will expire in 2034 and have licensed patents covering the capsule shell. 

Rolapitant 

The rolapitant line of patents, licensed to TESARO, includes multiple patent families that cover anti-nausea treatment for chemotherapy patients. These U.S. patents are also filed and granted in many countries around the world. One patent family covers the chemical composition of rolapitant and related compounds and expires in December 2023 (with the patent term 

adjustment.) A patent term extension request was submitted to the USPTO in October 2015 to obtain an additional 1,716 days which will, upon approval, extend the rolapitant compound patent expiration date to August 2028.The second patent family covers pharmaceutical formulations, including a capsule formulation with a related method of use and expires in April of 2027. The third patent family covers particular aspects of the chemical composition of rolapitant as well as certain methods of treating delayed onset nausea and expires in April 2027. The fourth patent family covers a powdered pharmaceutical composition of a crystalline salt of rolapitant and expires in March 2028. The current line of rolapitant patents are approved for oral treatment. Patent applications directed towards IV formulation of rolapitant are currently pending. 

hGH-CTP 

The hGH-CTP line of patents, which is currently licensed to Pfizer, Inc., includes two main patent families that cover modified human grown hormone treatment. These U.S. patents are also filed in multiple countries around the world. One patent family covers certain CTP modified hGH polypeptides relating to growth hormones and their method of use and expires in February of 2027 (with the exception of two US patents, namely US 8,304,386 and US 8,097,435, which expire in Jan 2028 and April 2027, respectively, due to Patent Term Adjustment for each). The second patent family covers cytokine-based polypeptides relating to human growth hormone treatment and expires in 2027. In addition to the CTP patents and applications licensed to Pfizer, OPKO has multiple patent families covering similar biologicals with patents and applications pending in the U.S. and internationally. 

Because the patent positions of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and diagnostics companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, the patents owned and licensed by us, or any future patents, may not prevent other companies from developing similar or therapeutically equivalent products or ensure that others will not be issued patents that may prevent the sale of our products or require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties. Furthermore, to the extent that any of our future products or methods are not patentable, that such products or methods infringe upon the patents of third parties, or that our patents or future patents fail to give us an exclusive position in the subject matter claimed by those patents, we will be adversely affected. We may be unable to avoid infringement of third party patents and may have to obtain a license, defend an infringement action, or challenge the validity of the patents in court. A license may be unavailable on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming, and we may be unable to prevail in any such patent litigation or devote sufficient resources to even pursue such litigation. 

LICENSES AND COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIPS 

Our strategy is to develop a portfolio of product candidates through a combination of internal development, acquisition, and external partnerships. Collaborations are key to our strategy and we continue to build relationships and forge partnerships in various areas where unmet medical need and commercial opportunities exist. In December 2014, we entered into an exclusive agreement with Pfizer for the development and commercialization of our long-acting hGH-CTP for the treatment of GHD in adults and children, as well as for the treatment of growth failure in children born small for gestational age. Previously, we (or entities we have acquired) have completed strategic licensing transactions with the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, the President and Fellows of Harvard College, Academia Sinica, The Scripps Research Institute, TESARO, INEOS Healthcare, Arctic Partners, and Washington University, among others. 

COMPETITION 

The pharmaceutical and diagnostic testing industries are highly competitive and require an ongoing, extensive search for technological innovation. The industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. They also require, among other things, the ability to effectively discover, develop, test and obtain regulatory approvals for products, as well as the ability to effectively commercialize, market and promote approved products. 

Numerous companies, including major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and specialized biotechnology companies, are engaged in the development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products competitive with those that we intend to commercialize ourselves and through our partners. Competitors to our diagnostics business include major diagnostic companies, reference laboratories, molecular diagnostic firms, universities and research institutions. Most of these companies have substantially greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs and more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations than ours. This enables them, among other things, to make greater research and development investments and efficiently utilize their research and development costs, as well as their marketing and promotion costs, over a broader revenue base. This also provides our competitors with a competitive advantage in connection with the highly competitive product acquisition and product in-licensing process, which may include auctions in which the highest bidder wins. Our competitors may also have more experience and expertise in obtaining marketing approvals from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition to product development, testing, approval, and promotion, other 

competitive factors in the pharmaceutical and diagnostics industry include industry consolidation, product quality and price, product technology, reputation, customer service, and access to technical information. 

In our clinical laboratory operations, we compete with three types of providers in a highly fragmented and competitive industry: hospital laboratories, physician-office laboratories and other independent clinical laboratories. Our major competitors in the New York metropolitan area are two of the largest national laboratories, Quest Diagnostics and Laboratory Corporation of America. Although we are much smaller than these national laboratories, we believe that we compete successfully with them in our region due to our innovative testing services and our level of service. We believe our responses to medical consultation are faster and more personalized than those of the national laboratories. Our client service staff deals only with basic technical questions and those that have medical or scientific significance are referred directly to our senior scientists and medical staff. 

We are seeking to commercialize our 4Kscore &#32;product in the U.S., Europe and Mexico in a laboratory setting and to capitalize on near-term commercialization opportunities for our proprietary diagnostic point-of-care system by transitioning laboratory-based tests, including the 4Kscore , PSA, testosterone and other tests to our point-of-care system. We expect to leverage Bio-Reference&#8217;s national marketing, sales and distribution resources, along with its 420-person sales force to support commercialization of the 4Kscore &#32;and Claros 1 &#32;products. Competitors to our diagnostics business are many and include major diagnostic companies, molecular diagnostic firms, universities, and research institutions. 

Our ability to commercialize our pharmaceutical and diagnostic test product candidates and compete effectively will depend, in large part, on: 

&#8226; 

our ability to meet all necessary regulatory requirements to advance our product candidates through clinical trials and the regulatory approval process in the U.S. and abroad; 

&#8226; 

the perception by physicians and other members of the health care community of the safety, efficacy, and benefits of our products compared to those of competing products or therapies; 

&#8226; 

our ability to manufacture products we may develop on a commercial scale; 

&#8226; 

the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; 

&#8226; 

the willingness of physicians to adopt a new diagnostic or treatment regimen represented by our technology; 

&#8226; 

our ability to secure reimbursement for our product candidates; 

&#8226; 

the price of the products we may develop and commercialize relative to competing products; 

&#8226; 

our ability to accurately forecast and meet demand for our product candidates if regulatory approvals are achieved; 

&#8226; 

our ability to develop a commercial scale infrastructure either on our own or with a collaborator, which would include expansion of existing facilities, including our manufacturing facilities, development of a sales and distribution network, and other operational and financial systems necessary to support our increased scale; 

&#8226; 

our ability to maintain a proprietary position in our technologies; and 

&#8226; 

our ability to rapidly expand the existing information technology infrastructure and configure existing operational, manufacturing, and financial systems (on our own or with third party collaborators) necessary to support our increased scale, which would include existing or additional facilities and or partners. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

The U.S. government regulates healthcare through various agencies, including but not limited to the following: (i) the FDA, which administers the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (&#8220;FDCA&#8221;), as well as other relevant laws; (ii) the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services (&#8220;CMS&#8221;), which administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs; (iii) the Office of Inspector General (&#8220;OIG&#8221;), which enforces various laws aimed at curtailing fraudulent or abusive practices, including by way of example, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the Physician Self-Referral Law, commonly referred to as the Stark law, the Anti-Inducement Law, the Civil Money Penalty Law, and the laws that authorize the OIG to exclude healthcare providers and others from participating in federal healthcare programs; and (iv) the Office of Civil Rights, which administers the privacy aspects of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. All of the aforementioned are agencies within the Department of Health and Human Services (&#8220;HHS&#8221;). Healthcare is also provided or regulated, as the case may be, by the Department of Defense through its TriCare program, the Department of Veterans Affairs, especially through the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, the Public Health Service within HHS under Public Health Service Act &#167; 340B (42 U.S.C. &#167; 256b), the Department of Justice through the Federal False Claims Act and various criminal statutes, and state governments under the Medicaid and other state sponsored or funded programs and their internal laws regulating all healthcare activities. 

The testing, manufacture, distribution, advertising, and marketing of drug and diagnostic products and medical devices, as well as the performance of clinical testing services, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, and local governmental authorities in the U.S., including the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Any drug, diagnostic, or device product that we develop must receive all relevant regulatory approvals or clearances, as the case may be, before it may be marketed in a particular country. 

Clinical Laboratory Operations 

Our clinical laboratory operations are subject to regulations, which are designed to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. Laboratories must undergo on-site surveys at least every two years, which may be conducted by the Federal CLIA program or by a private CMS approved accrediting agency. The sanction for failure to comply with CLIA requirements may be suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory&#8217;s CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. We are also subject to regulation of laboratory operations under state clinical laboratory laws. State clinical laboratory laws may require that laboratories and/or laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls or require maintenance of certain records. Certain states, such as California and Florida, each require that we obtain licenses to test specimens from patients residing in those states and additional states may require similar licenses in the future. Only Washington and New York State are exempt under CLIA, as these states have established laboratory quality standards at least as stringent as CLIA&#8217;s. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and the suspension or loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations. 

Our clinical laboratory operations are subject to complex laws, regulations and licensure requirements relating to billing and payment for laboratory services, sales and marketing interactions with ordering physicians, security and confidentiality of health information, and environmental and occupational safety, among others. Changes in regulations often increase the cost of testing or processing claims. Also, these laws may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including in our pricing, billing and/or marketing practices in a manner that could adversely affect operations. 

Drug Development 

The regulatory process, which includes overseeing preclinical studies and clinical trials of each pharmaceutical compound to establish its safety and efficacy and confirmation by the FDA that good laboratory, clinical, and manufacturing practices were maintained during testing and manufacturing, can take many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, and gives larger companies with greater financial resources a competitive advantage over us. Delays or terminations of clinical trials that we undertake would likely impair our development of product candidates. Delays or terminations could result from a number of factors, including stringent enrollment criteria, slow rate of enrollment, size of patient population, having to compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, geographical considerations, and others. 

Although accelerated pathways for approval exist for certain drugs, generally, FDA review processes can be lengthy and unpredictable, and we may encounter delays or rejections of our applications when submitted. Generally, in order to gain FDA approval, we must first conduct preclinical studies in a laboratory and in animal models to obtain preliminary information on a compound and to identify any safety problems. The results of these studies are submitted as part of an IND application that the FDA must review before human clinical trials of an investigational drug can commence. 

Clinical trials are normally done in three sequential phases and generally take two to five years or longer to complete. Phase 1 consists of testing the drug product in a small number of humans, normally healthy volunteers, to determine preliminary safety and tolerable dose range. Phase 2 usually involves studies in a limited patient population to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug product in humans having the disease or medical condition for which the product is indicated, determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, and identify possible common adverse effects and safety risks. Phase 3 consists of additional controlled testing at multiple clinical sites to establish clinical safety and effectiveness in an expanded patient population of geographically dispersed test sites to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship for administering the product and to provide an adequate basis for product labeling. Phase 4 clinical trials may be conducted after approval to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. 

After completion of clinical trials of a new drug product, FDA and foreign regulatory authority marketing approval must be obtained. Assuming that the clinical data support the product&#8217;s safety and effectiveness for its intended use, a NDA is submitted to the FDA for its review. Generally, it takes one to three years to obtain approval. If questions arise during the FDA review process, approval may take a significantly longer period of time. The testing and approval processes require substantial time and effort and we may not receive approval on a timely basis, if at all, or the approval that we receive may be for a narrower indication than we had originally sought, potentially undermining the commercial viability of the product. Even if regulatory approvals are obtained, a marketed product is subject to continual review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions. For marketing outside the U.S., we also will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for pharmaceutical products. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing, and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. 

None of our pharmaceutical products under development have been approved for marketing in the U.S. or elsewhere. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any such products under development in a timely manner, if at all. Failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals or failure to obtain approvals of the scope requested will delay or preclude us, or our licensees or marketing partners, from marketing our products, or limit the commercial use of our products, and thereby would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; The results of pre-clinical trials and previous clinical trials for our products may not be predictive of future results, and our current and planned clinical trials may not satisfy the requirements of the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities.&#8221; 

Device Development 

Devices are subject to varying levels of premarket regulatory control, the most comprehensive of which requires that a clinical evaluation be conducted before a device receives approval for commercial distribution. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes: Class I devices are relatively simple and can be manufactured and distributed with general controls; Class II devices are somewhat more complex and require greater scrutiny; Class III devices are new and frequently help sustain life. 

In the U.S., a company generally can obtain permission to distribute a new device in one of two ways. The first applies to any device that is substantially equivalent to a device first marketed prior to May 1976, or to another device marketed after that date, but which was substantially equivalent to a pre-May 1976 device. These devices are either Class I or Class II devices. To obtain FDA permission to distribute the device, a company generally must submit a section 510(k) submission, and receive an FDA order finding substantial equivalence to a predicate device (pre-May 1976 or post-May 1976 device that was substantially equivalent to a pre-May 1976 device) and permitting commercial distribution of that device for its intended use. A 510(k) submission must provide information supporting a claim of substantial equivalence to the predicate device. If clinical data from human experience are required to support the 510(k) submission, these data must be gathered in compliance with investigational device exemption (&#8220;IDE&#8221;), regulations for investigations performed in the U.S. The 510(k) process is normally used for products of the type that the Company proposes distributing. The FDA review process for premarket notifications submitted pursuant to section 510(k) takes, on average, about 90 days, but it can take substantially longer if the FDA has concerns, and there is no guarantee that the FDA will &#8220;clear&#8221; the device for marketing, in which case the device cannot be distributed in the U.S. There is also no guarantee that the FDA will deem the applicable device subject to the 510(k) process, as opposed to the more time-consuming, resource-intensive and problematic, PMA process described below. 

The second, more comprehensive, PMA process, which can take a year or longer, applies to a new device that is not substantially equivalent to a pre-1976 product or that is to be used in supporting or sustaining life or preventing impairment. These devices are normally Class III devices. For example, most implantable devices are subject to the approval process. Two steps of FDA approval are generally required before a company can market a product in the U.S. that is subject to approval, as opposed to clearance. First, a company must comply with IDE regulations in connection with any human clinical investigation of the device. These regulations permit a company to undertake a clinical study of a &#8220;non-significant risk&#8221; device without 

formal FDA approval. Prior express FDA approval is required if the device is a significant risk device. Second, the FDA must review the company&#8217;s PMA application, which contains, among other things, clinical information acquired under the IDE. The FDA will approve the PMA application if it finds there is reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended use. The PMA process takes substantially longer than the 510(k) process and it is conceivable that the FDA would not agree with our assessment that a device that we propose to distribute should be a Class I or Class II device. If that were to occur we would be required to undertake the more complex and costly PMA process. However, for either the 510(k) or the PMA process, the FDA could require us to run clinical trials, which would pose all of the same risks and uncertainties associated with the clinical trials of drugs, described above. 

Even when a clinical study has been approved by the FDA or deemed approved, the study is subject to factors beyond a manufacturer&#8217;s control, including, but not limited to the fact that the institutional review board at a given clinical site might not approve the study, might decline to renew approval which is required annually, or might suspend or terminate the study before the study has been completed. Also, the interim results of a study may not be satisfactory, leading the sponsor to terminate or suspend the study on its own initiative or the FDA may terminate or suspend the study. There is no assurance that a clinical study at any given site will progress as anticipated; there may be an insufficient number of patients who qualify for the study or who agree to participate in the study or the investigator at the site may have priorities other than the study. Also, there can be no assurance that the clinical study will provide sufficient evidence to assure the FDA that the product is safe and effective, a prerequisite for FDA approval of a PMA, or substantially equivalent in terms of safety and effectiveness to a predicate device, a prerequisite for clearance under 510(k). Even if the FDA approves or clears a device, it may limit its intended uses in such a way that manufacturing and distributing the device may not be commercially feasible. For marketing outside the U.S., we also will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and marketing approval for medical devices. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, device clearance/approval, pricing, and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. In addition to the regulatory clearance and approval processes described herein, the FDA periodically issues draft guidance documents designed to provide additional detail on or reform aspects of the 510(k) and PMA clearance and approval processes. To the extent the FDA finalizes and implements these documents, the average 510(k) and PMA submission requirements and review times may change and devices that might previously have been cleared under the 510(k) process may require approval under the PMA process (and vice-versa). Additionally, the Medical User Fee Amendments of 2012 authorized the FDA to collect user fees for the review of certain premarket submissions received on or after October 1, 2012, including 510(k) and PMA applications. These fees are intended to improve the device review process, but it is still too early to assess the actual impact on the industry. 

After clearance or approval to market is given, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies, upon the occurrence of certain events, are authorized under various circumstances to withdraw the clearance or approval or require changes to a device, its manufacturing process or its labeling or additional proof that regulatory requirements have been met. 

A manufacturer of a device approved through the PMA is not permitted to make changes to the device, which affects its safety or effectiveness without first submitting a supplement application to its PMA and obtaining FDA approval for that supplement. In some instances, the FDA may require clinical trials to support a supplement application. A manufacturer of a device cleared through the 510(k) process must submit another premarket notification if it intends to make a change or modification in the device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, such as a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy source or manufacturing process. Any change in the intended uses of a PMA device or a 510(k) device requires an approval supplement or cleared premarket notification. Exported devices are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country to which the device is exported, as well as certain FDA export requirements. 

A company that intends to manufacture medical devices is required to register with the FDA before it begins to manufacture the device for commercial distribution. As a result, we and any entity that manufactures products on our behalf will be subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA&#8217;s Quality System Regulation requirements and other regulations. In the European Community, we will be required to maintain certain International Organization for Standardization (&#8220;ISO&#8221;), certifications in order to sell products and we or our manufacturers undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. These regulations require us or our manufacturers to manufacture products and maintain documents in a prescribed manner with respect to design, manufacturing, testing and control activities. Further, we are required to comply with various FDA and other agency requirements for labeling and promotion. The Medical Device Reporting regulations require that we provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence to reasonably suggest that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. In addition, the FDA prohibits us from promoting a medical device for unapproved indications. 

Diagnostic Products 

Certain of our diagnostic products in development are subject to regulation by the FDA and similar international health authorities. We have an obligation to adhere to the FDA&#8217;s cGMP regulations. Additionally, we are subject to periodic FDA inspections, quality control procedures, and other detailed validation procedures. If the FDA finds deficiencies in the validation of our manufacturing and quality control practices, they may impose restrictions on marketing specific products until corrected. 

Regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries may be a significant factor in how we develop, test, produce and market our diagnostic test products. Diagnostic tests like ours may not fall squarely within the regulatory approval process for pharmaceutical or device products as described above, and the regulatory pathway is not as clear. Although the FDA regulates in vitro diagnostic devices, some companies have successfully commercialized diagnostic tests for various conditions and disease states without seeking clearance or approval for such tests through a 510(k) or PMA approval process. These tests are known as laboratory developed tests (&#8220;LDTs&#8221;) and are designed, manufactured, and used within a single laboratory that is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (&#8220;CLIA&#8221;). CLIA is a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for diagnostic, preventative or treatment purpose. Such LDT testing is currently under the purview of CMS and state agencies that provide oversight of the safe and effective use of LDTs. 

However, the FDA has consistently asserted that it has the regulatory authority to regulate LDTs despite historically exercising enforcement discretion. In furtherance of that position, the FDA issued two draft guidance documents in October 2014: (1) Framework for Regulatory Oversight of Laboratory Developed Tests (the &#8220;Framework Guidance&#8221;); and (2) FDA Notification and Medical Device Reporting for Laboratory Developed Tests (the &#8220;Notification Guidance&#8221;). The Framework Guidance outlines the FDA&#8217;s plan to adopt over time a risk-based approach to regulating LDTs whereby different classifications of LDTs would be subject to different levels of FDA oversight and enforcement, including, for example, prohibitions on adulteration and misbranding, establishment registration and device listing, premarket notification, banned devices, records and reports, good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting, premarket review of safety, effectiveness, and clinical validity, and quality system requirements. The Notification Guidance is intended to explain how clinical laboratories should notify the FDA of the LDTs they develop and how to satisfy Medical Device Reporting requirements. 

If finalized, the Framework Guidance and the Notification Guidance may have a materially adverse effect on the time, cost, and risk associated with the Company&#8217;s development and commercialization of LDTs for the U.S. market, and there can be no assurance that clearances or approvals sought by the Company will be granted and maintained. However, the FDA&#8217;s authority to regulate LDTs continues to be challenged, and the timeline and process for finalizing the draft guidance documents is unknown. We will continue to monitor changes to all domestic and international LDT regulatory policy so as to ensure compliance with the current regulatory scheme. 

Impact of Regulation 

The FDA in the course of enforcing the FDCA may subject a company to various sanctions for violating FDA regulations or provisions of the FDCA, including requiring recalls, issuing Warning Letters, seeking to impose civil money penalties, seizing devices that the agency believes are non-compliant, seeking to enjoin distribution of a specific type of device or other product, seeking to revoke a clearance or approval, seeking disgorgement of profits and seeking to criminally prosecute a company and its officers and other responsible parties. 

The levels of revenues and profitability of biopharmaceutical companies may be affected by the continuing efforts of government and third party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. In addition, in the U.S. and elsewhere, sales of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products are dependent in part on the availability and adequacy of reimbursement from third party payers, such as the government or private insurance plans. Third party payers are increasingly challenging established prices, and new products that are more expensive than existing treatments may have difficulty finding ready acceptance unless there is a clear therapeutic benefit. On April 1, 2014, the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (&#8220;PAMA&#8221;) was enacted into law. Under PAMA, Medicare payment for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests will be established by calculating a weighted mean of private payer rates starting in 2017. Further, applicable laboratories will be required to report payment rates for covered tests starting in 2016. Failure to report such data may result in a civil money penalty in an amount of up to $10,000 per day. It is anticipated that the market-based payment system will result in lower reimbursement rates for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests. Even though the permitted annual decrease will be capped through 2022, the cap does not apply to new tests or new advanced diagnostic tests. We cannot assure you that any of our products will be considered cost effective, or that reimbursement will be available or sufficient to allow us to sell them competitively and profitably. 

State and Federal Security and Privacy Regulations 

The privacy and security regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 ( the &#8220;HITECH Act&#8221;, and collectively, &#8220;HIPAA&#8221;), establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the uses and disclosures of protected health information, or PHI, by health plans and health care providers, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic PHI. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including: 

&#8226; 

the circumstances under which uses and disclosures of PHI are permitted or required without a specific authorization by the patient, including but not limited to treatment purposes, to obtain payments for services and health care operations activities; 

&#8226; 

a patient&#8217;s rights to access, amend and receive an accounting of certain disclosures of PHI; 

&#8226; 

the content of notices of privacy practices for PHI; and 

&#8226; 

administrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities that use or receive PHI electronically. 

The final &#8220;omnibus&#8221; rule implementing the HITECH Act took effect on March 26, 2013. The rule is broad in scope, but certain provisions are particularly significant in light of our business operations. For example, the final &#8220;omnibus&#8221; rule implementing the HITECH Act: 

&#8226; 

Makes clear that situations involving impermissible access, acquisition, use or disclosure of protected health information are now presumed to be a breach unless the covered entity or business associate is able to demonstrate that there is a low probability that the information has been compromised; 

&#8226; 

Defines the term &#8220;business associate&#8221; to include subcontractors and agents that receive, create, maintain or transmit protected health information on behalf of the business associate; 

&#8226; 

Establishes new parameters for covered entities and business associates on uses and disclosures of PHI for fundraising and marketing; and 

&#8226; 

Establishes clear restrictions on the sale of PHI without patient authorization. 

As a provider of clinical laboratory services and as we launch commercial diagnostic tests, we must continue to implement policies and procedures related to compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security regulations, as required by law. The privacy and security regulations provide for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of PHI, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. 

Anti-Kickback Laws, Physician Self-Referral Laws, False Claims Act, Civil Monetary Penalties 

We are also subject to various federal, state, and international laws pertaining to health care &#8220;fraud and abuse,&#8221; including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits anyone from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering, or paying any remuneration with the intent to refer, or to arrange for the referral or order of, services or items payable under a federal health care program, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug or the use of a service or device. Recognizing that the Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements, Congress authorized the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, or OIG, to issue a series of regulations, known as &#8220;safe harbors.&#8221; These safe harbors set forth requirements that, if met in their entirety, will assure health care providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal, or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities, such as the OIG. 

Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute are punishable by the imposition of criminal fines, civil money penalties, treble damages, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. Many states have also enacted similar anti-kickback laws. The Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws and regulations are expansive. If the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and our stock price. Even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We will consult counsel concerning the potential application of these and other laws to our business and our sales, marketing and other activities and will make good faith efforts to comply with them. However, given the broad reach of federal and state anti-kickback laws and the increasing attention given by law enforcement authorities, we are unable to predict whether any of our activities will be challenged or deemed to violate these laws. 

We are also subject to the physician self-referral laws, commonly referred to as the Stark law, which is a strict liability statute that generally prohibits physicians from referring Medicare patients to providers of &#8220;designated health services,&#8221; including clinical laboratories, with whom the physician or the physician&#8217;s immediate family member has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement, unless an applicable exception applies. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering adopting similar laws, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated healthcare services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of the payment for the patient&#8217;s care. If it is determined that certain of our practices or operations violate the Stark law or similar statutes, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from the Medicare programs and loss of government reimbursement. The imposition of any such penalties could harm our business. 

Another development affecting the health care industry is the increased use of the federal civil False Claims Act and, in particular, actions brought pursuant to the False Claims Act&#8217;s &#8220;whistleblower&#8221; or &#8220;qui tam&#8221; provisions. The False Claims Act, as amended by the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, imposes liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal health care program. We submit claims for services performed at our laboratories. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payor and not merely a federal health care program. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability arises, primarily, when an entity knowingly submits, or causes another to submit, a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The False Claims Act has been used to assert liability on the basis of inadequate care, kickbacks and other improper referrals, improper use of Medicare numbers when detailing the provider of services, and allegations as to misrepresentations with respect to the services rendered. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. We are unable to predict whether we would be subject to actions under the False Claims Act or a similar state law, or the impact of such actions. However, the costs of defending such claims, as well as any sanctions imposed, could significantly adversely affect our financial performance. 

Further, federal law prohibits any entity from offering or transferring to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary any remuneration that the entity knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary&#8217;s selection of a particular provider, practitioner or supplier of Medicare or Medicaid payable items or services, including waivers of copayments and deductible amounts (or any part thereof) and transfers of items or services for free or for other than fair market value. Entities found in violation may be liable for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each wrongful act. Although we believe that our sales and marketing practices are in material compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, relevant regulatory authorities may disagree and violation of these laws, or, our exclusion from such programs as Medicaid and other governmental programs as a result of a violation of such laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 

We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (&#8220;FCPA&#8221;), which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Our international activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, even though they may not always be subject to our control. We discourage these practices by our employees and agents. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. 

MANUFACTURING AND QUALITY 

Other than our facilities in Waterford, Ireland, Guadalajara, Mexico, Nesher, Israel, and Banyoles, Spain, we currently have no pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities. We have entered into agreements with various third parties for the formulation and manufacture of our pharmaceutical clinical supplies. These suppliers and their manufacturing facilities must comply with FDA regulations, current good laboratory practices (&#8220;cGLPs&#8221;) and current good manufacturing practices (&#8220;cGMPs&#8221;). We plan to outsource the manufacturing and formulation of our clinical supplies. 

The FDA and similar regulatory bodies may inspect our facilities and the facilities of those who manufacture on our behalf worldwide. If the FDA or similar regulatory bodies inspecting our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers find regulatory violations in manufacturing and quality control practices or procedures they may require us to cease partial or complete manufacturing operations until the violations are corrected. They may also impose restrictions on distribution of specific products until the violations are corrected. 

Our point-of-care diagnostic system consists of a disposable test cassette and an analyzer. We prepare all necessary test reagents and assemble and package the disposable cassettes at our facility in Woburn, Massachusetts. We rely on third parties for the manufacture of the analyzer. 

We are committed to providing high quality products to our customers, and we plan to meet this commitment by working diligently to continue implementing updated and improved quality systems and concepts throughout our organization. 

SALES &#38; MARKETING 

Our diagnostics business includes Bio-Reference&#8217;s 420-person sales force in the U.S. to drive growth and leverage new products, including the 4Kscore &#32;prostate cancer test and the Claros 1 &#32;in-office immunoassay platform. We currently do not have pharmaceutical sales or marketing personnel in the U.S., and we have limited personnel in Ireland, Chile, Spain, Mexico and Israel. In order to commercialize any pharmaceutical products that are approved for commercial sale, we must either build a sales and marketing infrastructure or collaborate with third parties with sales and marketing experience. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 5,936 full-time employees worldwide. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Code of Ethics 

We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We require all employees, including our principal executive officer and principal accounting officer and other senior officers and our employee directors, to read and to adhere to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in discharging their work-related responsibilities. Employees are required to report any conduct that they believe in good faith to be an actual or apparent violation of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our website at http://www.OPKO.com. 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge on or through our web site, at www.opko.com, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the SEC. Additionally, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C., 20549. Information regarding operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Information that we file with the SEC is also available at the SEC&#8217;s Web-site at www.sec.gov. 

