 Item 1. Business

General

Espey Mfg. &#38; Electronics Corp. (&#8220;Espey&#8221;) is a power electronics design and original equipment manufacturing (OEM) company with a long history of developing and delivering highly reliable products for use in military and severe industrial environment applications. Design, manufacturing, and testing is performed in our 150,000+ square foot facility located at 233 Ballston Ave, Saratoga Springs, New York. Espey is classified as a &#8220;smaller reporting company&#8221; for purposes of the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Espey&#8217;s common stock is publicly-traded on the NYSE MKT under the symbol &#8220;ESP.&#8221;

Espey began operations after incorporation in New York in 1928. We strive to remain competitive as a leader in high power energy conversion and transformer solutions through the design and manufacture of new and improved products by using advanced and &#8220;cutting edge&#8221; electronics technologies.

Espey is ISO 9001:2008 and AS9100:2009 certified. Our primary products are power supplies, power converters, filters, power transformers, magnetic components, power distribution equipment, UPS systems, antennas and high power radar systems. The applications of these products include AC and DC locomotives, shipboard power, shipboard radar, airborne power, ground-based radar, and ground mobile power.

Espey services include design and development to specification, build to print, design services, design studies, environmental testing services, metal fabrication, painting services, and development of automatic testing equipment. Espey is vertically integrated, meaning that the Company produces individual components (including inductors), populates printed circuit boards, fabricates metalwork, paints, wires, qualifies, and fully tests items, mechanically, electrically and environmentally, in house. Portions of the manufacturing and testing process are subcontracted to vendors from time to time.

In fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, the Company's total sales were $ 27,471,365 and $ 26 ,831,705 , respectively. Sales to two domestic customers accounted for 37% and 12% of total sales in 2016. Sales to three domestic customers accounted for 36%, 15% and 10% of total sales in 2015. A loss of a significant customer would negatively impact the financial performance of the Company. One significant customer is experiencing a significant decline in sales due to falling demand in its core locomotive business. This is discussed further in Item. 7 Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Export sales in 2016 and 2015 were approximately $2,125,000 and $2,384,000, respectively. This decrease is primarily due to the reduction in power supply shipments to specific customers.

Sources of Raw Materials

The Company has never experienced any significant delay or shortage with respect to the purchase of raw materials and components used in the manufacture of its products, and has at least two potential sources of supply for a majority of its raw materials. However, certain components used in its products are available from only a limited number of sources, and other components are only available from a single source. Despite the risk associated with limited or single source suppliers, the benefits of higher quality goods and timely delivery minimize and often limit any potential risk and can eliminate problems with part failures during production.

Sales Backlog

The total backlog at June 30, 2016 was approximately $39.1 million compared to approximately $ 36.4 million at June 30, 2015. The Company&#8217;s total backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value of work to be performed under firm contracts. The backlog was fully funded at June 30, 2016 and 2015. Funded backlog means items that have been authorized and appropriated by Congress and/or funded by the customer. There is no guarantee that future budgets and appropriations will provide funding for follow-on orders for a given program. The Company's backlog and risks associated with government contracts is discussed in greater detail in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contained in Item 7 below.

It is presently anticipated that a minimum of $ 23 million of orders comprising the June 30, 2016 backlog will be filled during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2017. The minimum of $ 23 million does not include any shipments, which may be made against orders subsequently received during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2017. The estimate of the June 30, 2016 backlog to be shipped in fiscal 2017 is subject to future events, which may cause the amount of the backlog actually shipped to differ from such estimate.

&#160;

2&#160;

&#160;

Marketing and Competition

The Company markets its products primarily through its own direct sales organization and through outside sales representatives. Business is solicited from large industrial manufacturers and defense companies, the government of the United States, foreign governments and major foreign electronic equipment companies. In certain countries the Company has external sales representatives to help solicit and coordinate foreign contracts. Espey is also on the eligible list of contractors with the United States Department of Defense and generally is automatically solicited by Defense Department procurement agencies for their needs falling within the major classes of products produced by the Company. In addition, the Company directly pursues opportunities from the United States Department of Defense for prime contracts. Espey contracts with the Federal Government under cage code 20950 as Espey Mfg. &#38; Electronics Corp.

There is competition in all classes of products manufactured by the Company from divisions of the largest electronic companies, as well as many small companies. The Company's sales do not represent a significant share of the industry's market for any class of its products. The principal methods of competition for electronic products of both a military and industrial nature include, among other factors, price, product performance, the experience of the particular company and history of its dealings in such products.

Our business is not seasonal. However, the concentration of our business in equipment for military and industrial applications and our customer concentrations expose us to on-going associated risks including, without limitation, dependence on appropriations from the United States Government and the governments of foreign nations, program allocations, and the potential of governmental termination of orders for convenience.

Uncertainty in federal defense spending and the current decline in the rail industry continues to drive competition. Many of our competitors have been aggressively investing in upfront product design costs and lowering profit margins as a strategic means of maintaining existing business and enhancing market share at the expense of short term profit. This change in the market place has put pressure on the pricing of our current products and will result in lower margins on new business and some of our legacy business. In order to compete effectively for new business, in some cases we invest in upfront design costs, thereby reducing initial profitability as a means of procuring new long-term programs. Accordingly, we have adjusted our pricing strategy in order to achieve a balance which enables us both to retain repeat programs while being more competitive in bidding on new programs. This trend will continue into fiscal 2017 and we continue to invest in new programs and aggressively quote long-term programs in an effort to grow the business.

Moreover, to address current elements of competition and foster growth we have made targeted hires of experienced personnel to support enhanced sales, program fulfillment, engineering, quality control and supply chain management.

Research and Development

The Company's expenditures for research and development were approximately $49,236 and $234,812 in fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively. Some of the Company's engineers and technicians spend varying degrees of time on either development of new products or improvements of existing products. A majority of these expenditures relate to research that is required by Espey engineers to support a request for a quotation from a customer having a product-specific custom need usually associated with stringent size and weight requirements. We do very little pure research as our business primarily is driven by customer product needs as opposed to new product development.

Employees

The Company had 145 employees as of September 12, 2016 . Approximately 40% of these employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local #1799. A new collective bargaining agreement was approved in July 2015. The three-year agreement expires on June 30, 2018. Relations with the Union are considered good.

Government Regulations

Compliance with federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, did not in fiscal year 2016, and the Company believes will not in fiscal year 2017, have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, net income, or competitive position of the Company.

The Company&#8217;s U.S. Government contract and subcontract orders are funded by government budgets, which operate on an October-to-September fiscal year. Normally, in February of each year, the President of the United States presents to Congress a proposed budget for the upcoming fiscal year. This budget includes recommended appropriations for every federal agency and is the result of months of policy and program reviews throughout the executive branch. From February through September of each year, the appropriations and authorization committees of Congress review the President&#8217;s budget proposals and establish the funding levels for the upcoming fiscal year in appropriations and authorization legislation. Once these levels are enacted into law, the Executive Office of the President administers the funds to the agencies.

3&#160;

&#160;

There are two primary risks associated with this process. First, the process may be delayed or disrupted because of congressional schedules, negotiations over funding levels for programs or unforeseen world events, which could, in turn, alter the funding for a program or contract. Second, funding for multi-year contracts can be changed by future appropriations, which could affect the timing of funds, schedules and program content.

Also, our international sales are denominated in United States dollars. Consequently, changes in exchange rates that strengthen the United States dollar could increase the price in local currencies of our products in foreign markets and make our products relatively more expensive than competitors&#8217; products.

U.S. Government Defense Contracts and Subcontracts

Generally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations. Some of the Company&#8217;s contracts are governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), which lays out uniform policies and procedures for acquiring goods and services by the U.S. Government, and agency-specific acquisition regulations that implement or supplement the FAR. For example, the Department of Defense implements the FAR through the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation (DFAR).

The FAR also contains guidelines and regulations for managing a contract after award, including conditions under which contracts may be terminated, in whole or in part, at the government&#8217;s convenience or for default. If a contract is terminated for the convenience of the government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. If a contract is terminated for default, the government generally pays for only the work it has accepted. These regulations also subject the Company to financial audits and other reviews by the government of its costs, performance, accounting and general business practices relating to its contracts, which may result in adjustment of the Company&#8217;s contract-related costs and fees.

