 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Business Development 

LKA International, Inc. was incorporated on March 15, 1988, in the State of Delaware. Since our inception, our authorized capital has been 100,000,000 shares, consisting of 50,000,000 shares of common stock with a par value of one mill ($0.001) per share, and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, also with a par value of one mill per share. LKA owns certain real and personal property interests including patented and unpatented mining claims, buildings, fixtures, improvements, equipment, and permits situated near Lake City, Colorado, which are described below. LKA's activities associated with these properties have been sporadic since they were acquired by its predecessor in December, 1982. 

The Lake City, Colorado Properties. 

The Ute-Ulay silver mine and milling facility and the Golden Wonder gold mine (respectively, the "Ute-Ulay Property" and the "Golden Wonder Property" or, collectively, the "Properties"), consist of certain patented and unpatented mining claims and a milling facility located in Hinsdale County, Colorado. In December, 1982, our predecessor, LKA Holdings, Inc., a Utah corporation ("LKA Utah") acquired a 51% interest in the Properties from Lake City Mines, Inc., a Colorado corporation ("Lake City Mines"), which retained the remaining 49% interest. Immediately after the acquisition, LKA Utah assigned 90% of its interest in the future proceeds that it had the right to receive from the Properties to Caldera Partners Limited Partnership, a Washington limited partnership ("Caldera") in return for approximately $1.6 million, which LKA used to develop the Properties. As a result, Caldera owned a 45.9% interest in the future proceeds that LKA Utah had the right to receive on the Properties. LKA's President, Kye A. Abraham, is Caldera's Managing Partner. Subsequent to a bankruptcy filing by Lake City Mines in February 1984, LKA acquired Lake City Mine&#8217;s interest in the Properties through a Sheriff&#8217;s sale. 

On March 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of Caldera's 45.9% interest in the Golden Wonder and Ute Ulay mines. Per the terms of the agreement, the Company agreed to issue Caldera 6,434,042 pre-split "unregistered" and "restricted" shares of common stock in exchange for Caldera's interest in the mines and the full satisfaction of all receivables due to Caldera from the Company. Caldera was also relieved of any future obligations to contribute further exploration and construction funds. 

&#160; 

- 3 - 

&#160; 

Description of Business 

LKA is currently engaged in an intensive exploration program at the Golden Wonder mine with the objective of returning the mine to a commercial producing status. The exploration program, which began in November 2008, has involved extensive sampling/assaying for the purpose of identifying possible new production zones within the mine. Exploration efforts are aimed at extending the high-grade zones (veins) within the mine that previously produced over 133,701 ozs. (82% of which came during the period of 2002-2006 at an average ore grade of 16.01 ozs. gold per ton). As the Golden Wonder vein system typically pinches and swells, horizontally as well as vertically, LKA&#8217;s objective/challenge will be to locate consistent vein widths within these high-grade zones to establish significant reserves to resume commercial production. Drilling and drifting along the vein structure has been the primary method of exploration to date. LKA expects to incorporate geochemical analysis, mapping (surface and underground) and other methods of exploration as its budget permits. Since resuming operations in the first quarter of 2009, LKA has, as of the date of this report, shipped and/or sold more than 35 bulk samples of crushed gold- bearing vein material containing 4,908 ounces of gold derived from exploratory mining operations. Net receipts from gold sales during exploration, after processing costs, total $5.175 million. Shipments for 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 are as follows: 

Grade 

&#160; Tons 

Oz/ton 

Gold (Oz) 

88 

3.82 

2010 

1.07 

2011 

1.44 

2012 

1.55 

1,335 

732 

1.13 

2014 

2.10 

2015 

1.95 

Shipments in transit or process may not result in receivables or finalized payment (&#8220;settlement&#8221;) at year end. Details of any such shipments will be reported in the subsequent quarter. Gold sales have offset a significant portion of the cost of the current exploration program. To date, all shipments of gold bearing vein material have been made to TCB International, Klondex Mines, Teck, Yukon- Nevada Gold, Kinross Gold Corp and Freeport McMoRan. Currently there are no established reserves and all of LKA&#8217;s efforts are exploratory in nature. In August, 2010, LKA entered into a Mine Operating Agreement (the &#8220;Operating Agreement&#8221;) with Coal Creek Construction (&#8220;Coal Creek&#8221;). The Operating Agreement calls for Coal Creek to provide mine operating services, including mining and underground construction, blasting, crushing, bagging, hauling, loading and transporting of vein material and associated waste material to locations specified by LKA. Per the Operating Agreement, Coal Creek pays all Mine Operator Services Expenses and is entitled to reimbursement for such expenses from LKA, provided LKA has received sufficient monies from gold sales. . In exchange for providing Mine Operator Services , Coal Creek is entitled to a payment equal to twenty percent of the project's net profits, or Net Smelter Receipts less deductions for Mine Operator Services, Royalties and Project-related Expenses, provided that Coal Creek has performed its service obligations and is current with its financial obligations and all other terms of its agreement with LKA. During and as of the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, LKA paid Coal Creek $431,822 and $725,602 for Mine Operator Services and accrued an additional $9,770 and $122,742 in remaining reimbursable expense related to gold shipments, respectively. 

Principal Products or Services and their Markets 

We do not currently have any products or services. 

Distribution Methods of the Products or Services 

None; not applicable. 

Status of any Publicly Announced New Product or Service 

None; not applicable. 

Competitive Business Conditions and Our Competitive Position in the Industry and Methods of Competition 

Management believes that there are literally hundreds of exploration-stage mining companies such as LKA. We believe that our competitive position in the industry will be insignificant. 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials and Names of Principal Suppliers 

We do not use any raw materials, as we do not directly conduct any material operations. 

&#160; 

- 4 - 

&#160; 

Dependence on One or a Few Major Customers 

In North America, there are a limited number of ore buyers capable of processing Golden Wonder ore efficiently. Accordingly, we are highly dependent upon securing and maintaining good sales terms with a relatively small number of customers, most of whom are major gold producers. Failure to obtain adequate terms of sale from these few customers would cause severe disruption to our operations. From 1984-2006 (initial exploration and commercial production) Golden Wonder ore and concentrates were sold almost exclusively to ASARCO and Barrick Gold Corp. During LKA&#8217;s current exploration program (2009-2015) the majority of sales were made to one customer, Kinross Gold Corp, with lesser amounts sold to Teck, Yukon-Nevada Gold, Freeport McMoRan, TCB International and Klondex Mines. During 2015, all of our sales were to Klondex Mines. 

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises, Concessions, Royalty Agreements or Labor Contracts, including 

Duration 

We have obtained "110d" limited impact permits from the Colorado Division of Reclamation Mining and Safety and have posted reclamation bonds to ensure the clean-up of environmental disturbances on the Golden Wonder Property. Storm water and discharge permits have also been issued to LKA for operations at the Golden Wonder mine property by the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. We are currently in compliance with all applicable permit and bonding requirements. 

Need for any Governmental Approval of Principal Products or Services 

None; not applicable. 

Effect of Existing or Probable Governmental Regulations on our Business 

We are subject to the following regulations of the SEC and applicable securities laws, rules and regulations: 

Smaller Reporting Company 

We are subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), and subject to the disclosure requirements of Regulation S-K of the SEC, as a &#8220;smaller reporting company.&#8221; That designation will relieve us of some of the informational requirements of Regulation S-K applicable to larger companies. 

Sarbanes/Oxley Act 

We are also subject to the Sarbanes/Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes/Oxley Act created a strong and independent accounting oversight board to oversee the conduct of auditors of public companies and strengthens auditor independence. It also requires steps to enhance the direct responsibility of senior members of management for financial reporting and for the quality of financial disclosures made by public companies; establishes clear statutory rules to limit, and to expose to public view, possible conflicts of interest affecting securities analysts; creates guidelines for audit committee members&#8217; appointment, compensation and oversight of the work of public companies&#8217; auditors; management assessment of our internal controls; auditor attestation to management&#8217;s conclusions about internal controls; prohibits certain insider trading during pension fund blackout periods; requires companies and auditors to evaluate internal controls and procedures; and establishes a federal crime of securities fraud, among other provisions. Compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes/Oxley Act has substantially increased our legal and accounting costs. 

Exchange Act Reporting Requirements 

Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act requires all companies with securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC regarding proxy solicitations, as outlined in Regulation 14A. Matters submitted to stockholders at special or annual meetings thereof or pursuant to a written consent will require us to provide our stockholders with the information outlined in Schedules 14A or 14C of Regulation 14; preliminary copies of this information must be submitted to the SEC at least 10 days prior to the date that definitive copies of this information are forwarded to our stockholders. 

&#160; 

- 5 - 

&#160; 

We are also required to file Annual Reports on SEC Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on SEC Form 10-Q with the SEC on a regular basis, and will be required to timely disclose certain material events (e.g., changes in corporate control; acquisitions or dispositions of a significant amount of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; and bankruptcy) in a Current Report on SEC Form 8-K. 

Research and Development Costs During the Last Two Fiscal Years 

We have not spent any money on research and development in the past five years and we do not plan to make any such expenditures in the foreseeable future. 

Cost and Effects of Compliance with Environmental Laws 

As the owner of permits pertaining to the Properties, we are subject to many federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality. For example, any mining operations conducted on the Properties must comply with federal and state laws and regulations that protect the quality of surface water and groundwater. 

The Colorado Division of Reclamation Mining and Safety (the "Division") requires mine operators to have permits to conduct mining activities in Colorado. The Division also requires operators to obtain a reclamation bond to ensure the clean-up of disturbances on mining properties and conducts regular inspections to make sure that the operators are in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. We have obtained all necessary bonds and permits required by the State of Colorado and believe that we are in compliance with all laws and regulations in this regard. However, we can provide no assurance as to the impact on LKA of any future environmental laws or regulations or any governmental interpretation of existing or future laws or regulations. 

Colorado Department of Health and Environment (&#8220;CDPHE&#8221;) Notice of Violation and Corrective Actions. 

During the fourth quarter of 2014, LKA received a Notice of Violation (&#8220;NOV&#8221;) from CDPHE for failure to meet certain requirements of the Company&#8217;s wastewater discharge permit. Specifically, the NOV asserts that LKA failed to properly monitor and report required effluent parameters during certain periods, beginning in the second quarter of 2010 and ending in the second quarter of 2012. The NOV further asserts that LKA failed to install flow measuring and charting devices to record a very small seasonal effluent &#8220;seep&#8221; emanating from the toe of the Golden Wonder waste dump. The seep, normally averaging less than 50 gpm at its max flow rate, is observable for fewer than 70 days during the spring run-off then dries up in early summer. During 2015, the Company undertook all corrective actions specified in the NOV, under CDPHE oversight, and believes it is in compliance with the terms of its permit. Upon completion of these corrective actions, CDPHE notified Company management during the fourth quarter of 2015, that significant financial penalties would be assessed for the period of alleged non-compliance. The notice of a substantive penalty assessment was unexpected by LKA management and inconsistent with previous CDPHE compliance related notices. Management has been actively engaged in settlement negotiations with CDPHE to determine a reasonable and situation-appropriate level of penalty assessment. It is currently expected that these discussions will be concluded within the next 30 days and that the financial penalty assessed will not likely be less than $75,000 but not more than $150,000. Management believes that this level of penalty is not situation-appropriate given the minor level and seasonality of the seep and the lack of observable and any measurable environmental impact. This will be the first time LKA has been assessed a financial penalty of significant size for any mining-related permit. 

Ute Ulay Reclamation 

In 2002, the Federal Bureau of Land Management (the "BLM") advised us of its desire to extend to the Ute-Ulay Property certain environmental clean-up (&#8220;remediation&#8221;) activities that it was conducting on neighboring properties that we do not own. The BLM commissioned and obtained three engineering evaluation and cost analysis ("EE/CA") studies/reports on the Ute-Ulay and the neighboring public lands in 2002-2006. These EE/CA studies analyzed the current environmental state of the Ute-Ulay property and other properties in the area. The studies identified a large volume of mine tailings and metals loading of shallow ground water, with elevated levels of arsenic, cadmium and lead being present. The BLM&#8217;s most recent study, &#8220;Value Engineering Study on the Ute Ulay Mine/Mill Site &#8211; Final Report&#8221; dated January 5, 2006, projected the costs of remediation and property stabilization on the Ute-Ulay property to be approximately $2.1 million. Based upon discussions to date with Hinsdale County officials, EPA&#8217;s regional manager and CDPHE, the actual costs associated with this recently completed remediation effort are expected to be approximately $1.2 million; substantially below previous BLM estimates. Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), the EPA may either require a property owner to perform the necessary cleanup or, as in this case, the agencies may perform the work and seek recovery of costs against the property owner and previous owners. While it cannot be determined with certainty until the EPA has completed the process, the Company&#8217;s status as a &#8220; de minimis&#8221; participant and the fact that remediation activities were focused on property located largely outside of LKA&#8217;s permitted operating area, management expects the final determination of liability (cost) for this remediation project will have a negligible impact on the Company&#8217;s financial condition. Accordingly, pursuant to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, no liability for this project has been recorded on the Company&#8217;s books and records. There can be, at this time, no guarantee that EPA will ultimately agree with management&#8217;s assessment of the Company&#8217;s liability. 

&#160; 

- 6 - 

&#160; 

Number of Total Employees and Number of Full Time Employees 

Kye A. Abraham is LKA's only full-time employee. Nanette K. Abraham is a part-time employee and assists with bookkeeping and administrative work. 

