 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

In November 2007, GeneThera, Inc. ( &#147; we &#148; , &#147; us &#148; , the &#147; Company &#148; or &#147; GeneThera &#148; ) reincorporated in the State of Nevada due to the fact that a third party had acquired the Company &#146; s prior Florida Corporate Charter and the fact that the Company was unable to regain the control of such Corporate Charter. We had a special meeting of shareholders where it was unanimously resolved for GeneThera to transfer its Charter to the State of Nevada as soon as possible in order to recognize our new incorporation on our next SEC filing. The reinstatement was completed by January 2008. 

Our common stock currently trades on the OTC &#147; Over-The-Counter &#148; pink market under the symbol GTHR. Our temporary office is located at 9101 Harlan Street Suite 130 in Westminster, CO 80031 and our telephone number is 303-439-2085. This office only answers the phone calls until our new laboratory space &#146; s new lease agreement and renovations are completed. 

For the fiscal year 2015, and as of now, the Company had one subsidiary, GeneThera, Inc., a Colorado corporation. GeneThera no longer has holds a commercial diagnostics laboratory in Mexico. 

COMPANY PROFILE 

GeneThera is a biotechnology company, dedicated to improving food safety by applying the latest molecular technologies to eradicate "cross-over"(zoonotic) diseases such as Johne's Disease, Mad Cow Disease, Chronic Wasting Disease, and E.coli. Diseases of terrestrial, avian and aquatic life animals influence a number of economic and global security issues; food for an increasing world population, access to international trade, species conservation and protection of those endangered, and economic growth in developing and re-organizing nations. Because many animal disease agents are zoonotic (transmissible between humans and animals, causing infection in both species), their management and prevention are crucial to improving public health on a global scale. The Company focuses on developing molecular diagnostic tests, therapeutics, and vaccines in the belief that better technologies and methodology need to be implemented to help control emerging diseases in animals and in humans, and believes that, if not, these diseases in animals will likely continue to cause serious and growing problems in terms of economics, human health and biodiversity.

GeneThera has developed proprietary diagnostic assays for use in the agricultural and veterinary markets. Specific assays for Chronic Wasting Disease (among elk and deer) and Mad Cow Disease (among cattle) have been developed and are available currently on a limited basis. E. coli (predominantly cattle) and Johne's disease (predominantly dairy cattle and bison) diagnostics are in development. GeneThera is making a pivotal shift from a Research and Development organization into a product marketing and revenue generating entity. The Company &#146; s previous strategy that we had maintained from inception to July 2008 had been one of research only. We focused all our energies, talent, and resources to the incubation and growth of new ideas in the realm of genetically engineered disease detection and vaccination. We feel that with recent announcements 

the Company is positioned to move from a developmental stage to a product oriented stage company, depending on reliable funding.

GeneThera provides genetics-based diagnostic and is currently working on vaccine solutions to meet the growing demands of today's veterinary industry and tomorrow's agriculture and healthcare industries. The Company is organized and operated both to continually apply its scientific research to more effective management of diseases and, in so doing, realize the commercial potential of molecular biotechnology. 

The Company believes it will require significant additional funding in order to achieve its business plan. Over the next 12 months, in order to have the capability of achieving its business plan, the Company will require at least $10,000,000 in additional funding. There are no guarantees that the Company will be able to secure such financing, and if the financing is secured, there are no guarantees whether the Company can fully achieve the goals laid out in its business plan.

Johne &#146; s Disease 

GeneThera &#146; s focus includes the diagnosis and treatment of Johne &#146; s disease.

Johne &#146; s disease is a worldwide problem of domestic animals primarily including dairy cattle, sheep and goats. A significant public health concern is associated with Johne's disease (JD), which results from an infection with bacteria called Mycobacterium paratuberculosis. This organism grows very slowly, causes a gradually worsening disease condition, and is highly resistant to the infected animal's immune defenses. Therefore, infected animals harbor the organism for years before they test positive or develop disease signs.

Major Factors related to Johne's disease:

&#183;

Worldwide Infection.

&#183;

Reduction in milk production to 25%+.

&#183;

High culling rate which increases costs.

&#183;

JD affects trade and hinders exports.

&#183;

Link between JD and Crohn &#146; s disease.

&#183;

Reduction in quality wool production in sheep.

&#183;

Highest at risk animals are young calves or pre-born.

&#183;

Bacterium can survive in contaminated soil for over 1 year.

&#183;

Spread in herds can occur by fecal contamination, colostrum, milk, and transplacental.

&#183;

Calves can become infected by suckling on &#147; dirty &#148; teats.

&#183;

For every one &#147; clinical stage &#148; in a herd there are 15-20 silently infected plus additional 6-8 carriers.

Stage I : Silent, subclinical, non-detectable infection. Typically this stage occurs in all calves, heifers, and young stock less than two years of age and many adult animals exposed to small doses of disease-causing organisms. Infected animals at this early stage 

are rarely detected with currently available diagnostic tests, including fecal culture or serologic tests (ELISA). This stage progresses slowly over many months or years to stage II.

Stage II : Subclinical infection. Typically this stage occurs in older heifers or adults. Animals at this stage appear healthy but are shedding adequate numbers of MAP organisms in their manure to be detected on fecal culture. Blood tests will detect some, but not all animals at this stage. Blood test (ELISA) positive animals should be confirmed positive by fecal culture.

Stage III : Clinical JD. It is categorized as any animal with advanced infection the onset which is often associated with a period of stress such as recent calving. Cattle at this stage have intermittent, watery pea-soup manure. Animals lose weight and gradually drop in milk production, but continue to have a good appetite. Some animals appear to recover but often relapse in the next stress period. Most of these animals are shedding billions of organisms and are positive on culture. Most are positive on serologic tests (ELISA &#38; AGID). Clinical signs often last several weeks to months before the animals are sent to slaughter in a thin, emaciated condition. In the final and terminal aspects of stage III of the fatal disease, animals become emaciated with fluid diarrhea and develop &#147; bottle jaw. &#148; The carcass may not pass meat inspection for human consumption in the later phases of stage III.

Crohn &#146; s Disease 

Crohn's disease (also known as Crohn-Le&#347;niowski Disease, or "Charlotte Forditis" morbus Le&#347;niowski-Crohn, granulomatous and regional enteritis) is an inflammatory disease of the intestines that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from anus to mouth, causing a wide variety of symptoms. It primarily causes abdominal pain, diarrhea (which may be bloody), vomiting, or weight loss, but may also cause complications outside of the gastrointestinal tract such as skin rashes, arthritis, and inflammation of the eye.

Crohn's disease is an autoimmune disease, in which the body's immune system attacks the gastrointestinal tract, causing inflammation; it is classified as a type of inflammatory bowel disease. There has been evidence of a genetic link to Crohn's disease, putting individuals with siblings afflicted with the disease at higher risk. It is understood to have a large environmental component as evidenced by the higher number of cases in western industrialized nations. Males and females are equally affected. Smokers are three times more likely to develop Crohn's disease than non-smokers. Crohn's disease affects between 400,000 and 600,000 people in North America. Prevalence estimates for Northern Europe have ranged from 27 &#150; 48 per 100,000. Crohn's disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties, with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies; although, the disease can occur at any age. 

Similar to Johne &#146; s disease in cattle, no known pharmaceutical or surgical cure for Crohn's disease currently exists for humans. Furthermore, new discoveries of MAP have been 

found in human patients and we believe that individuals that are genetically predisposed could possibly be contracting the disease through digestion of Johne &#146; s disease - infected milk.

BUSINESS MODEL 

GeneThera has developed proprietary diagnostic assays for use in the agricultural and veterinary markets. Specific assays for Chronic Wasting Disease (among elk and deer) and Mad Cow Disease (among cattle) have been developed and are available currently on a limited basis. E. coli (predominantly cattle) and Johne's disease (predominantly dairy cattle and bison) diagnostics are in development. GeneThera is making a pivotal shift from a Research and Development organization into a product marketing and revenue generating entity, depending on reliable source of funding. The Company &#146; s previous strategy that we had maintained from inception to July, 2008 had been one of research only. We focused all our energies, talent, and resources to the incubation and growth of new ideas in the realm of genetically engineered disease detection and vaccination. We feel that with recent announcements the Company is positioned to move from a developmental stage to a product oriented stage company once funding is secured.

GeneThera provides genetics-based diagnostic and is currently working on vaccine solutions to meet the growing demands of today's veterinary industry and tomorrow's agriculture and healthcare industries. The Company is organized and operated both to continually apply its scientific research to more effective management of diseases and, in so doing, realize the commercial potential of molecular biotechnology. 

GeneThera animal disease assay development business is based on its Integrated Technology Platform (ITP) that combines a proprietary diagnostic solution called Gene Expression System (GES) with PURIVAX, its system for analyzing large-scale DNA sequencing. The first part of this platform is the ongoing development of molecular diagnostic assays solutions using real time Fluorogenic Polymerase Chain Reaction (F-PCR) technology to detect the presence of infectious disease from the blood of live animals. The second part of the ITP is the development of therapeutic vaccines using RNA interference technology. Interference RNA technology is a new technique that is based on the use of short RNA sequences complementary to a specific target gene. Once the RNA sequence binds to the gene, the gene is deactivated or &#147; silenced &#148; and no longer able to produce the specific protein. It also allows for the efficient, effective, and continuous testing, management and treatment of animal populations. These facts distinguish the technology from any alternative testing and management methodology available to agriculture today -- all of which require the destruction of individual animals and even entire herds. Our testing and data analysis processes also allow us not only to separate infected from clean animals, but also to gain knowledge vital to development of preventative vaccines.

Each individual assay utilizes the proprietary Field Collection System (FCS) for the collection and transportation of blood samples to GeneThera laboratory. This system consists of two (2) tubes. A 5 milliliter (ml) red cap tube containing 1ml anticoagulant 

solution and a 10 ml white cap tube. One (1) ml of blood is collected from the animal and added to the red cap tube. Ten (10ml) of milk is collected into the white cap tube. The FCS allows GeneThera to maintain the integrity of each sample by the addition of specific reagents to test tubes contained in the system. GeneThera FCS is designed to be an easy-to-use method of gathering blood samples from harvested or domesticated animals. It ensures consistency of samples as well as increased assurance of each sample's integrity.

To date, GeneThera has successfully developed the ability to detect Chronic Wasting Disease, a disease affecting elk and deer in North America. The release of commercialized Field Collection Systems and laboratory diagnostic testing occurred in October of 2003 as a marketing trial. GeneThera has also successfully developed an assay for the detection of Mad Cow Disease, a disease recently found in the United States, but which has been in Europe for many years. The Field Collection Systems are available for purchase from the Company. Chronic Wasting Disease and Mad Cow Disease are both in the family of diseases called Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy (TSE). Diagnostic assays for E. coli O157:H7 and Johne's disease are in the final stages of development.

The Company, through GeneThera, is also developing vaccines for Chronic Wasting Disease and E. coli O157:H7. The Company will need the approval of the USDA before the vaccines can be manufactured or sold. The approval process for animal vaccines is time-consuming and expensive. We anticipate that such approval, if it is obtained, may require more than $5 million and may require more than two years for each vaccine for which approval is sought. Currently, we do not have the capital necessary to seek approval of any of our candidate vaccines, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to raise the capital necessary for such approval on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, even if we are successful in raising the capital necessary to seek approval of any vaccine, there are no assurances that such an approval will be granted, or if granted, whether we will be able to produce and sell such vaccines following such an approval in commercial quantities or to make a profit from such production and sales.

INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY PLATFORM (ITP) 

GeneThera &#146; s Integrated Technology Platform (ITP) is the foundation for &#147; fast-track &#148; rDNA vaccine development. We are currently working on the development of a recombinant DNA vaccine for Johne &#146; s disease. Johne &#146; s disease is a chronic debilitating infectious disease of ruminants, characterized by weight loss and, particularly in cattle, by profuse diarrhea. The causal agent is a bacterium, Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis. Infected animals may show no sign of the disease until years after the initial infection. Johne &#146; s is a slow, progressive disease with worldwide distribution.

The vaccine development is in the &#147; in vitro &#148; or pre-clinical stage. We expect to initiate experimental animal studies for Johne &#146; s disease in the next 36-48 months. ITP combines the following technologies: 1) gene expression system technology or &#147; GES &#148; ; 2) viral DNA purification technology or PURIVAX technology; 3) genetically engineered Adenovirus (rAD) and recombinant Adeno Associate Virus (rAAV) systems (vectors). 

This integrated technology platform yields fast-track vaccine development. Leveraging its ITP, GeneThera believes that it can develop a prototype vaccine within 18 months versus the current standard of 24 to 36. We estimate that the cost to bring these vaccines to market is $5-7 million. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to bring a vaccine to market and if the capital is raised, that we will be able to comply with the government regulations involved in bringing such a product to market. The GES applied modular unit system utilizes robotics and is based on nucleic acid extraction in conjunction with F-PCR technology to develop gene expression assays. Using GES assays, vaccine efficacy can be measured quickly because it will be unnecessary to wait for the antibody response to measure how well the vaccine is working. F-PCR will allow effective quantification of the precise number of viral or bacterial genetic particles before, during and after vaccine injection(s). We anticipate that the more effective the vaccine is, the stronger the decrease of the infectious disease particles will be.

GES SYSTEM 

GES is a proprietary assay development system. To date, the system has been used to develop our TSE and Johne &#146; s disease molecular assay. GES is a gene expression system to be used in our laboratory and will be marketed for commercial sale under the trade name HERDCHECK. The core of GES is Fluorogenic Polymerase Chain Reaction technology (F-PCR). GeneThera approaches the technical problems related to the use of conventional PCR in molecular diagnostics via our modular unit concept. Specifically, the modular unit consists of an Automated Nucleic Acid Workstation (ANAW) and a Sequence Detection System (SDS) that are integrated, allowing an operator to perform the entire procedure of DNA extraction and F-PCR analysis within a closed computerized system. This system results in minimal intervention and non-post-PCR manipulation. GES is a molecular genetic base system that utilizes Fluorogenic Polymerase Chain Reaction (F-PCR). Fluorogenic PCR (F-PCR) is a technology based on sequence specific hybridization between a nucleic acid target and a fluorogenic probe, a short sequence of DNA chemically treated to generate light at a specific wavelength, complementary to the target sequence. The probe consists of an oligonucleotide, a short synthetic DNA molecule, with two fluorescent molecules (a reporter and quencher dye) attached to both ends of the oligonucleotide. Due to the unique design of the Fluorogenic probe, the activity of the Taq Polymerase enzyme allows direct detection of PCR products by the release of the fluorogenic reporter during PCR. The reporter and the quencher dye are linked at the end of the probe. When the probe is intact, the proximity of the reporter dye to the quencher dye results in a suppression of the reporter fluorescence. During PCR, if the target of interest is present, the probe specifically anneals between the forward and the reverse primer site. The nuclease activity of the Taq DNA Polymerase cleaves the probe between the reporter and the quencher only if the region binds to the target. If the probe is not bound then no cleavage occurs. After cleavage, the shortened probe dissociates from the target and the polymerization of the DNA strand continues. This process occurs in every cycle and does not interfere with the exponential accumulation of the product. The cleavage of the oligonucleotide between the reporter and the quencher dye results in an increase of fluorescence of the reporter 

that is directly proportional to the amount of the product accumulated. The specificity of this 5 &#146; nuclease assay results from the requirement of sequence complementary between probe and template in order for cleavage to occur. Thus, the fluorogenic signal is generated only if the target sequence of the probe is generated by PCR. No signal is generated by non-specific amplification.

To perform GES, specific laboratory equipment is needed. This involves some substantial initial costs to set up the laboratory operations. We have performed this substantial set up and will be fully operational again to perform GES, once the laboratory renovations are completed. We currently have an exclusive worldwide collaboration agreement with Hudson Robotics, Inc., which will provide the specific equipment necessary to further development. However, the use of F-PCR represents a great advantage over other available systems because of its greater sensitivity, speed, and accuracy.

The Automated Nucleic Acid Workstation is a highly flexible robotic system that extracts and purifies acids from a variety of complex samples, preparing them for F-PCR analysis. Data management system software includes a database to manage all run phases and record sample processing.

The Sequence Detection System detects the fluorescent signal generated by the cleavage of the reporter dye during each PCR cycle. This process confers specificity without the need of post-PCR hybridization. Most importantly, the SDS offers the advantage of monitoring real-time increases in fluorescence during PCR processing. Specifically, monitoring real-time progress of the PCR completely changes the approach to PCR-based quantitation of DNA and RNA, most particularly, in improving the precision in both detection and quantitation of DNA and RNA targets.

GeneThera currently faces limited competition in the use of F-PCR technology and the modular unit concept for commercial testing of either infectious disease in animals or food pathogen contamination. Currently, most labs utilize conventional microbiology, immunological or conventional PCR methods for either veterinary diseases or food pathogen contamination detection. Specific to microbiology and immunological techniques, the drawbacks of these approaches are:

1.

The antibodies-based culture media used to detect the presence of infectious 

diseases has a low level of sensitivity; and

2. High background due to non-specific binding of antibodies and/or culture 

contamination; sample preparation and storage creates artifacts; and long, cumbersome protocols necessary to perform these tests.

A major technical limitation of conventional PCR is the risk of contaminating a specimen with the products of previously amplified sequences. Known as cross-contamination, this phenomenon represents a constant challenge to any lab using conventional PCR. Managing these challenges is cumbersome and difficult to streamline. Fluorogenic PCR (F-PCR) attempts to overcome these drawbacks by making it possible for PCR to 

efficiently test large numbers of samples even when major laboratory facilities are not readily available. A novel methodology, F-PCR allows quantitative and qualitative detection of specific nucleic acid sequences in a sensitive, accurate, and rapid fashion.

PURIVAX TECHNOLOGY 

GeneThera has developed a large-scale process for highly purified and high viral titer (viral concentration) Adenovirus and AAV genetically engineered viruses. This technology enables GeneThera to develop Adenovirus and AAV-based recombinant DNA vaccines for veterinary diseases and food pathogens. GeneThera &#146; s PURIVAX is a purification system that dramatically improves biological purity and viral titer of recombinant Adenovirus and AAV vectors. PURIVAX is intended to completely eliminate toxic side effects associated with Adenoviruses and AAV vectors, thereby making it possible to develop highly immunogenic and safe recombinant DNA vaccines. Importantly, recombinant DNA (rDNA) vaccine technology represents a powerful tool for an innovative vaccine design process known as &#147; genetic immunization. &#148; 

Recombinant Adenovirus (rAD) and AAV (rAAV) vectors are the ideal candidates for a gene delivery system. These viruses can efficiently deliver genetic material to both dividing and non-dividing cells, thereby overcoming some of the obstacles encountered with first generation retroviral vectors.

Equally important, rAD and rAAV are engineered virus genomes that contain no viral gene. One of the key features for rAD and rAAV is their ability to infect a large variety of cells. However, two technical challenges had to be overcome to fully utilize rAD and rAAV in the development of rDNA vaccines:

1.

Lack of large scale purification system; and

2. Low viral titer.

Traditional technologies and first generation chromatography processes are limited both in terms of purity and yield. And, due to the limitation of these purification technologies, adequate viral titers cannot be achieved. We believe that the result is that there is currently no efficient system to deliver immunogenic genetic sequences into cells.

This is the significance of GeneThera &#146; s PURIVAX, rAD and rAAV system for rDNA vaccine development. Succinctly stated, it is designed to be able to achieve both high purity and high viral titer (up to 10e16 viral particles/eulate) based on its propriety multi-resin anion exchange chromatography system. GeneThera believes that biological contaminants such as endogenous retrovirus, bacterial, mycoplasma, non-specific nucleic acids, lipids, proteins, carbohydrates and endotoxins are eliminated during the purification process.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 

GeneThera provides a comprehensive Johne &#146; s solution that allows diagnosing, treating and managing herds at risk or already infected with Johne &#146; s disease.

Our proprietary Integrated Product Development Platform (IPDP) is design to prevent the spread of Johne &#146; s disease to healthy animals and at the same time allow to better control the disease in those herds where the disease is already present.

More importantly we believe that the GeneThera platform can prevent the spread of the Mycobacterium into the food chain. An important part of this strategy is GeneThera &#146; s ability to detect the presence of a low number of infected particles in milk tested for the presence of the Mycobacterium Paratuberculosis. Therefore, our IPDP not only is able to detect Johne &#146; s infected animals, but can also prevent potential human infections.

HERD GUARD 

Herd Guard is our comprehensive Johne &#146; s management solution that includes a diagnostic (HerdCheck), a therapeutic (HerdSafe), and a management system (HerdSoft) to eradicate or mitigate Johne &#146; s disease.

HERDCHECK (Molecular Test) 

HerdCheck is our diagnostic product. Samples are collected using a Field Collection System with includes specific collection tubes and ship to a GeneThera laboratory for processing.

The major features of the testing system are:

High throughput system.

Capable of more than 20,000 tests per month.

Highly defined and structured testing system.

Proprietary Real Time PCR technology.

HERDSAFE (Genetic Therapy) 

HerdSafe is our therapeutic product. HerdSafe is the large-scale purification and recombinant based DNA vaccine using Adenovirus and AVV genetically engineered viruses. (PURIVAX)

HERDSOFT (Software Management) 

HerdSoft is our comprehensive Johne &#146; s disease management solution which is a web-based product connected to our data center. The management system will deliver results, collect data and incorporate environmental analysis to guide the client on therapy and management of their herd to control Johne &#146; s disease in their facility.

DEVELOPMENTS TO DATE 

HerdCheck 

GeneThera has developed a molecular system for the detection of Johne &#146; s disease in milk, blood and feces of dairy cows infected with the Mycobacterium paratuberculosis sub. Avium. (MAP). Samples from milk obtaining from supermarket shelves were either &#147; spiked &#146; with different concentrations of MAP or &#145; naturally processed. The bacterial DNA was isolated using both, manual and robotic- based DNA extraction procedures and analyzed using The Real Time PCR technology. Using this methodology we can detect between two (2) and twenty (20) bacterial particles from 10 ml of milk. We believe that our test will be very useful for early detection of MAP both in milk samples and infected cows.

We are currently evaluating several robotic systems for DNA extraction. We believe that we can further increase the sensitivity of the molecular assay by using robotic driven DNA extraction methods.

HerdSoft 

To date, we have developed a prototype computer program to track samples that will be received and processed in our commercial laboratory. This program will initially be used to track samples that will be sent out and received to our laboratory. We had to stop our timeline waiting for secured funding. We will then work on improving the system in order to track samples during the different phases of DNA extraction procedures. In addition, we will continue to develop a data base system to store and analyze data collected during sample analysis.

HerdSafe 

We are currently developing a vaccine for Johne &#146; s disease. GeneThera &#146; s approach for developing this vaccine is based on the use of PURIVAX technology, genetically engineered Adenoviral and AVV, and silencing RNA technology (iRNA). To date, we have modified the Adenovirus by inserting a gene of the MAP bacterium responsible for triggering the infection in blood cell.

However, at the present time, we do not have sufficient financial resources to implement further development work; therefore, we will need to secure substantial funding to continue the development of the Johne &#146; s vaccine. 

Disease and FUTURE DEVELOPMENT PLANS 

We anticipate that research and development (R&#38;D) will be the source for both assay development and vaccine design/development. If we are able to develop assays for different diseases, we intend to formalize the procedure into a commercial application through a series of laboratories to be owned and operated by GeneThera. To date, we 

have introduced our diagnostic solution for Chronic Wasting Mad Cow Disease on a very limited basis. We anticipate that R&#38;D will be ongoing during the life of the Company, as this is the source for new products to be introduced to the market. Our plan is to seek new innovations in the biotechnology field. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or validating any new assays or, if we are successful in developing and validating any such assays, that we can successfully commercialize them or earn profits from sales of those assays. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to design, develop, or successfully commercialize any vaccines as a result of our research and development efforts. 

It is GeneThera &#146; s intention to continue with the research and development and validation of the molecular tests and DNA vaccines. Future plans comprises in initiating validation procedures for Johne &#146; s disease molecular test. These validation protocols will be performed in our laboratory in Colorado.

In parallel, we will continue R&#38;D phases for the Johne &#146; s disease vaccine. We plan initiating an experimental animal protocol to determine the safety of our vaccines. We estimate that the experimental animal protocol may take up to a year. We project to initiate the experimental animal &#146; s studies within 18-36 months.

R&#38;D SERVICES 

Molecular, Cellular, Viral Biology Research and Consulting Services : We provide independent research services to scientists in academia, the pharmaceutical industry, and the biotechnology industry. Primarily, GeneThera expertise focuses on technology relevant to animal and human immunotherapy. These services are backed by the cumulative experiences of greater than 50 years of research and development in both government and industry by GeneThera senior scientists. GeneThera intends to develop a commercial-scale implementation of Adenovector Purification Process to support R&#38;D material production. Furthermore, GeneThera intends to evaluate and test commercially available expression vectors and incorporate them into its vector repertoire. These technologies are well established within the repertoire of GeneThera scientific staff. We cannot provide any assurance, however, that we will be able to successfully offer these services or that, if offered, we can provide them profitably. 

Research &#38; Development Services :

Molecular Biology: 

Synthetic cDNA Construction

Prokaryotic Expression Vector Construction &#38; Development

E. coli Expression Strain Evaluation

Pilot Scale Fermentation

Mammalian Expression Vector Construction &#38; Development

Baculovirus Expression

Protein Isolation

Protein Engineering: Complement Determining Region Conjugated Proteins

Monoclonal Antibody Production Chimerization &#38; Humanization

Vector design for Prokaryotic Expression of Antibody Fragments (Fab) and Single Chain Antibody (ScFv) 

Pilot Scale-up Development

Process Purification &#38; Characterization

Assay Development &#38; Quality Control Pharmaceutical Dosage and Formulation

Gene Therapy Testing Services : GeneThera offers GLP (Good Laboratory Procedure) testing programs for somatic cell, viral and naked DNA-based gene therapies. Our scientists have over twenty years of experience in providing fully integrated bio-safety testing programs for the cell and gene therapy fields. To date, the Company has not generated any revenues with regard to these services, and there is no assurance that we will generate any revenues from such services.

Replication-Competent Viral Vector Testing : Sensitive in vitro cell culture assays are used to detect replication-competent retroviruses or adenoviruses. GeneThera can work with clients to provide custom replication-competent virus detection assays for the particular vector construct.

Complete Somatic Cell and Viral Vector Packaging and Producer Cell Line Characterization : GeneThera offers all of the assays mandated by regulatory authorities worldwide for the bio-safety analysis and characterization of cells and cell lines used in gene therapy products.

Vector Stock Characterization : Custom purity and potency testing is available for gene therapy viral vector stocks.

Vector Purification Process Validation for Viral Clearance : Most biopharmaceuticals require viral clearance studies to validate the removal of potential contaminants, such as those from bovine components or from helper viruses (adenovirus in AAV production). GeneThera can provide custom design and performance of viral studies for various vector purification processes.

Custom Bio-safety Testing Programs for Somatic Cell, Ex Vivo Cell, and Tissue Therapies : GeneThera can guide our clients through the unique process of designing and implementing a bio-safety testing program that meets the needs of each specific project.

GeneThera is currently seeking contracts for these services to be performed on an annual basis. There is no assurance that any contracts will be signed or that the Company will generate significant revenues or profits from any such contracts.

MARKETING STRATEGY 

GeneThera &#146; s goal is to focus on the international markets, primarily Pacific Rim and Europe, for the commercialization of its animal testing platform. The company has no plans to offer any veterinary services in the United States.

Our marketing approach is to align ourselves with both, the private sector and government agencies.

SALES AND MARKETING 

Our sales and marketing efforts will be primarily in Europe and Pacific Rim (New Zealand and Australia). 

COMMERCIAL DIAGNOSTIC TESTING 

In the event that we are able to develop assays for the detection of diseases in animals, we intend to establish a series of diagnostic testing laboratories geographically proximate to the primary sources of individual diseases and/or according to specific available operating efficiencies. The specific number of labs to be built and operated will be based on assay demand (demand facilitated by the number of specific disease assays GeneThera develops), our ability to obtain the capital to build the labs, and our ability to successfully manage them from our principal office. As of the date of this filing, we are in negotiations to establish one diagnostic testing laboratory outside of our Colorado facility.

LICENSING 

Through our licensing division, we intend to manage the marketing and sale of the vaccines developed by our R&#38;D. As GeneThera does not intend to be a vaccine manufacturer, we plan to use our licensing division to license the technology related to any vaccines that may be developed and to manage the revenue potential available from the successful development and validation of specific vaccines. We cannot provide any assurance that we will develop any vaccines or that, if they are developed, we will be able to license them successfully or that any such license will produce significant revenues.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

We do not own any patents on any of our technology and have not filed any applications for patents in any country. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to file any patent applications or that, if we file one or more applications for patents, any patents will issue or that, if issued, the claims granted in any such patents will afford us adequate protection against competitors with similar technology.

We also depend upon the skills, knowledge, and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, none of which is patentable. To help protect our proprietary know-how, which is not patentable, and for inventions for which patents may be difficult to endorse, we rely on trade secret protection to shield our interests.

COMPETITION 

We face competition from many companies, universities, and research institutions in the United States and abroad. Virtually, all of our competitors have substantially greater resources, experience in product commercialization, and obtaining regulatory approvals 

for their products, operating experience, research and development, marketing capabilities, and manufacturing capabilities that we do. We will face competition from companies marketing existing products or developing new products for diseases targeted by our technologies. The development of new products for those diseases for which we are attempting to develop products could render our product candidates noncompetitive and obsolete. 

Our current competitors include primarily, IDEXX Laboratories, Inc., Academic and government institutions are also carrying out a significant amount of research in the field of veterinary health, particularly in the field of Johne &#146; s disease. We anticipate that these institutions will become more aggressive in pursuing patent protection and negotiating licensing arrangements to collect royalties for use of technology that they have developed and to market commercial products similar to those that we seek to develop, either on their own or in collaboration with competitors. Any resulting increase in the cost or decrease in the availability of technology or product candidates from these institutions may affect our business.

Competition with respect to our veterinary technologies and potential products is and will be based, among other things, on effectiveness, safety, reliability, availability, price, and patent protection. Another important factor will be the timing of market introduction of products that we may develop and for which we may receive regulatory approval. Accordingly, the speed with which we can develop products, complete the required animal studies or trials and approval processes and ultimately supply commercial quantities of the products to the market is expected to be an important competitive factor. Our competitive position will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, to obtain patent protection or otherwise develop propriety products or processes, and to secure sufficient capital resources for the often-substantial period between technological conception and commercial sales.

Several attempts have been made to develop technologies that compete with F-PCR. To our knowledge none of these technologies have resulted to date in any product available on the market. The field of biotechnology is very dynamic. The possibility that more advanced technologies could be developed into products that may compete with ours is very strong. However, it is very difficult to predict the length of time necessary for this scenario to take place.

MANUFACTURING 

We do not manufacture any products. We do not intend to establish a manufacturing facility to manufacture any products that we may develop anywhere in the world. We do not intent to manufacture, sell, and distribute any diagnostic or therapeutic product in the United States in the foreseeable future. 

PRODUCT LIABILITY 

The testing, manufacturing, and marketing of the Company &#146; s proposed products involves an inherent risk of product liability attributable to unwanted and potentially serious health effects in animals that may receive any vaccines that we may develop and market. To the extent we elect to test, manufacture, or market veterinary vaccines and other products, we will bear the risk of product liability directly. We do not currently have product liability insurance. There is no guarantee that we can obtain product liability insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all, or that the amount of such insurance will be adequate to cover any liability that we may be exposed to. In the absence of such insurance, one or more product liability lawsuits against us can be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in our ceasing operations.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

Our unique approach to the testing for various animal diseases allows us to begin commercialization of its diagnostic tests without the need for a long and enduring approval process from the USDA. However, it is our intention not to seek, in the foreseeable future, any approval either from the USDA or the FDA for any of the products we develop both, diagnostic or therapeutic. It is our intention to perform any validation or clinical trials of our product abroad and primarily in Europe and Pacific Rim where our commercial operation will also be located. Our commercial laboratories will require a validation study to be performed to demonstrate the effectiveness of the system. Validation studies will be performed according to each country &#146; s guidelines. We have submitted an application outlining a protocol for animal studies. Validation studies will be conducted in collaboration with each country &#146; s government guidelines. We expect to communicate with the public about the validation study &#146; s commencement and completion within the next 18-36 month period. 

&#160; 

