 Item 1. 

Business 

Overview 

Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc is an international biopharmaceutical company focused on improving patients&#8217; lives by identifying, developing and commercializing meaningful products that address unmet medical needs. 

We have a diverse portfolio of products and product candidates, with a focus in the areas of sleep and hematology/oncology. 

Our lead marketed products are: 

&#8226; 

Xyrem &#174; &#32;(sodium oxybate) oral solution , the only product approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for the treatment of both cataplexy and excessive daytime sleepiness, or EDS, in patients with narcolepsy; 

&#8226; 

Erwinaze &#174; &#32;(asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi ) , a treatment approved in the U.S. and in certain markets in Europe (where it is marketed as Erwinase &#174; ) for patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, or ALL, who have developed hypersensitivity to E. coli -derived asparaginase; and 

&#8226; 

Defitelio &#174; (defibrotide) , a product approved in Europe for the treatment of severe hepatic veno-occlusive disease, or VOD, in adults and children undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, or HSCT, therapy. 

Our strategy is to create shareholder value by: 

&#8226; 

&#32;Growing sales of the existing products in our portfolio, including by identifying and investing in growth opportunities such as new treatment indications; 

&#8226; 

&#32;Acquiring clinically meaningful and differentiated products that are on the market or product candidates that are in late-stage development; and 

&#8226; 

Pursuing targeted development of post-discovery differentiated product candidates. 

We apply a disciplined approach to allocating our resources between investments in our current commercial and development portfolio and acquisitions or in-licensing of new assets. 

Our research and development activities currently include clinical development of new product candidates, activities related to line extensions and new indications for existing products and the generation of additional clinical data for existing products. A summary of our ongoing development activities is provided below: 

Project 

Disease Area 

Status 

Sleep 

&#160; 

&#160; 

JZP-110 

EDS in narcolepsy 

Phase 3 clinical trial initiated in second quarter of 2015; preliminary data expected in fourth quarter of 2016 

&#160; 

EDS in obstructive sleep apnea, or OSA 

Two Phase 3 clinical trials initiated in second quarter of 2015; preliminary data expected in fourth quarter of 2016 

JZP-386 

EDS in narcolepsy 

Phase 1 clinical trials completed; further evaluation ongoing 

Xyrem 

Cataplexy with narcolepsy in children and adolescents 

Phase 3 clinical trial ongoing; enrollment completion expected in second half of 2016 

Hematology/Oncology 

&#160; 

Defibrotide 

VOD with evidence of multi-organ dysfunction following HSCT 

New drug application, or NDA, accepted for filing with priority review by the FDA in third quarter of 2015; Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, date of March 31, 2016 

Defibrotide 

Prevention of VOD in high-risk patients 

Preparing to initiate clinical trial 

Our Products 

Xyrem 

Xyrem is the only treatment approved by the FDA for both EDS and cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy. Sodium oxybate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Xyrem, is a formulation of the sodium salt of gamma-hydroxybutyrate, or GHB, an endogenous neurotransmitter and metabolite of gamma-aminobutyric acid. Xyrem was approved in the U.S. for the treatment of cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy in 2002 and was approved for EDS in patients with narcolepsy in 2005. The American Academy of Sleep Medicine recommended Xyrem as a standard of care for the treatment of both EDS and cataplexy associated with narcolepsy. 

Narcolepsy is a chronic neurological disorder caused by a loss of neurons that produce the neurotransmitter hypocretin (also known as orexin), which is hypothesized to stabilize sleep-wake states. The primary symptoms of narcolepsy include EDS, cataplexy, sleep paralysis, hypnogogic hallucinations and disrupted nighttime sleep. EDS is an essential symptom of narcolepsy, is present in all narcolepsy patients and is characterized by chronic, pervasive sleepiness as well as sudden irresistible and overwhelming urges to sleep (inadvertent naps and sleep attacks). Cataplexy, the sudden loss of muscle tone, can be one of the most debilitating symptoms of narcolepsy. Cataplexy is present in approximately 70% of patients with narcolepsy. Cataplexy can range from slight weakness or a drooping of facial muscles to the complete loss of muscle tone resulting in postural collapse. It may also impair a patient&#8217;s vision or speech. Cataplexy is often triggered by strong emotions such as laughter, anger or surprise. Cataplexy can severely impair a patient&#8217;s quality of life and ability to function. 

Narcolepsy may affect many areas of life, including limiting a patient&#8217;s education and employment opportunities and leading to driving or machinery accidents or difficulties at work resulting in disability or job dismissal. Patients with narcolepsy may also suffer from significant medical comorbidities, including depression, suicide risk, anxiety, diseases of the digestive system, respiratory diseases and cardiac disorders. 

It is estimated that narcolepsy affected approximately 1 in 2,000 people in the U.S., or approximately 160,000 people, in 2015. Less than half of those people have been definitively diagnosed with narcolepsy. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the average number of active Xyrem patients in the U.S. was approximately 12,550 patients, and we believe that there are significantly more narcoleptic patients with cataplexy and/or EDS who might benefit from treatment with Xyrem. In an effort to reach more patients, we continue to implement initiatives such as outreach to prescribers who treat narcolepsy, physician/healthcare provider education, enhanced patient and physician support services and unbranded disease awareness programs for the public. 

In 2015, net product sales of Xyrem were $955.2 million , which represented 72.5% &#32;of our total net product sales. 

We promote Xyrem in the U.S. through a specialty sales force of approximately 100 sales professionals dedicated to Xyrem. Our marketing, sales and distribution of Xyrem are subject to a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, which is required by the FDA to ensure the safe distribution of Xyrem and minimize the risk of misuse, abuse and diversion of 

sodium oxybate. Under the Xyrem REMS, all of the Xyrem sold in the U.S. must be dispensed and shipped directly to patients through a central pharmacy. Xyrem may not be stocked in retail pharmacies. Physicians and patients must complete an enrollment process prior to fulfillment of Xyrem prescriptions, and each physician and patient receives materials concerning the risks and benefits of Xyrem before the physician can prescribe, or a patient can receive, the product. Whenever a prescription is received by the central pharmacy, the central pharmacy verifies the prescription and must speak with the patient before each prescription of Xyrem is filled and sent to the patient. The central pharmacy ships the product directly to the patient by a courier service, and the patient or his/her designee signs for the package. The initial shipment may include only up to a one-month supply, and refill orders may include only up to a three-month supply. 

We have an agreement with Express Scripts Specialty Distribution Services, Inc. and its affiliate CuraScript, Inc., which we refer to together as Express Scripts, to exclusively distribute Xyrem in the U.S. and provide customer support services related to the sales and marketing of Xyrem. Pursuant to the agreement, Express Scripts provides reimbursement support to patients by coordinating insurance coverage for Xyrem and, as applicable, referring qualified patients to various patient savings or assistance programs. Our agreement with Express Scripts, which has been in effect since July 2002, expires on June 30, 2017, subject to automatic two-year extensions unless either party provides notice to the other of its intent to terminate the agreement not less than 120 days before the end of the then-current term. Under the agreement, we own all standard operating procedures, business rules and the related intellectual property. The agreement provides for Express Scripts to assist in the orderly transfer of the services that Express Scripts provides to us and the related intellectual property, including intellectual property related to the patient database, to any new pharmacy that we may we engage. 

Seven companies have sent us notices that they have filed abbreviated new drug applications, or ANDAs, with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Xyrem. We have filed lawsuits against each of these companies seeking to prevent the introduction of a generic version of Xyrem that would infringe our patents, and the litigation proceedings are ongoing. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of these proceedings. Although no trial date has been set in any of the ANDA suits, we anticipate that trial on some of the patents in the case against the first ANDA filer, Roxane Laboratories, Inc., or Roxane, could occur as early as the second quarter of 2016. Some of the ANDA filers have also filed petitions for inter partes &#32;review, or IPR, by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board, or PTAB, of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, with respect to the validity of certain distribution, method of use and formulation patents covering Xyrem. In July 2015, the PTAB issued decisions instituting IPR trials with respect to petitions related to certain patents covering the Xyrem distribution system, and we expect the PTAB to issue final decisions on the validity of those patents in July 2016. For a description of these matters, see &#8220;Legal Proceedings&#8221; in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have also been engaged in discussions with the ANDA filers with respect to potential development of a single shared REMS for Xyrem and generic sodium oxybate, and the outcome of these discussions is uncertain. For further discussion regarding these and other challenges we face with respect to Xyrem, see &#8220;Business&#8212;Government Regulation&#8212; The Hatch-Waxman Act &#8221; in this Part I, Item 1 and the risk factors under the headings &#8220;Risks Related to Xyrem and the Significant Impact of Xyrem Sales&#8221; and &#32; &#8220;Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property&#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Xyrem is a controlled substance in the U.S., subject to regulation by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, under the Controlled Substances Act, or CSA. Therefore, its manufacturing and distribution are highly restricted. The finished product and active pharmaceutical ingredient for Xyrem are each manufactured for us by a single source supplier. For more information regarding Xyrem supply, see &#8220;Business&#8212;Manufacturing&#8221; in this Part I, Item 1 and the risk factor under the heading &#8220; The manufacture, distribution and sale of Xyrem are subject to significant regulatory oversight and restrictions and the requirements of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, and these restrictions and requirements, as well as the potential impact of changes to these restrictions and requirements, subject us to increased risks and uncertainties, any of which could negatively impact sales of Xyrem &#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Outside of the U.S., UCB Pharma Limited, or UCB, has an exclusive license to market Xyrem for the treatment of narcolepsy in 54 countries and currently sells the product in 18 countries. We have licensed to Valeant Canada Limited, or Valeant, the Canadian marketing rights to Xyrem for the treatment of narcolepsy. We supply Xyrem to UCB and Valeant. 

We have 20 U.S. patents covering Xyrem, which expire at various times from December 2019 to March 2033. Our issued patents relate to Xyrem&#8217;s stable and microbially resistant formulation, its manufacturing process, its method of use, including its restricted distribution system, and its method of administration. 

Erwinaze 

Erwinaze (called Erwinase in markets outside the U.S., and which we refer to in this report as Erwinaze unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires) is a biologic product used in conjunction with chemotherapy to treat patients with ALL who have developed hypersensitivity to E. coli -derived asparaginase. Erwinaze is an asparaginase, a type of enzyme that can deprive leukemic cells of an amino acid essential for their growth. It is derived from a rare bacterium ( Erwinia chrysanthemi ) and is immunologically distinct from E. coli -derived asparaginase and suitable for patients with hypersensitivity to E. coli -derived treatments. For ALL patients with hypersensitivity to E. coli -derived asparaginase, Erwinaze can be a crucial 

component of their therapeutic regimen. Erwinaze was originally developed by Public Health England, a U.K. national executive agency. First approved by the FDA under a biologics license application, or BLA, for administration via intramuscular injection in conjunction with chemotherapy, Erwinaze was launched in the U.S. in November 2011. In December 2014, the FDA approved a supplemental BLA for administration of Erwinaze via intravenous infusion in conjunction with chemotherapy. In Europe and elsewhere around the world, Erwinase is sold pursuant to marketing authorizations, named patient programs, temporary use authorizations or similar authorizations. 

ALL is the most common childhood cancer. Based on data from the U.S. National Cancer Institute, the U.S. Census Bureau and the American Cancer Society, we estimate that approximately 5,000 to 6,000 new cases of ALL were diagnosed in the U.S. in 2014. Approximately 50% of ALL patients were diagnosed under age 15 and approximately 20% were diagnosed between 15 and 39 years of age, which suggests that approximately 3,500 to 4,200 ALL patients were pediatric, adolescent or young adults. A study published by Dana Farber Cancer Institute, with median follow-up of 57 months, concluded that the intensive use of high-dose asparaginase has an important role in the treatment of children with ALL. Data reported in two separate papers published in Pediatric Blood &#38; Cancer &#32;and Journal of Clinical Oncology, respectively, suggest that up to 20% of ALL patients may develop hypersensitivity to E. coli -derived asparaginase. Current treatment guidelines and protocols recommend switching a patient receiving E. coli- derived asparaginase to treatment with Erwinaze if the patient&#8217;s hypersensitivity reaction to the E. coli -derived asparaginase is Grade 2-4, indicating that the hypersensitivity reaction has resulted in an intervention or interruption in infusion occurring in the patient&#8217;s treatment regimen. While pediatric treatment protocols commonly include asparaginase, adult protocols do not. A retrospective comparison to determine whether the outcome for ALL patients between 15 and 39 years of age differed depending on their enrollment in pediatric compared with adult cooperative group trials showed that the seven-year overall survival rate among the adolescent and young adult ALL patients treated on pediatric protocols was 67% compared to 46% for those patients treated on adult protocols. As more treatment protocols in adult centers incorporate the use of asparaginase-based regimens, we expect to see increased use of Erwinaze. In addition, we believe that Erwinaze has the potential for use in patients with silent hypersensitivity, a situation in which E. coli -derived asparaginase may induce antibodies that can neutralize the enzyme or increase its clearance, thereby depriving patients of its therapeutic benefits without manifesting the clinical symptoms of hypersensitivity. A third party has introduced an assay to determine the enzyme activity of asparaginase in patients who have been treated with any E. coli- derived asparaginase or Erwinaze. With this assay, physicians may be able to monitor asparaginase levels to identify patients with silent hypersensitivity and maintain asparaginase activity by switching asparaginase preparations. We expect adoption of this assay to be limited until its use is included in existing pediatric and adult treatment protocols. 

In 2015, net product sales of Erwinaze were $203.3 million , which represented 15.4% &#32;of our total net product sales. 

We promote Erwinaze in the U.S. through a specialty sales force of approximately 35 sales professionals who will also promote defibrotide in the U.S. if it is approved by the FDA. We provide reimbursement support through our JumpStart TM &#32;Access &#38; Reimbursement Solutions program, a dedicated Erwinaze call center. Our field-based and office-based reimbursement team provides additional reimbursement support, dealing specifically with the more complex needs of physicians and payors. 

Our hematology and oncology sales force outside of the U.S. has approximately 33 hematology field specialists responsible for promoting Erwinase and Defitelio in approved markets where we commercialize these products. In those markets where Erwinase is not currently approved, approximately 17 medical science liaisons and eight medical directors are responsible for responding to medical information requests and for providing information consistent with local treatment protocols. 

Erwinaze is exclusively licensed to us for worldwide marketing, sales and distribution by Porton Biopharma Limited, or PBL, a company that is wholly owned by the U.K. Secretary of State for Health. PBL also manufactures the product for us and is our sole supplier for Erwinaze. We are obligated to make tiered royalty payments to PBL based on worldwide net sales of Erwinaze. For more information regarding Erwinaze supply, see &#8220;Business&#8212;Manufacturing&#8221; in this Part I, Item 1 and the risk factor under the heading &#8220;We depend on single source suppliers for each of our products, product candidates and their active pharmaceutical ingredients. The loss of any of these suppliers, or delays or problems in the supply of our products for commercial sale or our product candidates for use in our clinical trials, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects&#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Erwinaze has no patent protection. It was awarded orphan drug exclusivity for the treatment of ALL in the U.S. until November 2018, and we believe that it is protected by exclusivity that prevents approval of a biosimilar in the U.S. through late 2023 under the U.S. Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, or BPCIA. 

Defitelio/defibrotide 

Defibrotide, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Defitelio, is the sodium salt of a complex mixture of single-stranded oligodeoxyribonucleotides derived from porcine DNA. In in vitro &#32;studies, defibrotide has shown a number of pharmacological 

effects that suggest it has a role in both protection of the endothelial cells that form the inner lining of blood vessels and restoration of the balance between clot formation and breakdown in the blood. 

Defibrotide has been developed for the treatment and prevention of VOD, a potentially life-threatening complication of HSCT. Stem cell transplantation is a frequently used treatment modality for hematologic cancers and other conditions in both adults and children. Certain conditioning regimens used as part of HSCT can damage the cells that line the hepatic vessels, which is thought to lead to the development of VOD, a blockage of the small vessels in the liver, that leads to liver failure and can result in significant dysfunction in other organs such as the kidneys and lungs. The condition is also referred to as &#8220;sinusoidal obstruction syndrome.&#8221; Severe VOD is the most extreme form of VOD and is associated with multi-organ failure and high rates of morbidity and mortality. An analysis of retrospective data, prospective cohort studies and clinical trials published between 1979 and 2007 found that the 100-day mortality rate in severe VOD cases is greater than 80%. Based on data from published surveys and our market research, we calculated that, in Europe, of the estimated approximately 35,000 patients undergoing HSCT in 2014, approximately 6,300 were considered at high risk for the development of VOD, and the incidence of VOD was approximately 3,600 patients; in the U.S., of the estimated approximately 20,000 patients undergoing HSCT in 2014, approximately 3,000 were considered at high risk for the development of VOD, and the incidence of VOD was approximately 1,000 to 2,000 patients. Our review of relevant literature and market research also suggests that about one-third to two-thirds of VOD patients may be eligible for treatment using defibrotide. 

In October 2013, the European Commission, or EC, granted marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances for Defitelio for the treatment of severe VOD in adults and children undergoing HSCT. Defitelio is the first approved treatment in the European Union, or EU, for this potentially life-threatening condition. Defitelio has generally been well-tolerated; the most frequent adverse reactions observed during pre-marketing use of the product are hemorrhage, hypotension and coagulopathy. 

We launched Defitelio in certain European countries in 2014 and continued to launch in additional European countries on a rolling basis through 2015. We are in the process of making pricing and reimbursement submissions with respect to Defitelio in those European countries where Defitelio is not yet launched, including in countries where pricing and reimbursement approvals are required for launch. We promote Defitelio along with Erwinase to many hematology and oncology specialists who operate in the same hospitals, and we believe that we benefit from operational synergies from this overlap. In addition, in those European markets where Defitelio is approved but not yet launched, our medical science liaisons and medical directors respond to medical information requests regarding defibrotide and provide information consistent with local treatment protocols. We intend eventually to commercialize Defitelio in all European markets where it has marketing authorization. We also continue to provide patients access to defibrotide where it is not commercially available outside the U.S. on a named patient basis. 

Defitelio/defibrotide product sales were $70.7 million &#32;in 2015, which represented 5.4% &#32;of our total net product sales. 

In August 2014, we acquired from Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Sigma-Tau, the rights to defibrotide for the treatment and prevention of VOD in North America, Central America and South America. In exchange for the rights to defibrotide in the Americas, we made an upfront payment of $75.0 million to Sigma-Tau and also agreed to make milestone payments of up to $175.0 million comprised of (i) $25.0 million upon the acceptance for filing by the FDA of the first NDA for defibrotide for VOD, which we paid to Sigma-Tau in the fourth quarter of 2015; and (ii) up to an additional $150.0 million based on the timing of potential FDA approval of defibrotide for VOD. 

There are currently no approved treatments for VOD in the U.S. We provide patients in the U.S. access to defibrotide through an expanded access treatment protocol that is open under an investigational new drug application, or IND. In September 2015, the FDA accepted for filing with priority review our NDA for defibrotide for the treatment of VOD with evidence of multi-organ dysfunction following HSCT. Based on timelines established by the PDUFA, we expect FDA review of the NDA to be completed by March 31, 2016. However, the FDA does not always meet the timelines established by PDUFA, and it is possible that the FDA&#8217;s review of our NDA will not be completed by the PDUFA date, in which case our plans for commercialization of defibrotide in the U.S. may be delayed. In any event, we cannot predict whether our NDA will be approved in a timely manner, if at all. For more information, see &#8220;Business&#8212;Government Regulation&#8212;Approval of Pharmaceutical Products&#8221; in this Part I, Item 1 and the risk factor under the heading &#8220;We may not be able to successfully maintain or grow sales of Defitelio in Europe, or obtain marketing approval of defibrotide in other countries, including the U.S., which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects&#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If defibrotide is approved by the FDA, we plan to promote defibrotide in the U.S. through our specialty sales force of approximately 35 sales professionals who currently promote Erwinaze in the U.S. 

We are preparing to commence a clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of defibrotide for the prevention of VOD in high-risk patients. We expect to finalize the protocol and complete site activation in the first half of 2016 and to initiate patient enrollment in the third quarter of 2016. We are also assessing the potential for approval of defibrotide in other countries and for development of defibrotide in additional indications. Defibrotide has received orphan drug designation to treat and 

prevent VOD from the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, and the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. The Commonwealth of Australia-Department of Health has granted defibrotide orphan drug designation for the treatment of VOD. In addition, the EMA also granted orphan drug designation to defibrotide for the prevention of graft vs. host disease, or GvHD, another potentially fatal complication of HSCT that afflicts up to 50% of all donor transplant patients. 

The drug substance defibrotide was developed and is manufactured in a facility in Italy that we acquired in connection with our acquisition of Gentium S.r.l., or Gentium, in January 2014, which we refer to as the Gentium Acquisition. The finished product is manufactured for us by a single source supplier. For more information regarding Defitelio/defibrotide supply, see &#8220;Business&#8212;Manufacturing&#8221; in this Part I, Item 1 and the risk factor under the heading &#8220; We depend on single source suppliers for each of our products, product candidates and their active pharmaceutical ingredients. The loss of any of these suppliers, or delays or problems in the supply of our products for commercial sale or our product candidates for use in our clinical trials, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects &#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The unique process of deriving defibrotide from porcine DNA is extensive and uses both chemical and biological processes which rely on complex characterization methods. We have a portfolio of U.S. and non-U.S. patents and patent applications relating to various compositions, methods of use and methods of characterization, which will expire at various times between April 2017 and June 2035. 

Prialt and other products 

We also commercialize a portfolio of other products, including Prialt. Prialt is an intrathecally administered infusion of ziconotide, approved by the FDA in December 2004 for the management of severe chronic pain in patients for whom intrathecal therapy is warranted, and who are intolerant of or refractory to other treatment, such as systemic analgesics, adjunctive therapies or intrathecal morphine. Intrathecal therapy is the delivery of the drug into the intrathecal space in the spine through an infusion system comprised of a programmable infusion pump and catheter. For most patients who achieve good pain relief and tolerability with Prialt, pain relief can be maintained over time without cumulative toxicity. Prialt is the only FDA-approved non-opioid intrathecal analgesic. We have worldwide rights to Prialt, excluding certain countries outside of the U.S. licensed by Eisai Co. Limited, or Eisai, from Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (subsequently acquired by Perrigo Company plc) in May 2010. We do not currently sell the product outside of the U.S. We supply Prialt to Eisai. 

We also sell psychiatry and other products in the U.S. 

Research and Development 

Our development projects currently include clinical development of new product candidates, activities related to line extensions for existing products and the generation of additional clinical data for existing products. These projects are concentrated in our sleep and hematology/oncology therapeutic areas. 

In the sleep area, we have ongoing and planned development programs for Xyrem and certain product candidates. 

&#8226; 

JZP-110. 

Phase 3 Clinical Trials. JZP-110 is a late-stage investigational compound being developed for potential treatment of EDS in patients with narcolepsy and EDS in patients with OSA. We acquired worldwide development, manufacturing and commercial rights to JZP-110 from Aerial BioPharma LLC, or Aerial, in January 2014, other than in certain jurisdictions in Asia where SK Biopharmaceuticals Co., Ltd, or SK, retains rights. We initiated patient enrollment in our Phase 3 clinical program in the second quarter of 2015. We are conducting one Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with EDS associated with narcolepsy and two Phase 3 clinical trials in patients with EDS associated with OSA. Approximately 880 patients are expected to be enrolled in these three trials in the aggregate. In addition, we expect to enroll up to 450 patients from two of our Phase 3 clinical trials in an open label extension trial evaluating the long-term safety of JZP-110. We expect to receive preliminary data results from these trials in the fourth quarter of 2016. 

Other Activities. We are also exploring additional potential indications for JZP-110. 

&#8226; 

Xyrem . 

P hase 3 Clinical Trial of Xyrem in Children and Adolescents . While in many patients narcolepsy can begin during childhood and adolescence, there is limited information on the treatment of pediatric narcolepsy patients with Xyrem. We have worked with the FDA and several leading specialists to design a clinical trial to generate additional data on the treatment of pediatric narcolepsy patients with Xyrem. In the fourth quarter of 2014, we initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of Xyrem in children and adolescents aged seven to 17 who have narcolepsy with cataplexy. We expect to complete enrollment in this trial in the second half of 2016. 

Other Activities. We are also pursuing other activities related to the potential development of options for narcolepsy patients that would provide clinically meaningful improvements compared to Xyrem, including once-nightly dosing. Although results from our Phase 1 trial of JZP-386, a deuterium-modified analog of sodium oxybate, which we licensed from Concert Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Concert, in February 2013, did not support advancing JZP-386 into a later-stage clinical trial, the clinical data demonstrated that JZP-386 provided favorable deuterium-related effects, including higher serum concentrations and correspondingly increased pharmacodynamics effects at clinically relevant time points compared to Xyrem, and a safety profile similar to that observed with Xyrem. We are exploring formulation options designed to leverage the positive effects observed in the studies. 

In the hematology and oncology area, we also have ongoing and planned development activities. 

&#8226; 

Defibrotide. 

Pl anned Phase 3 Clinical Trial . We are preparing to commence a clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of defibrotide for the prevention of VOD in high-risk patients. We expect to initiate patient enrollment in the third quarter of 2016. 

Other Activities. &#32;&#32;We are also exploring additional potential indications for defibrotide and assessing the potential to pursue regulatory approval of defibrotide in additional countries. 

&#8226; 

Erwinaze. We are pursuing activities related to the potential development of an effective and well-tolerated long-acting recombinant crisantaspase that would offer benefits compared to Erwinaze. We are also assessing the potential to pursue regulatory approval of Erwinaze in additional countries. 

We recorded research and development expenses of $135.3 million , $85.2 million and $41.6 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We also recorded charges of $202.6 million and $5.0 million to in-process research and development in 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Sales and Marketing 

We have commercial operations primarily in the U.S. and Europe. In the U.S., our products are marketed through our commercial teams, including more than 150 trained, experienced sales professionals who promote Xyrem, Erwinaze and Prialt directly to physicians in specialties appropriate for each product. Outside of the U.S., our hematology and oncology sales force has approximately 33 hematology field specialists responsible for promoting Erwinase and Defitelio in approved markets where we commercialize these products. 

Our commercial activities include marketing-related services, distribution services and commercial support services. We employ third party vendors, such as advertising agencies, market research firms and suppliers of marketing and other sales support-related services, to assist with our commercial activities. 

We currently have a relatively small number of sales representatives compared with the number of sales representatives of most other pharmaceutical companies with marketed products. Each of our sales representatives is responsible for a geographic territory of significant size. We believe that the size of our sales force is appropriate to effectively reach our target audience for our marketed products in the specialty markets in which we currently operate. We recently expanded our sales force by approximately 10 sales professionals in anticipation of the potential launch of defibrotide in the U.S. Continued growth of our current marketed products and the launch of any future products may require further expansion of our sales force and sales support organization in the U.S. and internationally, and we may need to commit significant additional funds, management and other resources to the growth of our sales organization. 

Competition 

The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and dominated by a number of large, established pharmaceutical companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical companies that market products and develop product candidates in sleep, hematology/oncology, pain and other therapeutic areas. Many of these companies, particularly large pharmaceutical and life sciences companies, have substantially greater financial, operational and human resources than we do. They can spend more on, and have more expertise in, research and development, regulatory, manufacturing, distribution and sales activities. As a result, our competitors may obtain regulatory approvals for their product candidates more rapidly than we may and may market their products more effectively than we do. Smaller or earlier stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. 

Our ability to continue to grow requires that we compete successfully with other specialty pharmaceutical companies for product and product candidate acquisition and in-licensing opportunities. These competitors include established companies that may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size and financial resources. 

We also face competition from manufacturers of generic drugs. Generic competition often results in decreases in the prices at which branded products can be sold, particularly when there is more than one generic available in the marketplace. In 

addition, legislation enacted in the U.S. allows for, and in a few instances in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician mandates, the dispensing of generic products rather than branded products where a generic version is available. Other companies could also develop products that are similar, but not identical, to our marketed products, such as an alternative formulation of our product or an alternative formulation combined with a different delivery technology, and seek approval in the U.S. by referencing our products and relying, to some degree, on the FDA&#8217;s finding that our products are safe and effective in their approved indications. 

Our products and product candidates may also compete in the future with new products currently under development by others. Any products that we develop are likely to be in a highly competitive market, and many of our competitors may succeed in developing products that may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. 

Our lead marketed products face competition as described below: 

&#8226; 

Xyrem . Xyrem is the only product approved by the FDA for the treatment of both cataplexy and EDS in patients with narcolepsy. No product other than Xyrem is approved by the FDA for the treatment of cataplexy. The only other products approved by the FDA for the treatment of EDS in patients with narcolepsy are Provigil &#174; &#32;(modafinil) and Nuvigil &#174; &#32;(armodafinil), which are marketed by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited, or Teva, and generic versions of Provigil. Provigil, its generic equivalents and Nuvigil are also approved for improving wakefulness in patients with EDS associated with treated OSA or shift work disorder. Xyrem is often used in conjunction with stimulants and wake-promoting drugs, which are administered during the day. 

As alternatives to Xyrem, cataplexy is often treated with tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, or selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or SNRIs, although these products are not approved by the FDA for the treatment of cataplexy. Tricyclic antidepressants are a class of antidepressant drugs first used in the 1950s. The use of these drugs can often result in somnolence, which exacerbates the EDS already experienced by all patients with narcolepsy. SSRIs and SNRIs are compounds typically used for the treatment of clinical depression. Somnolence and insomnia are commonly reported side effects with SSRIs, while loss of sleep is a commonly reported side effect with SNRIs. These side effects may be problematic for patients with narcolepsy. 

Seven companies have sent us notices that they have filed ANDAs with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Xyrem. We have filed lawsuits against each of these companies seeking to prevent the introduction of a generic version of Xyrem that would infringe our patents, and the litigation proceedings are ongoing. Some of the ANDA filers have also filed petitions for IPR with respect to the validity of certain distribution, method of use and formulation patents covering Xyrem. In July 2015, the PTAB issued decisions instituting IPR trials with respect to petitions related to certain patents covering the Xyrem distribution system, and we expect the PTAB to issue final decisions on the validity of those patents in July 2016. For a description of these matters, see &#8220;Legal Proceedings&#8221; in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Other companies could also develop products that are similar, but not identical, to Xyrem, such as an alternative formulation or an alternative formulation combined with a different delivery technology, and seek approval in the U.S. by referencing Xyrem and relying, to some degree, on the FDA&#8217;s approval of Xyrem and related determinations of safety and efficacy. For example, a company that is using its proprietary technology for delivery of a sodium oxybate formulation to eliminate second nighttime dosing for narcolepsy patients has stated that it anticipates commencing a Phase 3 pivotal trial in 2016 that is expected to run through early 2017. If this company is successful in developing a sodium oxybate formulation that could be effectively used with its delivery technology and is able to obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for its product to treat narcolepsy patients, we expect sales of Xyrem would be adversely affected. 

&#8226; 

Erwinaze . Erwinaze is a biologic product used in conjunction with chemotherapy and is indicated for patients with ALL who have developed hypersensitivity to E. coli -derived asparaginase. While there is currently no direct competition to Erwinaze to treat ALL patients with hypersensitivity to E. coli -derived asparaginase, other companies have developed or are developing new treatments for ALL, including new asparaginase treatments that could reduce the rate of hypersensitivity in patients with ALL, and new treatment protocols are being developed for ALL that may not include asparaginase-containing regimens. For example, a number of companies are developing new immunotherapy treatments for relapsed or refractory ALL patients, including one treatment that was recently approved, and a company recently announced positive efficacy and safety results from its completed Phase 2/3 pivotal trial in Europe for an alternative asparaginase treatment consisting of L-asparaginase encapsulated inside donor-derived red blood cells. Any potential new treatment could reduce the market for Erwinaze. As a biologic product, Erwinaze also faces potential competition from biosimilar products. 

&#8226; 

Defitelio/defibrotide . &#32; Defitelio is the first approved treatment in the EU for the treatment of severe VOD in adults and children undergoing HSCT, and in September 2015, the FDA accepted for filing with priority review our NDA for defibrotide for the treatment of VOD with evidence of multi-organ dysfunction following HSCT. Various anti-clotting strategies have been tried by researchers in patients with VOD with mixed results, including Activase (alteplase), a recombinant tissue plasminogen activator marketed by Genentech, Inc., generic heparin sodium 

injection and Thrombate III (antithrombin III (human)), marketed by Grifols Therapeutics, Inc. While there is currently no direct competition to Defitelio to treat severe VOD, changes in the types of conditioning regimens used as part of HSCT may affect the incidence rate of VOD and demand for Defitelio. 

With respect to all of our products and product candidates, we believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: 

&#8226; 

the existence of competing or alternative products in the marketplace, including generic competition, and the relative price of those products; 

&#8226; 

the efficacy, safety and reliability of our products and product candidates compared to competing or alternative products; 

&#8226; 

product acceptance by physicians, other health care providers and patients; 

&#8226; 

our ability to comply with applicable laws, regulations and regulatory requirements with respect to the commercialization of our products, including any changes or increases to regulatory restrictions; 

&#8226; 

protection of our proprietary rights; 

&#8226; 

obtaining reimbursement for our products in approved indications; 

&#8226; 

our ability to complete clinical development and obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates, and the timing and scope of regulatory approvals; 

&#8226; 

our ability to provide a reliable supply of commercial quantities of a product to the market; and 

&#8226; 

our ability to recruit, retain and develop skilled employees, including sales and marketing and clinical development employees. 

Customers and Information About Geographic Areas 

In the U.S., our lead marketed product, Xyrem, is sold to one specialty pharmacy, Express Scripts, which ships Xyrem directly to patients. Erwinaze is sold to hospitals through a specialty distributor, McKesson Corporation. Prialt is sold in the U.S. through an exclusive pharmacy to other pharmacies and medical facilities, and our other products are sold in the U.S. primarily to distributors who distribute the product to pharmacies and hospitals. We have standard distribution services agreements made in the ordinary course of business with these distributors, which include prompt payment discounts and various standard service fees or rebate arrangements. Purchases are made on a purchase order basis. 

Outside of the U.S., we distribute Erwinase through Durbin PLC, a U.K.-based wholesaler and distributor, to hospitals and local wholesalers in Europe where we market Erwinase directly and, in markets where we do not market Erwinase directly, to local distributors and wholesalers in Europe and elsewhere in the world. We distribute Defitelio to the European countries where the product has been launched commercially primarily through IDIS Limited, or IDIS, a U.K.-based distributor. We also work with IDIS and a number of local distributors in Europe and elsewhere in the world to distribute defibrotide on a named patient basis. &#32; Xyrem is currently sold in 18 countries by UCB (which has rights to market Xyrem in 54 countries) and in Canada by Valeant. Eisai has rights to market Prialt in numerous countries outside of the U.S. While we retain the rights to Prialt in the remaining non-U.S. territories, we are not currently selling the product outside of the U.S. 

Information on our total revenues attributed to U.S. and non-U.S. sources and customers who represented at least 10% of our total revenues in each of 2015, 2014 and 2013, as well as the location of our long-lived assets, is included in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We are headquartered in Dublin, Ireland. We also have offices in Palo Alto, California; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Oxford, United Kingdom; Lyon, France; Villa Guardia (Como), Italy; Athlone, Ireland; and elsewhere in Europe. For a discussion of risks related to our non-U.S. operations, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Related to Our Business,&#8221; &#8220;&#8212;Risks Related to Our Industry&#8221; and &#8220;&#8212;Risks Related to Our Financial Condition&#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk&#8221; in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Manufacturing 

We have completed construction of a manufacturing and development facility in Ireland and expect to begin commercial operations at the facility in 2016. Currently, however, other than the manufacturing plant in Italy where we produce some active pharmaceutical ingredients, including the defibrotide drug substance, we do not have our own commercial manufacturing capability for our products or product candidates, or their active pharmaceutical ingredients, or the capability to package our products. We have a single source of supply for each of our marketed products and our product candidates and for the active pharmaceutical ingredients used in these products and product candidates. Our ability to develop and deliver products in a timely and competitive manner depends on our third party suppliers being able to continue to meet our ongoing 

commercial and clinical trial needs (except with respect to the defibrotide drug substance, which we manufacture ourselves). Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, including difficulties with production yields, process controls, quality control and quality assurance, including testing of stability, impurities and impurity levels and other product specifications by validated test methods, and compliance with strictly enforced U.S., state and non-U.S. regulations. These difficulties can be heightened when a supplier is required to scale up to produce increased quantities to meet growing demand. In addition, our suppliers are subject to the FDA&#8217;s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements, DEA regulations and other rules and regulations prescribed by non-U.S. regulatory authorities. We depend on our third party suppliers to comply with these requirements, and they may not be able to continue to do so. 

Xyrem. In 2010, we entered into an agreement with Siegfried (USA) Inc., subsequently renamed Siegfried USA, LLC, or Siegfried, for the supply of sodium oxybate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Xyrem. Siegfried was approved by the FDA as our supplier in November 2011. Although Siegfried has been our only supplier of sodium oxybate since 2012, we have the right to purchase a portion of our worldwide requirements of sodium oxybate from other suppliers. Under our agreement, we provide periodic rolling forecasts to Siegfried, and a portion of each rolling forecast constitutes a firm purchase order. The agreement with Siegfried expires in April 2018, subject to automatic three-year extensions until either party provides notice to the other of its intent to terminate the agreement at least 18 months before the end of the then-current term. Either party has the right to terminate the agreement in the event of the other party&#8217;s uncured material breach or insolvency. During the term of the agreement and, under certain circumstances for 18 months after the agreement terminates, Siegfried is not permitted to manufacture sodium oxybate for any other company. 

Effective October 1, 2015, we entered into a Master Manufacturing Services Agreement, or the Master Agreement, with Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc., which we refer to together with its affiliates as Patheon. The Master Agreement supersedes a prior agreement with Patheon for the manufacturing, supply and packaging of Xyrem and establishes the general terms and conditions pursuant to which Patheon will provide manufacturing services for drug products, including Xyrem, as specified by us in product agreements entered into from time to time. Although Patheon is currently our sole supplier of Xyrem, we are not required to purchase Xyrem exclusively from Patheon. The Master Agreement expires on December 31, 2020 and may be extended for additional two-year terms if Patheon is then providing manufacturing services for any product, unless either party provides 18 months prior notice of termination. In addition, we may terminate the Master Agreement for any reason upon 12 months prior written notice, and either party has the right to terminate the agreement in the event of the other party&#8217;s uncured material breach. 

Quotas from the DEA are required in order to manufacture and package sodium oxybate and Xyrem in the U.S. DEA quotas are required for Siegfried to supply us with sodium oxybate and for Patheon to obtain sodium oxybate from Siegfried in order to supply us with Xyrem. Because the DEA typically grants quotas on an annual basis and requires a detailed submission and justification for a quota request, obtaining sufficient DEA quotas can be a difficult and time-consuming process. The need for quotas has prevented us in the past, and may prevent us in the future, from building significant inventories. For information related to DEA quota requirements, see &#8220;Business&#8212;Government Regulation&#8212;Other Regulatory Requirements&#8212;Controlled Substance Regulations&#8221; in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Erwinaze. Erwinaze is exclusively licensed to us, and manufactured for us, by PBL, which is our sole supplier for Erwinaze. Our agreement with PBL expires in December 2020, subject to automatic five-year extensions unless terminated by either party in writing prior to a fixed date before the end of the then-current term. Either party has the right to terminate the agreement in the event of the other party&#8217;s uncured material breach or insolvency. We provide periodic rolling forecasts to PBL, and a portion of each rolling forecast constitutes a firm purchase order. We are obligated to make tiered royalty payments to PBL based on worldwide net sales of Erwinaze and Erwinase. The BLA approving Erwinaze includes a number of post-marketing commitments related to the manufacture of Erwinaze by PBL. 

The current manufacturing capacity for Erwinaze is nearly completely absorbed by demand for the product. We are working with PBL to evaluate potential expansion of its production capacity to increase the supply of Erwinaze over the longer term. As a consequence of constrained manufacturing capacity, we have had an extremely limited or no ability to build an excess level of product inventory that can be used to absorb disruptions to supply resulting from quality, regulatory or other issues, and we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, manufacturing and inventory challenges that have resulted in disruptions in our ability to supply certain markets. If capacity constraints continue, whether as a result of continued quality or other manufacturing issues or otherwise, we may be unable to build a desired excess level of product inventory, and our ability to supply the market may continue to be compromised. Additional Erwinaze supply interruptions and/or our inability to expand production capacity could materially adversely affect our sales of and revenues from Erwinaze and our potential future maintenance and growth of the market for this product. 

Defitelio/defibrotide. We are our sole supplier of, and we believe that we are currently the sole worldwide producer of, the defibrotide drug compound. We manufacture the defibrotide compound in a single facility located in Villa Guardia, near Como, Italy. Patheon currently processes the defibrotide compound into its finished vial form, and Patheon is the sole provider of our commercial supply of the finished product in the EU and of our clinical supply. We anticipate that Patheon will also be the sole provider of our commercial supply of the finished product for the U.S. market if the product is approved by the FDA. 

Part of the process to obtain FDA approval for defibrotide is to obtain certification from the FDA that the facilities we and Patheon operate are in compliance with the FDA&#8217;s cGMP requirements. The FDA may deny approval if the FDA determines that either our facility or Patheon&#8217;s facility does not meet applicable manufacturing and quality requirements. In December 2015, the FDA performed a pre-approval inspection of our manufacturing facility in connection with our NDA submission for defibrotide. The inspection passed, and the FDA did not issue a Form FDA 483 at the conclusion of the inspection. In 2015, the FDA issued a Form FDA 483 to Patheon Italia S.p.A., or Patheon Italia, that included observations related to the Ferentino, Italy facility that manufactures the defibrotide finished product. Failure by Patheon Italia to timely remediate the observations to the FDA&#8217;s satisfaction or the discovery of issues that impact the defibrotide finished product could have an adverse impact on the potential approval of our NDA for defibrotide, including the timing thereof. Even after a manufacturing facility is approved, the FDA will continue to inspect and evaluate facilities for ongoing compliance with applicable requirements. If Patheon does not or is not able to supply us with finished defibrotide product for any reason, it may take time and resources to implement and execute the necessary technology transfer to another processor, and such delay could negatively impact our product launch in the U.S. market if the product is approved by the FDA and our anticipated revenues from defibrotide and could potentially cause us to breach contractual obligations with customers or to violate local laws requiring us to deliver the product to those in need. 

JZP-110. In order to conduct any of our clinical trials for JZP-110, we need to have sufficient quantities of clinical product manufactured. While we believe that we will be able to obtain sufficient supplies of JZP-110 for our clinical trials, there can be no assurance that our suppliers will be able to produce sufficient clinical supplies of JZP-110 in a timely manner. Any delay in receiving adequate supplies of JZP-110 for our clinical trials could negatively impact our development program. 

For further discussion of the challenges we face with respect to supply of our products and product candidates, see the risk factor under the heading &#8220; We depend on single source suppliers for each of our products and product candidates and their active pharmaceutical ingredients. The loss of any of these suppliers , or delays or problems in the manufacture of our products for commercial sale or our product candidates for use in our clinical trials, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects&#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 

10-K. 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

We actively seek to patent, or to obtain licenses to or to acquire third party patents, to protect our products and related inventions and improvements that we consider important to our business. We own a portfolio of U.S and non-U.S. patents and patent applications and have licensed rights to a number of issued patents and patent applications. Our owned and licensed patents and patent applications cover or relate to our products and product candidates, including certain formulations, uses to treat particular conditions, distribution methods and methods of administration, drug delivery technologies and delivery profiles and methods of production. Patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The patent laws of non-U.S. countries differ from those in U.S., and the degree of protection afforded by non-U.S. patents may be different from the protection offered by U.S. patents. 

The patents and patent applications that relate to our lead marketed products include: 

&#8226; 

Xyrem. Xyrem is covered by 20 U.S. patents that expire at various times from December 2019 to March 2033, of which 16 are listed in the FDA&#8217;s publication &#8220;Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations,&#8221; or Orange Book. These patents relate to Xyrem&#8217;s stable and microbially resistant formulation, its manufacturing process, its method of use, including its restricted distribution system, and its method of administration. Of the patents listed in the Orange Book, four are formulation patents expiring between December 2019 and July 2020; seven are method of use patents covering the distribution of Xyrem expiring between December 2022 and June 2024; three are method of use patents covering Xyrem&#8217;s use in narcolepsy, which expire in December 2019; and two are method of administration patents expiring in March 2033. Four patents are not listed in the Orange Book but also relate to Xyrem: two for methods for making the formulation expiring December 2019, one for a distribution system expiring June 2024 and one for method of administration expiring March 2033. A Xyrem formulation patent has issued in multiple non-U.S. countries and will expire in December 2019. In addition to our issued patents, we have patent applications relating to Xyrem pending in the U.S. and other countries. 

Seven companies have sent us notices that they have filed ANDAs with the FDA seeking FDA approval to market a generic version of Xyrem. We have filed lawsuits against each of these companies seeking to prevent the introduction of a generic version of Xyrem that would infringe our patents, and the litigation proceedings are ongoing. Some of the ANDA filers have also filed petitions for IPR with respect to the validity of certain distribution, method of use and formulation patents covering Xyrem. In July 2015, the PTAB issued decisions instituting IPR trials with respect to petitions related to certain patents covering the Xyrem distribution system, and 

we expect the PTAB to issue final decisions on the validity of those patents in July 2016. For a description of these matters, see &#8220;Legal Proceedings&#8221; in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#8226; 

Defitelio . The unique process of deriving defibrotide from porcine DNA is extensive and uses both chemical and biological processes that rely on complex characterization methods. We have a portfolio of U.S. and non-U.S. patents and patent applications relating to various compositions, methods of use and methods of characterization, which will expire at various times between April 2017 and June 2035. 

Erwinaze has no patent protection. It was awarded orphan drug exclusivity for the treatment of ALL in the U.S. until November 2018, and we believe that it is protected by exclusivity that prevents approval of a biosimilar in the U.S. through late 2023 under the BPCIA. For more details, see &#8220;Business&#8212;Government Regulation&#8212;Orphan Drug and Other Exclusivities&#8221; in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The patents and patent applications that relate to our product candidates include: 

&#8226; 

JZP-110 . JZP-110 and its associated uses are claimed in multiple U.S. and non-U.S. patents and patent applications. We acquired rights to JZP-110 from Aerial in January 2014, including Aerial&#8217;s patent rights relating to JZP-110, other than in certain jurisdictions in Asia where SK retains rights. One of the U.S. composition of matter patents expired on September 2015. Two U.S. method of use patents covering treatment of sleep-related conditions will expire in June 2026 and August 2027, respectively, subject to any patent term extension. 

&#8226; 

JZP-386. &#32;&#32;Two U.S. patents cover the composition of deuterated analogs of sodium oxybate, including JZP-386, and their methods for treating certain diseases and disorders, including narcolepsy. The first patent expires in August 2030, and the second patent expires in February 2032. A European patent that corresponds to the first U.S. patent expires in April 2030. Further, patent applications corresponding to the second U.S. patent were filed in the U.S., Europe and Japan, and, if issued, would expire in February 2032. We were granted exclusive licenses to these patent rights by Concert. 

We cannot be certain that any of our patent applications, or those of our licensors, will result in issued patents, that the patents we own and license, or any additional patents we may own or license, will prevent other companies from developing similar or therapeutically equivalent products, or that others will not be issued patents that may prevent the sale of our products or require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties. 

We also rely on our trade secrets and those of our licensors, as well as other unpatented proprietary information, to protect our products and commercial position, particularly with respect to our products with limited or no patent protection, such as Erwinaze and Defitelio. To the extent that our products have a competitive edge as a result of our reliance on trade secrets and unpatented know-how, our competitive position may be compromised if others independently develop products using the same or similar technologies or trade secrets. 

We seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and collaboration partners. Nevertheless, these agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide us with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. In addition, if our employees, consultants, advisors or collaboration partners develop inventions or processes independently or jointly with us that may be applicable to our products under development, disputes may arise about ownership or proprietary rights to those inventions and processes. Such inventions and processes will not necessarily become our property, but may remain the property of those third parties or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. In addition, courts outside of the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. 

Failure to obtain or maintain patent and trade secret protection, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business. See the risk factors under the heading &#8220;Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property&#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

In addition, we have a number of trademarks and service marks to further protect the proprietary position of our products. We also have pending trademark and service mark applications in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world. 

Government Regulation 

The manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, record keeping, importing and exporting of our products and our research and development activities are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, the EC, the competent authorities of the EU member states and other regulatory authorities. Regulations differ from country to country. As a result of these regulations, product development, approval and commercialization processes are expensive and time-consuming. 

Approval of Pharmaceutical Products 

We are not permitted to market a pharmaceutical product in the U.S. or in the EU member states until we receive approval from the FDA, the EC or the competent authorities of the EU member states, as applicable. An application for marketing approval must contain information demonstrating the quality, safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical product, including data from preclinical and clinical trials, information pertaining to the preparation and manufacture of the drug or biologic, analytical methods, product formulation, details on the manufacture and stability of the finished pharmaceutical product, proposals concerning fulfillment of pharmacovigilance obligations, and proposed product packaging and labeling. 

In the U.S., the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and its implementing regulations, regulates the review, approval, manufacturing and marketing of our products. Our failure, or the failure of any of our third party partners, to comply with applicable requirements could subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions or other negative consequences, such as delays in approval or refusal to approve a product candidate, withdrawal of product approval, notices of violation, untitled letters, warning letters, fines and other monetary penalties, unanticipated expenditures, product recall or seizure, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions, suspension of licenses, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution. 

To obtain FDA approval of a product candidate, an applicant, also called a sponsor, must, among other things, submit the data and information described above in the form of an NDA or BLA, as applicable, and pay a user fee. The testing and collection of data and the preparation of necessary applications are expensive and time-consuming, and the outcomes are uncertain. The steps required before a drug or biologic may be approved for marketing in the U.S. generally include: preclinical laboratory tests and animal tests; submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials commence; adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug or biologic for each indication; the submission to the FDA of the NDA or BLA; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facilities at which the product is made, analyzed and stored to assess compliance with cGMP; potential FDA audit of the nonclinical and clinical trial sites that generated the data in support of the application; and FDA review and approval of the application. 

Human clinical trials conducted before approval of a product for a specific indication generally proceed in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with general investigational plans and protocols, as well as the FDA&#8217;s requirements, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA enforces good clinical practices through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. In Phase 1, the initial introduction of the drug into human subjects, frequently healthy volunteers, the drug is tested to assess metabolism, pharmacokinetics, pharmacological actions, side effects associated with increasing doses and, if possible, early evidence of effectiveness. Phase 2 usually involves clinical trials in a limited patient population to determine the effectiveness of the drug for a particular indication or indications, dosage tolerance and optimum dosage and to identify common adverse effects and safety risks. If a drug demonstrates evidence of effectiveness and an acceptable safety profile in Phase 2, Phase 3 clinical trials are undertaken to obtain additional information about clinical efficacy and safety in a larger number of patients, typically at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. In addition, Phase 4, or post-approval, clinical trials may be required by the FDA and are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication and to document a clinical benefit in the case of products approved under accelerated approval regulations. 

The FDA reviews a submitted NDA or BLA before it accepts it for filing and may refuse to file an application and/or request additional information before acceptance. Once an NDA or BLA submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the application. Under the goals and policies agreed to by the FDA under the PDUFA, for a new molecular entity, the FDA has twelve months from submission in which to complete its initial review of a standard application and respond to the applicant, and eight months for a priority application for a new molecular entity. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates, and in certain circumstances the PDUFA goal date may be extended. The FDA may not act quickly or favorably in reviewing applications, and we may encounter significant difficulties or costs in any efforts to obtain FDA approvals, which could delay or preclude us from marketing our product candidates. 

If the FDA determines that a REMS is necessary to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks, a sponsor may be required to include a proposed REMS (as part of the application or after approval), which may include a patient package insert or a medication guide to provide information to consumers about the product&#8217;s risks and benefits; a plan for communication to healthcare providers; and restrictions on the product&#8217;s distribution referred to as elements to assure safe use, or ETASU. For example, Xyrem is required to have a REMS. See the discussion regarding REMS, particularly in the context of potential generic competition, under &#8220;Business&#8212;Government Regulation&#8212; The Hatch-Waxman Act &#8221; below and in the risk factor in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading &#8220; The manufacture, distribution and sale of Xyrem are subject to significant regulatory oversight and restrictions and the requirements of a risk evaluation and mitigation 

strategy, and these restrictions and requirements, as well as the potential impact of changes to these restrictions and requirements, subject us to increased risks and uncertainties, any of which could negatively impact sales of Xyrem. &#8221; 

After the FDA evaluates a marketing application, including a REMS when applicable, it also evaluates any manufacturing and nonclinical and clinical trial facilities for the proposed product. When the FDA&#8217;s evaluation is complete, it issues an approval letter or a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#8217;s satisfaction in a resubmission of the application, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA may also refer an application to the appropriate advisory committee, typically a panel of clinicians, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of the advisory committee. 

The FDA has and has used various programs, including fast track, priority review, breakthrough therapy and accelerated approval (Subpart H and E), that are intended to expedite or simplify the process for reviewing certain applications and/or provide for approval on the basis of surrogate endpoints or restricted distribution. Generally, drugs and biologics may be eligible for one or more of these programs if they are intended for serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions, have potential to address unmet medical needs, or may provide meaningful benefit over existing treatments. 

Outside of the U.S., our ability to market a medicinal product generally depends upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authority. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, obtaining marketing authorization, fulfillment of pharmacovigilance obligations, obtaining pricing and reimbursement and related matters vary widely from country to country. In any country, however, we will generally be permitted to commercialize our products if the appropriate regulatory authority is satisfied that we have presented adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy. The time needed to secure approval for medicinal products may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The regulatory approval and oversight process in other countries includes all of the risks associated with regulation by the FDA and certain state regulatory agencies as described below. 

In the EU, marketing authorization for medicinal products can be obtained through several different procedures. These are through a centralized, mutual recognition procedure, decentralized procedure, or national procedure (single country). The centralized procedure allows a company to submit a single application to the EMA, which will provide a positive opinion regarding the application if it meets certain safety, quality and efficacy requirements. The EC will, based on a positive opinion of the EMA, grant a centralized marketing authorization that is valid in all EU member states and three of the four European Free Trade Association, or EFTA, countries (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway). The centralized procedure is mandatory for certain medicinal products, including orphan medicinal products and biologic products, and optional for certain other products. The decentralized procedure allows companies to file identical applications for authorization to several EU member states simultaneously for medicinal products that have not yet been authorized in any EU member state. The competent authority of one EU member state, selected by the applicant, assesses the application for marketing authorization. The competent authorities of the other EU member states are subsequently required to grant marketing authorization for their territories on the basis of this assessment except where grounds of potential serious risk to public health require this authorization to be refused. The mutual recognition procedure allows companies that have a medicinal product already authorized in one EU member state to apply for this authorization to be recognized by the competent authorities in other EU member states. 

The initial marketing authorization granted in the EU is valid for five years. Once renewed, the authorization is usually valid for an unlimited period unless the national competent authority or the EMA decides, on justified grounds relating to pharmacovigilance, which could include exposure of an insufficient number of patients to the product concerned, to proceed with one additional five-year renewal. The renewal of a marketing authorization is subject to a re-evaluation of the risk-benefit balance of the product by the national competent authorities or the EMA. 

In addition, products may be eligible for grant of marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances if an applicant for marketing authorization can demonstrate that comprehensive data on the efficacy and safety of the product under normal conditions of use cannot be provided due to certain specified objective and verifiable reasons. A marketing authorization granted under exceptional circumstances is valid for five years, but is subject to an annual reassessment of conditions imposed by the competent authorities, including conditions relating to the safety of the product, notification to the national competent authorities of any incident relating to its use, and actions to be taken. In October 2013, the EC granted marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances for Defitelio for the treatment of severe VOD in adults and children undergoing HSCT. 

The making available or placing on the EU market of unauthorized medicinal products is prohibited. However, the competent authorities of the EU member states may exceptionally and temporarily allow the supply of such products, either on a named patient basis or through a compassionate use process, to individual patients or a group of patients with a chronically or seriously debilitating disease or whose disease is considered to be life-threatening, and who cannot be treated satisfactorily by an authorized medicinal product. 

Clinical studies must currently be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the EU Clinical Trials Directive and applicable good clinical practice standards, as implemented into national legislation by EU member states. All entities conducting clinical trials in the EU will be required to comply with the requirements of the new EU Clinical Trials Regulation, which will take effect after May 28, 2016. The new EU Clinical Trials Regulation, which will replace the EU Clinical Trials Directive, introduces a complete overhaul of the existing regulation of clinical trials for medicinal products in the EU, including a new coordinated procedure for authorization of clinical trials that is reminiscent of the mutual recognition procedure for marketing authorization of medicinal products, and an obligation on sponsors to publish clinical trial results. 

The Hatch-Waxman Act 

The approval process described above for the U.S. is premised on the applicant being the owner of, or having obtained a right of reference to, all of the data required to prove the safety and effectiveness of a drug product. This type of marketing application, sometimes referred to as a &#8220;full&#8221; or &#8220;stand-alone&#8221; NDA, is governed by Section 505(b)(1) of the FDCA. A Section 505(b)(1) NDA contains full reports of investigations of safety and effectiveness, which includes the results of preclinical and clinical trials, together with detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product, in addition to other information as described above. 

Alternatively, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act, which updated certain sections of the FDCA, establishes two abbreviated approval pathways for drug products that are in some way follow-on versions of products already covered by an approved NDA. The first path, under Section 505(b)(2), is for the approval of a product that is similar, but not identical, to a previously-approved brand-name product, which is referred to as the &#8220;referenced drug.&#8221; Under this path, the applicant is permitted to rely to some degree on the FDA&#8217;s finding that the referenced drug is safe and effective, and must submit its own product-specific data of safety and effectiveness to the extent necessary because of the differences between the products. The FDA may then approve the new drug product for all or some of the label indications for which the referenced product has been approved, or for a new indication sought by the Section 505(b)(2) applicant. 

The second path established under the Hatch-Waxman Act is for the approval of generic drugs. Section 505(j) of the FDCA permits the submission of an ANDA for a generic version of an approved, brand-name drug. Generally, an ANDA must contain data and information showing that the proposed generic product and the approved referenced drug (1) have the same active ingredient, in the same strength and dosage form, to be delivered via the same route of administration, (2) are intended for the same uses, and (3) are bioequivalent. This data and information are provided instead of independently demonstrating the proposed generic product&#8217;s safety and effectiveness, which are inferred from the fact that the generic product is the same as the referenced drug the FDA previously found to be safe and effective. To date, seven potential generic drug manufacturers have filed ANDAs with the FDA requesting approval to market a generic version of Xyrem. Additional ANDAs may be filed seeking approval to market generic forms of Xyrem and/or other products. For a description of these matters, see &#8220;Legal Proceedings&#8221; in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

To the extent that an ANDA or a Section 505(b)(2) NDA applicant is relying on the FDA&#8217;s findings for an already-approved product, the applicant is required to certify that there are no patents listed for that product in the Orange Book, or that for each Orange Book-listed patent the listed patent has expired, or will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration, or the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the referenced product&#8217;s Orange Book-listed patents or that such patents are invalid is called a &#8220;Paragraph IV Patent Certification,&#8221; or Paragraph IV Certification. If the patent is for an approved method of use, an ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) applicant can also file a statement, called a &#8220;section viii statement,&#8221; that the application does not seek approval of the use covered by the listed patent. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents, the ANDA or the Section 505(b)(2) NDA will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired, as well as any additional period of exclusivity that might be obtained for completing pediatric studies pursuant to the FDA&#8217;s written request. The ANDA or the Section 505(b)(2) NDA may also be subject to delay in review or approval based on applicable non-patent exclusivities, such as exclusivity that results from obtaining approval of a new chemical entity or of a new use of a previously approved active ingredient. 

If the applicant has provided a Paragraph IV Certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send a notice of such certification to the holder of the NDA and the relevant patent holders once the ANDA or the Section 505(b)(2) NDA has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a legal challenge to the proposed generic product for infringing the patent. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of receipt of a notice of Paragraph IV Certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA or the Section 505(b)(2) NDA until the earliest of 30 months after the NDA holder&#8217;s receipt of the notice of Paragraph IV Certification, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant. The 30-month stay period may also be shortened or lengthened upon order of the court in the infringement lawsuit. For drugs with five-year exclusivity, if an action for patent infringement is initiated after year four of that exclusivity period, then the 30-month stay period is extended by such amount of time so that 7.5 years has elapsed since the approval of the NDA for the referenced drug. 

This period could be extended by six months if the NDA sponsor obtains pediatric exclusivity. Alternatively, if the listed patent holder does not file a patent infringement lawsuit within the required 45-day period, the applicant will not be subject to the 30-month stay. The FDA may issue tentative approval of an ANDA if the generic applicant meets all conditions for approval but cannot receive effective approval because the 30-month stay or a period of statutory exclusivity has not expired. 

We intend to vigorously defend any patents for our approved products, including our Orange Book-listed patents. Seven companies have sent us notices of Paragraph IV Certification that they have filed ANDAs with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Xyrem before the expiration of the Orange Book-listed patents relating to Xyrem. We have filed lawsuits seeking to prevent the introduction of a generic version of Xyrem that would infringe our patents. For a description of these matters, see &#8220;Legal Proceedings&#8221; in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If an ANDA is approved after the 30-month stay and before conclusion of any relevant patent litigation at the district, and potentially appellate, court, a generic manufacturer could nonetheless choose to commercialize the generic product, also known as a &#8220;launch at risk.&#8221; In the event of such commercialization, the generic manufacturer generally would be liable to us for damages if we ultimately prevail in the patent litigation. 

Section 505-1(i)(1) of the FDCA generally provides that (i) an ANDA with a referenced drug subject to the REMS requirements is required to have a REMS with the same elements as the referenced drug, such as a medication guide, a patient package insert and other ETASU, and (ii) the ANDA drug and the referenced drug shall use a single shared system to assure safe use. However, the FDA may waive this requirement for a single shared system and permit the ANDA holder to submit separate but comparable REMS documents if the FDA either determines that the burden of creating a single shared system outweighs its benefit, or if the ANDA applicant certifies that it has been unable to obtain a license to any aspects of the REMS for the referenced drug product that are covered by a patent or a trade secret. The FDCA provides that the FDA may seek to negotiate a license between the ANDA sponsor and the sponsor of the listed product before granting a waiver of the single shared system requirement. The FDCA further states that a REMS shall not be used by an NDA holder to block or delay generic drugs from entering the market. 

The FDA has stated that it expects the negotiation of a single shared REMS between an NDA holder and any ANDA applicant or applicants to proceed concurrently with the FDA&#8217;s review of the ANDAs. The FDA has further stated that it typically monitors the progress of industry working groups attempting to develop shared REMS, and that it has acted to help ensure that sponsors were cooperating and that there were no obstacles to developing a single shared system. In January 2014, the FDA held an initial meeting with us and the three then-current sodium oxybate ANDA applicants to facilitate the development of a single shared REMS for sodium oxybate. In October 2015, the FDA held a telephonic meeting with us and the seven current sodium oxybate ANDA applicants to discuss the status of the development of a single shared REMS for sodium oxybate. The parties had regular interactions with respect to developing a single shared REMS prior to this meeting, and we are seeking to continue the interactions with the goal of developing a single shared REMS. However, we are aware that, separate from the discussions with us, the FDA and ANDA applicants have exchanged communications regarding the potential development of a single shared REMS for sodium oxybate. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, interactions among the parties will continue or whether we will develop a single shared REMS. If we do not develop a single shared REMS or license or share intellectual property pertinent to our Xyrem REMS with generic competitors within a time frame or on terms that the FDA considers acceptable, the FDA may assert that its waiver authority permits it to approve the ANDA of one or more generic competitors with a separate REMS that differs from our approved Xyrem REMS. We cannot predict the outcome or impact on our business of any future action that we may take with respect to the development of a single shared REMS for sodium oxybate, licensing or sharing intellectual property pertinent to our Xyrem REMS, or the FDA&#8217;s response to a request by one or more ANDA applicants for a waiver of the requirement for a single shared REMS, including in connection with a certification that the applicant had been unable to obtain a license. For more information, see the risk factors under the headings &#8220; We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patents, other intellectual property rights and related matters, and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or commercialize, our products&#8221; and &#8220;The manufacture, distribution and sale of Xyrem are subject to significant regulatory oversight and restrictions and the requirements of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, and these restrictions and requirements, as well as the potential impact of changes to these restrictions and requirements, subject us to increased risks and uncertainties, any of which could negatively impact sales of Xyrem&#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 

10-K. 

We expect that the approval of an ANDA that results in the launch of a generic version of Xyrem would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. For more information, see the risk factor under the heading &#8220; We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patents, other intellectual property rights and related matters, and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or commercialize, our products &#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, newly approved drugs and indications may benefit from a statutory period of non-patent marketing exclusivity. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides five-year marketing exclusivity to the first applicant to gain approval 

of an NDA for a new chemical entity, meaning that the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety. The Hatch-Waxman Act prohibits the FDA from accepting for review an ANDA or a Section 505(b)(2) NDA for another version of such drug during the five-year exclusive period; however, as explained above, submission of an ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) NDA containing a Paragraph IV Certification is permitted after four years, which may trigger litigation leading to a 30-month stay of approval of the ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) NDA that could extend to 7.5 years after approval of the referenced drug. Protection under the Hatch-Waxman Act will not prevent the submission or approval of another &#8220;full&#8221; NDA; however, the applicant would be required to conduct its own preclinical and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for the approval of new and supplemental NDAs, including Section 505(b)(2) NDAs, for, among other things, new indications, dosages, or strengths of an existing drug, if new clinical investigations that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are determined by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application. 

The Hatch-Waxman Act also permits a patent term extension of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, a patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years after the FDA approves a marketing application. The patent term extension period is generally equal to the sum of one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA, and all of the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application, up to a total of five years. Only one patent applicable to a product or its use may be extended, and only if the regulatory review leads to the first commercial marketing of that drug, and the extension must be applied for prior to expiration of the patent. The USPTO, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves applications for patent term extension. We will consider applying for a patent term extension for some of our patents to add patent life beyond the expiration date, if we meet the legal requirements permitting an extension and depending on the expected length of clinical trials and other factors involved in the submission of an NDA. 

Orphan Drug and Other Exclusivities 

Some jurisdictions, including the U.S., may designate drugs or biologics for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. The FDA grants orphan drug designation to drugs or biologics intended to treat a rare disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S., or more than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. if there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the U.S. a drug or biologic for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the U.S. for that product. In the U.S., in order to obtain orphan drug designation, the designation must be requested before submitting an application for marketing approval. An orphan drug designation does not shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. However, if a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means the FDA may not approve any other application to market the same product for the same indication for a period of seven years from the time of FDA approval, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity. Competitors may receive approval of different drugs or biologics for the indications for which the orphan product has exclusivity. 

The FDA approved Xyrem as an orphan drug for the treatment of EDS and cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy, but those periods of orphan drug exclusivity have expired. Erwinaze has orphan drug exclusivity for the treatment of ALL until November 2018, seven years from its FDA approval. Defibrotide has orphan drug designation to treat and prevent VOD. 

Separately, Erwinaze, as a biologic product approved under a BLA, is subject to the BPCIA. The BPCIA authorizes the FDA to license a biological product that is biosimilar to an FDA-licensed biologic through an abbreviated pathway. The BPCIA establishes criteria for determining whether a product is biosimilar to an already-licensed biologic, or reference product, and establishes a process for an abbreviated BLA for a biosimilar product to be submitted, reviewed and approved. The BPCIA provides periods of exclusivity that protect a reference product from competition by biosimilars. Under the BPCIA, the FDA may not accept a biosimilar application for review until four years after the date of first licensure of the reference product, and the biosimilar cannot be licensed until 12 years after the reference product was first licensed. Because the BPCIA is a relatively new law, we anticipate that its impact on both reference product sponsors and biosimilar applicants will evolve over a period of years. Its implementation likely will be shaped by a variety of factors, including FDA issuance of guidance documents, proposed regulations, and decisions in the course of considering specific applications. Erwinaze is expected to receive exclusivity that prevents approval of a biosimilar in the U.S. through late 2023 under the BPCIA. 

Products also may be eligible for six months of additional exclusivity and patent protection if the sponsor submits pediatric data that fairly respond to a written request from the FDA for such data. The data do not need to show the product to be effective in the pediatric population studied; rather, if the clinical trial is deemed to fairly respond to the FDA&#8217;s request, the additional protection is granted. If reports of requested pediatric studies are submitted to and accepted by the FDA within statutory time limits, whatever statutory or regulatory periods of exclusivity or listed patent protection cover the drug are extended by six months. This is not a patent term extension, but it effectively extends the period during which, because of regulatory exclusivity or listed patents, the FDA cannot approve an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA. We will consider seeking 

pediatric exclusivity if we meet the legal requirements and believe it will be commercially beneficial. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2014, in response to a written request from the FDA to generate additional data, we initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of Xyrem in children and adolescents aged seven to 17 who have narcolepsy with cataplexy. 

In the EU, orphan drug designation may be granted to products that can be used to treat life-threatening diseases or chronically debilitating conditions with an incidence of no more than five in 10,000 people or that, for economic reasons, would be unlikely to be developed without incentives. In order to receive orphan drug designation, there must also be no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition, or if such a method exists, the medicine must potentially be of a significant benefit to those affected by the condition. Once authorized, orphan medicinal products are entitled to ten years of market exclusivity in all EU member states and a range of other benefits during the development and regulatory review process, including scientific assistance for study protocols, access to the centralized marketing authorization procedure and a reduction or elimination of registration and marketing authorization fees. However, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication during the ten-year period with the consent of the marketing authorization holder for the original orphan medicinal product or if the manufacturer of the original orphan medicinal product is unable to supply sufficient quantities. Marketing authorization may also be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication if the similar product is deemed safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the original orphan medicinal product. The period of market exclusivity may, in addition, be reduced to six years if it can be demonstrated on the basis of available evidence that the original orphan medicinal product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Defibrotide received orphan drug designation to treat and prevent VOD from the EMA prior to grant of marketing authorization in the EU and from the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. The Commonwealth of Australia-Department of Health has granted defibrotide orphan drug designation for the treatment of VOD. In addition, the EMA also granted orphan drug designation to defibrotide for the prevention of GvHD, another potentially fatal complication of HSCT. 

Post-Approval Regulation 

After approval, certain changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, making certain manufacturing changes, modifying a REMS or making certain additional labeling claims, are subject to further regulatory review and approval. Obtaining approval for a new indication generally requires that additional clinical studies be conducted. 

Often, even after a drug or biologic has been approved by the FDA for sale, the FDA may require that certain post-approval requirements be satisfied, including the conduct of additional clinical studies and trials. If such post-approval conditions are not satisfied, the FDA may impose civil monetary penalties, declare the product misbranded or prohibit the introduction of the drug in interstate commerce. Holders of an approved NDA or BLA are required to: report certain adverse reactions to the FDA; comply with certain requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling for their products; submit drug safety or adverse event reports; and continue to have quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP after approval. For example, the FDA&#8217;s approval of the BLA for Erwinaze includes a number of post-marketing commitments related to the manufacture of Erwinaze by us and PBL. 

Similarly, outside of the U.S., we are subject to a variety of post-authorization regulations, including with respect to clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, distribution, and safety reporting. For example, the marketing authorization in the EU for Defitelio was granted under exceptional circumstances and requires us to comply with a number of post-marketing obligations, including obligations relating to the manufacturing of the drug substance and finished product, the submission of data concerning patients treated with the product collected through a third-party patient registry and the establishment of a multi-center, multinational and prospective observational patient registry. 

We monitor adverse events resulting from the use of our commercial products, as do the regulatory authorities, and we file periodic reports with the authorities concerning adverse events. The FDA also periodically inspects our records related to safety reporting. Following such inspections, the FDA may issue notices on Form FDA 483 and warning letters that could cause us to modify certain activities. A Form FDA 483 notice, if issued at the conclusion of an FDA inspection, can list conditions the FDA investigators believe may have violated relevant FDA regulations or guidance. Failure to adequately and promptly correct the observation(s) can result in further regulatory enforcement action. 

The authorities review these events and reports, and if they determine that any events and/or reports indicate a trend or signal, they can require a change in a product label, restrict sales and marketing and/or require or conduct other actions, potentially including withdrawal or suspension of the product from the market. From time to time, the FDA issues drug safety communications on its adverse event reporting system based on its review of reported adverse events. For example, we changed our Xyrem label in 2012 in connection with an FDA drug safety communication reminding physicians and patients that the use of Xyrem with alcohol or central nervous system depressants can impair consciousness and lead to severe breathing problems. For more information, see the risk factor under the heading &#8220; The manufacture, distribution and sale of Xyrem are subject to significant regulatory oversight and restrictions and the requirements of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, 

and these restrictions and requirements, as well as the potential impact of changes to these restrictions and requirements, subject us to increased risks and uncertainties, any of which could negatively impact sales of Xyrem &#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The holder of an EU marketing authorization for a medicinal product must also comply with the EU&#8217;s recent pharmacovigilance legislation, which includes requirements for conducting pharmacovigilance, or the assessment and monitoring of the safety of medicinal products. This legislation enhanced the authority of the EMA and the competent authorities of the EU member states to require companies to conduct additional post-approval clinical efficacy and safety studies and increased the burden on companies with respect to additional monitoring, adverse event management and reporting. As part of the legislation and its related regulations and guidelines, marketing authorization holders may be required to conduct a labor intensive collection of data regarding the risks and benefits of marketed products and may be required to engage in ongoing assessments of those risks and benefits, including the possible requirement to conduct additional clinical studies, which may be time consuming and expensive and could impact profitability. The EMA reviews periodic safety update reports submitted by marketing authorization holders. If the EMA has concerns that the risk benefit profile of a product has varied, it can adopt an opinion advising that the existing marketing authorization for the product be varied and requiring the marketing authorization holder to conduct post-authorization safety studies. The opinion is then submitted for approval by the EC. Non-compliance with such obligations can lead to the variation, suspension or withdrawal of marketing authorization or imposition of financial penalties or other enforcement measures. 

The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated, and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We and our third party suppliers are subject to cGMP, which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards as defined by the FDA, the EMA, the competent authorities of EU member states and other regulatory authorities. The FDA also periodically inspects the sponsor&#8217;s records related to manufacturing facilities, which effort includes assessment of compliance with cGMP. Following such inspections, the FDA may also issue notices on Form FDA 483 and warning letters. We and our third party suppliers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. In addition to Form FDA 483 notices and warning letters, failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements may result in suspension of manufacturing, product seizure, withdrawal of the product from the market and criminal penalties, among other enforcement remedies. 

In addition, various requirements apply to the manufacturing and placing on the EU market of medicinal products. The manufacturing of medicinal products in the EU requires a manufacturing authorization, and the manufacturing authorization holder must comply with various requirements set out in the applicable EU laws, regulations and guidance. These requirements include compliance with EU equivalent cGMP standards when manufacturing medicinal products and active pharmaceutical ingredients, including the manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients outside of the EU with the intention to import the active pharmaceutical ingredients into the EU. Similarly, the distribution of medicinal products into and within the EU is subject to compliance with the applicable EU laws, regulations and guidelines, including the requirement to hold appropriate authorizations for distribution granted by the competent authorities of the EU member states. Marketing authorization holders may be subject to civil, criminal or administrative sanctions, including suspension of manufacturing authorization, in case of non-compliance with the EU or EU member states&#8217; requirements applicable to the manufacturing of medicinal products. 

U.S. Healthcare Reform 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, together the Healthcare Reform Act, is a sweeping measure intended to expand healthcare coverage within the U.S., primarily through the imposition of health insurance mandates on employers and individuals and expansion of the Medicaid program. This law substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, benefits for patients within a coverage gap in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the &#8220;donut hole&#8221;), rules regarding prescription drug benefits under the health insurance exchanges, changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, expansion of the Public Health Service&#8217;s 340B drug pricing discount program, or 340B program, fraud and abuse and enforcement. These changes impact existing government healthcare programs and are resulting in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. Details of the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program and the 340B program are discussed under the risk factor &#8220;If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects&#8221; &#32;in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Some states have elected not to expand their Medicaid programs by raising the income limit to 133% of the federal poverty level, as is permitted under the Healthcare Reform Act. For each state that does not choose to expand its Medicaid 

program, there may be fewer insured patients overall, which could impact our sales, business and financial condition. Where Medicaid patients receive insurance coverage under any of the new options made available through the Healthcare Reform Act, the possibility exists that manufacturers may be required to pay Medicaid rebates on drugs used under these circumstances, a decision that could impact manufacturer revenues. In addition, the federal government has announced delays in the implementation of key provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act, including the employer mandate. The implications of these delays for our sales, business and financial condition, if any, are not yet clear. 

Legislative changes to the Healthcare Reform Act remain possible. We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act, as currently enacted or as it may be amended, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase sales of our existing products or to successfully commercialize our product candidates, if approved. 

Other Regulatory Requirements 

We are also subject to regulation by other regional, national, state and local agencies, including the DEA, the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, the U.S. Department of Commerce, or DOC, the Office of Inspector General, or OIG, of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, and other regulatory bodies. In addition to the FDCA, other statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including preclinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, promotion, marketing, and pricing to government purchasers and government healthcare programs. Our partners, including our suppliers and distributors and the central pharmacy for Xyrem, are subject to many of the same requirements. 

Controlled Substance Regulations 

The DEA imposes various quota, registration, record keeping and reporting requirements, labeling and packaging requirements, importing, exporting, security controls and a restriction on prescription refills on certain pharmaceutical products that meet the definition of a controlled substance of listed chemical under the CSA. The states also impose similar requirements for handling controlled substances. Sodium oxybate, in the form of an active pharmaceutical ingredient, is regulated by the DEA as a Schedule I controlled substance, a category reserved for products believed to present the highest risk of substance abuse and with no approved medicinal use. When contained in Xyrem, sodium oxybate is regulated as a Schedule III controlled substance. 

The DEA limits the quantity of certain Schedule I controlled substances that may be produced in the U.S. in any given calendar year through a quota system. DEA quotas are required for our sodium oxybate supplier to supply us with sodium oxybate and for our Xyrem supplier to obtain sodium oxybate in order to supply us with Xyrem. Because the DEA typically grants quotas on an annual basis, our sodium oxybate supplier and our Xyrem supplier are required to request and justify allocation of sufficient annual DEA quotas as well as additional DEA quotas if our commercial or clinical requirements exceed the allocated quotas throughout the year. In the past, we have had to engage in lengthy efforts to obtain the needed quotas after the original annual quotas had first been allocated. For 2016, both our active pharmaceutical ingredient supplier and our Xyrem supplier have been allocated most, but not all, of their respective requested quotas. If, in the future, we and our third party suppliers cannot obtain the quotas that are needed on a timely basis, or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 

As a Schedule III drug, Xyrem is also subject to DEA and state regulations relating to manufacturing, storage, distribution and physician prescription procedures, including limitations on prescription refills. 

The third parties who perform our clinical and commercial manufacturing, distribution, dispensing and clinical studies for Xyrem are required to maintain necessary DEA registrations and state licenses. The DEA periodically inspects facilities for compliance with its rules and regulations. Failure to comply with current and future regulations of the DEA or relevant state authorities could lead to a variety of sanctions, including revocation or denial of renewal of DEA registrations, fines, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties, and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 

The U.S. and the EU member states are parties to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances (1971), or the 1971 Convention. Sodium oxybate is a derivative of GHB. GHB is controlled in Schedule II under the 1971 Convention. While the DEA imposes its own scheduling requirements in the U.S. under the CSA, the U.S. is obligated as a signatory to the 1971 Convention to ensure that drug scheduling in the U.S. is consistent with its obligations under the international treaties. Failure by us or any of our partners, including suppliers and distributors, to comply with international or domestic requirements could result in, among other things, additional operating costs to us, delays in shipments outside or into the U.S. and adverse regulatory actions. For more information, see the risk factor under the heading &#8220;We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our products&#8221; &#32;in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Sales and Marketing Regulations 

We are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws restricting certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. Liability under the federal anti-kickback statute may be established without a person or entity having actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. Violations of the federal anti-kickback statute may be punished by civil and criminal fines, imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. The federal civil False Claims Act, or the False Claims Act, prohibits, among other things, any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment of federal funds, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Violations of the False Claims Act may result in significant financial penalties and damages. In addition, the Physician Payment Sunshine provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act require extensive tracking of payments and transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and public reporting of the data collected, and government agencies and private entities may inquire about our marketing practices or pursue other enforcement activities based on the disclosures in those public reports. 

The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and the False Claims Act, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. A number of states now require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in the states. Other states restrict when pharmaceutical companies may provide meals to prescribers or engage in other marketing related activities. Some states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies and their outcomes. In addition, California, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Nevada require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes of conduct. Outside the U.S., we are also subject to similar regulations in those countries where we market and sell products. 

The number and complexity of both U.S. federal and state laws continue to increase, and additional governmental resources are being added to enforce these laws and to prosecute companies and individuals who are believed to be violating them. For more information regarding these laws and regulations, see the risk factor under the heading &#8220; We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our products &#8212; Other Regulatory Authorities &#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The FDA, the competent authorities of the EU member states and other governmental authorities require advertising and promotional labeling to be truthful and not misleading, and products to be marketed only for their approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA routinely provides its interpretations of that authority in informal communications and also in more formal communications such as untitled letters or warning letters, and although such communications may not be considered final agency decisions, companies may decide not to contest the agency&#8217;s interpretations so as to avoid disputes with the FDA, even if they believe the claims to be truthful, not misleading and otherwise lawful. 

The FDA, the competent authorities of the EU member states and other governmental authorities also actively investigate allegations of off-label promotion activities in order to enforce regulations prohibiting these types of activities. A company that is found to have promoted an approved product for off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative financial penalties and other remedies as well as criminal financial penalties and other sanctions. Even when a company is not determined to have engaged in off-label promotion, the allegation from government authorities or market participants that a company has engaged in such activities could have a significant impact on the company&#8217;s sales, business and financial condition. The U.S. government has also required companies that have engaged in such activities to enter into complex corporate integrity agreements and deferred- or non-prosecution agreements that impose significant reporting and other burdens on the affected companies. For all of our products, it is important that we maintain a comprehensive compliance program. Failure to maintain a comprehensive and effective compliance program, and to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into a combined comprehensive and effective compliance program on a timely basis, could subject us to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of the affected products, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. 

In the EU, the advertising and promotion of our products are subject to EU member states&#8217; laws governing promotion of medicinal products, interactions with physicians, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices. In addition, other legislation adopted by individual EU member states may apply to the advertising and promotion of medicinal products. These laws require that promotional materials and advertising in relation to medicinal products comply with the product&#8217;s Summary of Product Characteristics, or SmPC, as approved by the competent authorities. The SmPC is the document that provides information to physicians concerning the safe and effective use of the medicinal product. It forms an intrinsic and integral part of the marketing authorization granted for the medicinal product. Promotion of a medicinal product 

that does not comply with the SmPC is considered to constitute off-label promotion. The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU. The applicable laws at EU level and in the individual EU member states also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. Violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the EU could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment. These laws may further limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may also impose limitations on our promotional activities with health care professionals. 

To help patients afford our products, we have various programs to assist them, including patient assistance programs, a Xyrem free product voucher program and co-pay coupon programs for certain products. These programs and related risks are discussed in greater detail in the risk factor under the heading &#8220; Changes in healthcare law and implementing regulations, including those based on recently enacted legislation, as well as changes in healthcare policy, may impact our business in ways that we cannot currently predict and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition &#8221; in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Anti-Corruption Legislation 

Our business activities outside of the U.S. are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians&#8217; codes of professional conduct or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, or the UK Bribery Act. The FCPA and similar anti-corruption laws in foreign countries generally prohibit the offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to U.S. or non-U.S. government officials in order to improperly influence any act or decision, secure an improper advantage, or obtain or retain business. Excepted from the FCPA are payments to facilitate or expedite routine government action and bona fide, reasonable reimbursement of expenses. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the company and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. The UK Bribery Act prohibits giving, offering, or promising bribes to any person, including U.K. and non-U.K. government officials and private persons, as well as requesting, agreeing to receive, or accepting bribes from any person. In addition, under the UK Bribery Act, companies which carry on a business or part of a business in the U.K. may be held liable for bribes given, offered or promised to any person, including U.K. and non-U.K. government officials and private persons in any country, by employees and persons associated with the company in order to obtain or retain business or a business advantage for the company. Liability is strict, with no element of a corrupt state of mind, but a defense of having in place adequate procedures designed to prevent bribery is available. Furthermore, under the UK Bribery Act there is no exception for facilitation payments. As described above, our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, including officials of non-U.S. governments. Additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our dealings with these prescribers and purchasers may be subject to the FCPA. Recently the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the DOJ have increased their FCPA enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, private individuals who report to the SEC original information that leads to successful enforcement actions may be eligible for a monetary award. &#32;&#32; We are engaged in ongoing efforts that are designed to ensure our compliance with these laws, including due diligence, training, policies, procedures, and internal controls. However, there is no certainty that all employees and third party business partners (including our distributors, wholesalers, agents, contractors, and other partners) will comply with anti-bribery laws. In particular, we do not control the actions of our suppliers and other third party agents, although we may be liable for their actions. Violation of these laws may result in civil or criminal sanctions, which could include monetary fines, criminal penalties, and disgorgement of past profits, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. 

Data Privacy and Protection 

We are also subject to laws and regulations covering data privacy and the protection of health-related and other personal information. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues which may affect our business. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of personal information. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could create liability for us (including the imposition of significant penalties), result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. In addition, healthcare providers who prescribe our products and research institutions we collaborate with are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HIPAA. Although we are not directly subject to HIPAA other than with respect to providing certain employee benefits, we could potentially be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA. 

EU member states and other jurisdictions where we operate have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. For example, the EU Data Protection Directive, as implemented into national laws by the EU member states, imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. The EU Data Protection Directive prohibits the transfer of personal data to countries outside of the European Economic Area, or EEA, such as the U.S., which are not considered by the EC to provide an adequate level of data protection. Switzerland has adopted similar restrictions. Although there are legal mechanisms to allow for the transfer of personal data from the EEA and Switzerland to the U.S., a recent decision of the European Court of Justice that invalidated the safe harbor framework on which we have relied has increased uncertainty around compliance with EU privacy law requirements. As a result of the decision, it will no longer be possible to rely on safe harbor certification as a legal basis for the transfer of personal data from the EU to entities in the U.S. In addition, data protection authorities from the different EU member states may interpret the EU Data Protection Directive and national laws differently, and guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised, which adds to the complexity of processing personal data in the EU. If we or our vendors fail to comply with applicable data privacy laws, or if the legal mechanisms we or our vendors rely upon to allow for the transfer of personal data from the EEA or Switzerland to the U.S. (or other countries not considered by the EC to provide an adequate level of data protection) are not considered adequate, we could be subject to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and our business could be adversely impacted if our ability to transfer personal data outside of the EEA or Switzerland is restricted, which could adversely impact our operating results. In December 2015, a proposal for an EU General Data Protection Regulation, intended to replace the current EU Data Protection Directive, was agreed between the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the EC. The EU General Data Protection Regulation, which will be officially adopted in early 2016, will introduce new data protection requirements in the EU, as well as substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. The EU General Data Protection Regulation, which will be applicable two years after the date of its publication in the Official Journal for the European Union, will increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with the new EU data protection rules. 

Additional requirements and restrictions regarding, among other things, the export and importation of products, intellectual property rights, the environment, taxation and work safety apply in individual countries, and non-compliance with such requirements may result in civil, criminal or administrative sanctions. 

Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement 

Our ability to commercialize our products successfully, and to attract commercialization partners for our products, depends in significant part on the availability of adequate financial coverage and reimbursement from third party payors, including, in the U.S., governmental payors such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations and private health insurers. 

Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the U.S. to fundamental changes. There have been, and we expect there will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. We expect to experience pricing pressure in the U.S. in connection with the sale of our products due to managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations, additional legislative proposals to curb healthcare costs and negative publicity regarding pricing and price increases generally, which could limit the prices that we charge for our products, including Xyrem, limit our commercial opportunity and/or negatively impact revenues from sales of our products. We anticipate that the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and the private sector will continue to consider and may adopt healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs, particularly given the current atmosphere of mounting criticism of prescription costs in the U.S. These cost containment measures include controls on government-funded reimbursement for drugs; new or increased requirements to pay prescription drug rebates to government health care programs; pharmaceutical cost transparency bills that aim to require drug companies to justify their prices; controls on healthcare providers; challenges to the pricing of drugs or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific products through other means; requirements to try less expensive products or generics before a more expensive branded product; changes in drug importation laws; expansion of use of managed care systems in which healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person; and public funding for cost effectiveness research, which may be used by government and private third party payors to make coverage and payment decisions. For example, much attention has been paid to legislation proposing federal rebates on Medicare Part D and Medicare Advantage utilization for drugs issued to certain groups of lower income beneficiaries and the desire to change the provisions that treat these dual-eligible patients differently from traditional Medicare patients. Any such changes could have a negative impact on revenues from sales of our products. 

In addition, beginning April 1, 2013, Medicare payments for all items and services, including drugs and biologics, were reduced by 2% under the sequestration (i.e., automatic spending reductions) required by the Budget Control Act of 2011, as 

amended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. Subsequent legislation extended the 2% reduction, on average, to 2025. These cuts reduce reimbursement payments related to our products, which could potentially negatively impact our revenue. 

Third party payors decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement and co-pay levels. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and examining their cost effectiveness, in addition to their safety and efficacy. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the cost effectiveness of our products. Even with studies, our products may be considered less safe, less effective or less cost-effective than other products, and third party payors may not provide coverage and reimbursement for our products or any of our product candidates that we commercialize, in whole or in part. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Third party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the approved products for a particular indication. For example, third party payors have started to require discounts and/or exclusivity arrangements with some drug manufacturers in exchange for including a specific product on their formularies. Any such requirements could have a negative impact on revenues from sales of our products. 

Payors also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price, average manufacturer price and actual acquisition cost. The existing data for reimbursement based on these metrics is relatively limited, although certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates. Both Medicare and Medicaid are administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS. CMS surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information in the form of National Average Drug Acquisition Cost to provide state Medicaid agencies with a basis of comparison for their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. It is difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payors to cover our products. 

We participate in and have certain price reporting obligations to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, several state Medicaid supplemental rebate programs and other governmental pricing programs, and we have obligations to report the average sales price for the Medicare program. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, we are required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under Medicaid and Part B of the Medicare program. Those rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS. These data include the average manufacturer price and, in the case of innovator products, the best price for each drug which, in general, represents the lowest price available from the manufacturer to any entity in the U.S. in any pricing structure, calculated to include all sales and associated rebates, discounts and other price concessions. The status of price reporting submissions and potential liability for two radiopharmaceutical products that we divested in December 2013 and May 2015, respectively, is discussed in the risk factor under the heading &#8220; If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects&#8221; &#32;in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue from sales of Erwinaze is obtained through government payors, including Medicaid, and any failure to qualify for reimbursement for Erwinaze under those programs would have a material adverse effect on revenues from sales of Erwinaze. 

Federal law also requires that a company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program report the average sales price information each quarter to CMS for certain categories of drugs that are paid under Part B of the Medicare program. Manufacturers calculate the average sales price based on a statutorily defined formula and interpretations of the statute by CMS. CMS uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under Medicare Part B for our products and the resulting Medicare payment rate, and could negatively impact our results of operations. 

Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program also participate in the Public Health Service&#8217;s 340B drug pricing discount program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer&#8217;s drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily defined covered entities no more than the 340B &#8220;ceiling price&#8221; for the manufacturer&#8217;s covered outpatient drugs. These 340B covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price and rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid rebate program. Any changes to the definition of average manufacturer price and the Medicaid rebate amount under the Healthcare Reform Act could affect our 340B ceiling price calculations and negatively impact our results of operations. In January 2016, CMS issued a final rule to implement the changes to the Medicaid rebate program under the Healthcare Reform Act, and we are evaluating the impact of the final rule. 

We do not currently expect any material change to our calculations under the Medicaid rebate program or our 340B liability based on the recently released final rule. However, our business could be adversely affected if and to the extent our implementation of the final rule impacts our calculations under the Medicaid rebate program or our 340B liability, or if CMS challenges the approach we take in our implementation of the final rule. 

In order to be eligible to have our products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs and purchased by certain federal agencies, we participate in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, or VA, Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, pricing program. Under this program, we are obligated to make our product available for procurement on an FSS contract and charge a price to four federal agencies - the VA, U.S. Department of Defense, or DoD, Public Health Service and U.S. Coast Guard - that is no higher than the statutory Federal Ceiling Price, or FCP. The FCP is based on the non-federal average manufacturer price, or Non-FAMP, which we calculate and report to the VA on a quarterly and annual basis. We also participate in the Tricare Retail Pharmacy program, under which we pay quarterly rebates on utilization of innovator products that are dispensed through the Tricare Retail Pharmacy network to Tricare beneficiaries. The rebates are calculated as the difference between the annual Non-FAMP and FCP. 

Outside of the U.S., political, economic and regulatory developments are also subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes and challenges. Pressure by governments and other stakeholders on prices and reimbursement levels continue to exist. In various EU member states we expect to be subject to continuous cost-cutting measures, such as lower maximum prices, lower or lack of reimbursement coverage and incentives to use cheaper, usually generic, products as an alternative. Health Technology Assessment, or HTA, of medicinal products is becoming an increasingly common part of the pricing and reimbursement procedures in some EU member states. These EU member states include the U.K., France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Spain, and Sweden. The HTA process, which is governed by the national laws of these countries, is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact and the economic and societal impact of use of a given medicinal product in the national healthcare systems of the individual country is conducted. HTA generally focuses on the clinical efficacy and effectiveness, safety, cost and cost-effectiveness of individual medicinal products, as well as their potential implications for the healthcare system. Those elements of medicinal products are compared with other treatment options available on the market. The outcome of HTA regarding specific medicinal products will often influence the pricing and reimbursement status granted to these medicinal products by the competent authorities of individual EU member states. 

In the EU, our products are marketed through various channels and within different legal frameworks. In certain EU member states, reimbursement for unauthorized products is provided through national named patient or compassionate use programs. Such reimbursement may no longer be available if authorization for named patient or compassionate use programs expire or are terminated or if marketing authorization is granted for the product. In other EU member states, authorization and reimbursement policies may also delay commercialization of our products, or may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. After initial price and reimbursement approvals, reductions in prices and changes in reimbursement levels can be triggered by multiple factors, including reference pricing systems and publication of discounts by third party payors or authorities in other countries. In the EU, prices can be reduced further by parallel distribution and parallel trade, or arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states. 

We are unable to predict what additional legislation, regulations or policies, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation, regulations or policies would have on our business. Any cost containment measures, including those listed above, or other healthcare system reforms that are adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably in the EU. 

Employees 

As of February 17, 2016 , we had approximately 910 employees worldwide. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

Environment, Health and Safety 

Our operations are subject to complex and increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the countries where we operate and, in particular, in Italy and Ireland where we have manufacturing facilities. Our manufacturing activities in Italy and Ireland involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of chemicals and solvents. Environmental and health and safety authorities in the relevant jurisdictions administer laws that implement EU directives and regulations governing, among other matters, the emission of pollutants into the air (including the workplace), the discharge of pollutants into bodies of water, the storage, use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances, the exposure of persons to hazardous substances, and the general health, safety and welfare of employees and members of the public. In certain cases, such laws, directives and regulations may impose strict liability for pollution of the environment and contamination resulting 

from spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances or waste or any migration of such hazardous substances or waste. Costs, damages and/or fines may result from the presence, investigation and remediation of such contamination at properties currently or formerly owned, leased or operated by us or at off-site locations, including where we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances or waste. In addition, we may be subject to third party claims, including for natural resource damages, personal injury and property damage, in connection with such contamination. 

About Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc 

Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc was formed under the laws of Ireland (registered number 399192) as a private limited liability company in March 2005 under the name Azur Pharma Limited and was subsequently re-registered as a public limited company under the name Azur Pharma Public Limited Company, or Azur Pharma, in October 2011. On January 18, 2012, the businesses of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Azur Pharma were combined in a merger transaction, in connection with which Azur Pharma was re-named Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc and we became the parent company of and successor to Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. We refer to this transaction as the Azur Merger. 

Our predecessor, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc., was incorporated in California in March 2003 and was reincorporated in Delaware in January 2004. In the Azur Merger, all outstanding shares of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc.&#8217;s common stock were canceled and converted into the right to receive, on a one-for-one basis, our ordinary shares. 

In June 2012, we acquired EUSA Pharma Inc., or EUSA Pharma, which we refer to as the EUSA Acquisition, and in January 2014, we completed the Gentium Acquisition. 

Available Information 

We file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, as applicable, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and other information electronically with the SEC. Further copies of these reports are located at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. 

The mailing address of our headquarters is Fourth Floor, One Burlington Road, Dublin 4, Ireland, and our telephone number at that location is 353-1-634-7800. Our website is www.jazzpharmaceuticals.com. Through a link on our website, we make copies of our periodic and current reports, proxy statements and other information available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Information found on, or accessible through, our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

