 ITEM 1: BUSINESS 

Company Overview 

Our business is divided into two major segments: travel agency assistance services and convention services.

Travel Agency Assistance 

We provide services for overseas travel agents on hotel price quotation and negotiation, contract reviewing, detailed guests&#146; arrangements, hotel check-in assistance and tradeshow assistance. Overseas travel agents often encounter language barriers and time differences on office hours when dealing with U.S. based hotels and U.S. based conventions. We believe that our bilingual language services, flexible office hours, and reasonable fee structure will help our clients to increase accuracy and efficiency levels, and reduce costs.

As of June 30, 2016, we have a written agreement with two overseas travel agents. These overseas travel agencies work with exhibition service agents in their home country to coordinate the travel plans of tour groups that plan on attending exhibitions in the U.S. Depending on the exhibition, these tour groups can range from 30 to over 700 people. It is vital for the travel agents and exhibition services agents to provide their clients - Chinese businesses who exhibit in the trade show, a seamless and worry-free trip.

Our role is to help the travel agencies communicate with hotels and convention staff timely and accurately, including finding and negotiating hotel rate, reviewing and updating contracts, submitting and revising guest lists, group check-in (pick up and sorting the room keys for different groups), communicating on bill differences, etc. We currently have bilinguals that are fluent in English and Chinese. We plan to expand our staff of bilinguals to cater to other languages and countries other than China. Our main focus at the present time is to establish a presence in China and we intend to branch out to other Asian countries from there as resources permit.

We also have engaged with a travel agency to assist us with hotel booking and customer service assistance. It will act as a hotel booking service for groups of our clients that have sign up on their website. They will field customer service in the service of our clients at the hotels. 

Convention Services 

Our second business segment is catering to the individual exhibitors at the exhibitions. Exhibitors/ attendees often have temporary assistance needs at conventions and trade shows. We intend to assist these clients on exhibits display design, booth set up, tradeshow promotion material preparing, entourage interpreter and/or exhibitor booth personnel arrangements, including bilingual spokespersons, sales associates, narrators and demonstrators, hostesses/hosts, promoters and models. 

We also offer trade show marketing services, such as event website landing pages, convention specific Google AdWords campaigns, email marketing services before, during and after the event, as well as media distribution and posting to convention attendees.

We plan to provide clients with an event website that contains the information about the trade show. We work with our clients to ensure that all the data included in the website is accurate. Visitors who want to receive more information about the trade show are required to submit their email addresses. The event website will also include a file download section. There the organizers are able to share press kits, brochures about the trade show, and other features. The trade show website will include an e-commerce feature for product sales.

In order to increase awareness about the trade show, we are able to set up AdWords campaigns for clients. We make sure that we pick the right keywords for the event to maximize the reach of the campaign. Through the Google AdWords campaign, we will build leads and even set appointments even before the official start of the convention.

We plan to put the emails clients have collected from their websites into good use by starting an email marketing campaign. This is done before, during, and after the trade show. Through email marketing, clients are able to reach existing customers, acquire new ones, and make them part of the mailing list.

We also provide the distribution of flyers and other media during the day of the event. We make sure that all attendees get a flyer of our client&#146;s brand message. Our team will be position at the entrance and exit points to ensure everyone receives a copy of this media.

In addition to flyers, we also provide billboard advertising. We utilize both digital and static billboards that are strategically positioned along major roads going to and from the convention center. We also plan to use mobile static and digital billboards that are 10 feet in size. The mobile billboards will go up and down the Las Vegas strip. This is one way to put client brand in front of people throughout the day. We make sure that your brand is in front of the target market as soon as they land in Las Vegas. This is achieved by airport advertising cab ad advertising.

We are able to provide custom and pre-made booths, booth graphic design, and exhibit booth setup services to our clients. For clients looking for complete tradeshow exhibit booths, we provide turnkey solutions for sale. We offer top of the range Tablets, TV screens with stands, tables, and chairs, storage bins among others, to ensure that your tradeshow booth is highly inviting. We are able to work with clients on their required specifications and our staff is capable of delivery and assembly of attractive booth designs.

We do not yet have any clients in this business segment. We plan to utilize our travel agency and exhibition service agent contacts to reach out to these exhibitors and establish direct connections for our exhibition services. We may also work though these vital contacts as an extension of their services to these clientele. Furthermore, because we have a U.S. presence, we plan to reach out to the U.S. exhibitions to offer our services to these clientele.

We are a start-up company that was formed on May 11, 2015. To the present, we have engaged in formation activities, raising capital, and commencing operations. We have signed services contract with two travel agents to assist with hotel room price quotation and negotiation and communicating with hotels to ensure that accurate reservations are made with Chinese clientele. We have a per room fee that we charge for our services. Through June 30, 2016, we have generated nominal revenue from our agreement with our clients. We earned $8,010 in revenues from inception to June 30, 2016. We are also hopeful that we will engage in other contracts for the services we have outlined above.

We require additional capital necessary for us to grow our business. Our initial plans include: hiring necessary personnel, marketing our business, completing our website, purchasing equipment and software and further developing the service offering. There is no assurance that we will be successful in these endeavors or that if we accomplish all of these steps we will be able to operate profitably. We intend to fulfill the service needs of our potential customers by utilizing resources and employees in the United States, but, as we grow, we believe we can reduce costs and increase margins by utilizing personnel in foreign countries, such as China, to fulfill the services on behalf of our customers.

Through our services, we believe that clients will be able to gain the advantage of maintaining their growth goals without the need to sacrifice precious resources to address standard business bottlenecks. Our goal is to allow firms to retain their entrepreneurial speed and agility, advantages they would otherwise sacrifice in dealing with logistics rather than the specific focus of the client&#146;s business. We plan to allow clients to grow at a faster pace as they will be less constrained by large capital expenditures for people, training, equipment, or mistakes made from lack of experience in areas which are unrelated to the client&#146;s specific business purpose.

Our Estimated Expenses for the Next Twelve Months 

Management, Employees and Consulting 

We currently do not compensate our officer and director, Duan Fu. We plan to compensate him when we have enough money to do so. His main function is to oversee the entire plan of the company and engage in the day to day operations. His expertise is in design and business management. We expect that he will be instrumental in our marketing and advertising efforts. He will purchase keywords on Google AdWords to drive traffic to our website, and also purchase email lists and send bulk email to small and medium sized businesses to generate interest. We do not anticipate that we will enter into an employment agreement with Mr. Duan or compensate him with significant cash in the twelve months. We plan to provide him around $2,000 in cash monthly if and when it is available. As of June 30, 2016, we have not compensated Mr. Fu, since we want to utilize our capital on business operations and growth.

We have a consulting agreement with Zixiao Chen. Ms. Chen was a prior officer and director. She assisted with our formation activities and resigned shortly after our incorporation, opting for a consultant capacity with our company. In her agreement, dated July 11, 2015, we initially compensated her monthly with 60,000 shares of our common stock or $3,000. Her main function is to oversee the business accounts, dealing with clients and expanding the company&#146;s sales efforts. She will assist with creating timelines, data entry, plans and budgets for our clients. She will also establish the training program to train new employees on delivering the services, oversee and respond to concerns with our outsourced personnel. Her agreement provides her compensation in the form of shares of our common stock or cash, if available, as determined by our board of directors, on a monthly basis. If we are able to raise the money, we plan to compensate Ms. Chen $3,000 monthly. Ms. Chen received a pro-rated fee for what was owed to her as of September 30, 2015, but to focus our capital on operations and growth, we have accrued her fee for the quarter ended June 30, 2016.

We plan to hire a sales manager when funds are available, hopefully within the next three months. The sales manager will hire sales people for each geographical region. Sales staff will call leads generated from our marketing efforts, including mailing lists, and will engage in other sales techniques, like attending trade shows and networking. This sales manager will review and sign our service contracts with new customers. If we are able to raise the money, we plan to compensate our sales manager around $3,000 per month, plus commissions when available from sales. We anticipate hiring three members to our sales team when funds are available, hopefully within the next three months. Each sales staff member will make approximately $1,000 per month, plus commissions when available from sales.

We will also need to hire client account and customer service personnel. Ms. Chen will head the efforts of these personnel. They will assist her with working the accounts and service needs of our clients. We anticipate hiring one or two members to our accounts/service team when funds are available, hopefully within the next three months. Each member will make approximately $1,500-$2,000 per month.

Marketing and Sales 

We expect that most of our clients will be reached via email and phone calls from our sales personnel. As explained above, as business grows and we raise enough funds, we plan to hire employees. We also plan to rent a physical office. We plan to spend approximately $5,000 per month on Google Adwords, Paper-per-click (PPC), search engine marketing (SEM), search engine optimization (SEO) and other forms of online marketing. We will spend approximately $3,000 per month on purchasing email lists and engaging in print advertising with trade magazines and journals. These will be the main focus objectives with our marketing and sales budget for the next twelve months.

Website Development 

We plan to develop our website where we provide detailed information regarding our client services and the ability for clients to provide feedback on the types of services they needs from us. It cost $1,500 to build our website. Our website is currently up and running, but not yet completed. We will continue to refine the site, as funds are available, to provide more features and tools as our business operations dictate. 

&#160;

Equipment and Software 

In order to provide computers and software for our employees, we expect to spend around $50,000 in the next twelve months.

Legal and Accounting 

Our primary priority will be to retain our reporting status with the SEC, which means that we will first ensure that we have sufficient capital to cover our legal and accounting expenses. We estimate that these expenses will be $25,000 in the next twelve months.

Offices 

Currently, we have a mailbox address, but no office space. Our officer and consultants operate virtually. If the business grows and we successfully raise money, we plan to secure office space to conduct our operations. We estimate that we will need approximately 800 square feet of space and we estimate that it will cost us $1,000 - $1,500 per month in rent.

We will also have general and administrative expenses, including phone, utilities, insurance, business licenses and incidental expenses. These are estimated at approximately $32,000 for the next twelve months.

Our continuation in business after the expiration of one year and the employment of significant additional staff, will be dependent upon our achievement of profits from operations and/or obtaining capital from third party investors. Eventually, assuming our initial success in generating operating profits and raising capital from third party investors, management plans to expand the scope of our services and to begin to utilize foreign workers to fulfill our customer&#146;s service needs.

&#160; 

Competition 

&#160; 

Competition in all aspects of the outsourced services and business services industry is intense. We will compete against established outsourced business services companies with name familiarity and greater financial resources. We intend to use our relatively small size to our advantage by focusing on customer service and by deploying unique marketing strategies. A large part of our effort to compete against the other companies in our field will be directed to being recognized in this market of large players and, as a small company, to gain the trust of purchasing decision makers at our potential customers. In an effort to effectively compete, we will focus heavily on providing excellent service to our customers. We also intend to compete by running cutting edge marketing campaigns that use the internet and other technologies to educate the market about our services. Competitors may seek to duplicate the benefits of our services in ways that do not infringe on any benefits that our services offer. As a result we could find that our entire marketing plan and business model is undercut or made irrelevant by actions of other companies under which we have no control. We cannot promise that we can accomplish our marketing goals and as a result may experience negative impact upon our operating results.

Regulation 

&#160;

Federal, state and international laws and regulations impose a number of requirements and restrictions on our business. There are state and federal consumer protection laws that apply to our customer management services business, such as laws limiting telephonic sales or mandating special disclosures, and laws that apply to information that may be captured, used, shared and/or retained when sales are made and/or collections are attempted. State and federal laws also impose limits on credit account interest rates and fees, and their disclosure, as well as the time frame in which judicial actions may be initiated to enforce the collection of consumer accounts. There are numerous other federal, state, local and even international laws and regulations related to, among other things, privacy, identity theft, telephonic and electronic communications, sharing and use of consumer information that apply to our business and to our employees&#146; interactions and communications with others. For example, the Federal Trade Commission's Telemarketing Sales Rule applies a number of limitations and restrictions on our ability to make outbound calls on behalf of our clients and our ability to encourage customers to purchase higher value products and services on inbound calls. Similarly, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, which among other things governs the use of certain automated calling technologies, applies to calls to customers. Many states also have telemarketing laws that may apply to our business, even if the call originates from outside the state. Additionally, some of the laws directed toward credit originators, such as the Truth in Lending Act and the Fair Credit Billing Act, can affect our operations because our receivables were originated through credit transactions. These laws, among others, may give consumers a legal cause of action against us or may limit our ability to recover amounts owed with respect to the receivables.

&#160;

Federal and state regulators are empowered to examine and take enforcement actions for violations of these laws and regulations or for practices, policies or procedures they deem non-compliant, unfair, unsafe or unsound. Moreover, lawsuits may be brought by appropriate regulatory agencies, attorneys general and private parties for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Accordingly, a failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business could have a material adverse effect on us.

&#160;

New consumer protection and privacy protection laws or regulations are likely to impose additional requirements on the enforcement of and recovery on consumer credit card or installment accounts, telephonic sales, Internet communications and other portions of our business. We cannot ensure that some of the receivables were not established as a result of identity theft or unauthorized use of credit and, accordingly, we will not be able to recover the amount of these and other defaulted consumer receivables. As a purchaser of defaulted consumer receivables, we may acquire receivables subject to legitimate defenses on the part of the consumer. In general, our account purchase contracts allow us to return to the debt seller certain defaulted consumer receivables that may not be collectible, due to these and other circumstances. Upon return, the debt sellers are required to replace the receivables with similar receivables or repurchase the receivables. These provisions limit, to some extent, our potential losses on such accounts.

&#160;

Employees 

&#160; 

We currently have no employees other than our sole officer and director, Mr. Fu. Our officer serves us on a part time basis and is not compensated at this time. We also hired Ms. Zixiao Chen and Desert Skyline as our business consultant. Ms. Chen&#146;s services are described above and Desert Skyline will provide consulting services in the areas of business strategy, business connections related to trade shows and marketing, assembling and coordinating with the company&#146;s vendors, and those types of services. The consulting agreement with Desert Skyline was fulfilled and ended on May 21, 2016 and was not renewed.

&#160;

