 Item 1. 

Business 

Established in 1972, Houlihan Lokey, Inc., is a leading global independent investment bank with expertise in mergers and acquisitions (M&#38;A), financings, financial restructurings and financial advisory services. Through our offices in the United States, Europe, Asia and Australia, we serve a diverse set of clients worldwide including corporations, financial sponsors and government agencies. We provide our financial professionals with an integrated platform that enables them to deliver meaningful and differentiated advice to our clients. We advise our clients on critical strategic and financial decisions, employing a rigorous analytical approach coupled with deep product and industry expertise. We market our services through our product areas, our industry groups and our Financial Sponsors group, serving our clients in three primary business practices: Corporate Finance (encompassing M&#38;A and capital markets advisory), Financial Restructuring (both out&#8209;of&#8209;court and in formal bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings) and Financial Advisory Services (including financial opinions, and a variety of valuation and financial consulting services). 

We are committed to a set of principles that serve as the backbone to our success. Independent advice and intellectual rigor, combined with consistent senior&#8209;level involvement, are hallmarks of our commitment to client service. Our entrepreneurial culture engenders our flexibility to collaborate across our business practices to provide world&#8209;class solutions for our clients. Our broad-based employee ownership serves to align the interests of employees and shareholders and further encourages a collaborative environment where our Corporate Finance, Financial Restructuring and Financial Advisory Services business practices work together productively and creatively to solve our clients&#8217; most critical financial issues. We enter into businesses or offer services where we believe we can excel based on our expertise, analytical sophistication, industry focus and competitive dynamics. Finally, we remain independent and specialized, focusing on advisory products and market segments where our expertise is both differentiating and less subject to conflicts of interest arising from non&#8209;advisory services, and where we believe we can be a market leader in a particular segment. We do not lend or engage in any securities sales and trading operations or research which might conflict with our clients&#8217; interests. 

As of March 31, 2016, we had a team of 837 financial professionals across 19 offices globally and an additional five offices through our joint ventures, serving approximately 800 clients annually over the past several years, ranging from closely held companies to Fortune Global 500 corporations. Information on our segments is set forth in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

Our Advisory Services 

We provide our financial professionals with an integrated platform that enables them to deliver meaningful and differentiated advice to our clients. We market our services through our three business practices described below, our industry groups and our Financial Sponsors group, who work collaboratively to deliver comprehensive solutions and seamless execution for our clients. This marketing effort is combined with an extensive network of referral relationships with law firms, consulting firms, accounting firms and other professional services firms that have been developed by our Financial Advisory Services professionals who maintain those relationships as potential referral sources and direct clients across all of our business practices. 

Corporate Finance 

As of March 31, 2016, we had 89 Corporate Finance Managing Directors utilizing a collaborative, interdisciplinary approach in order to provide our clients with extensive industry experience, product expertise and global reach in a wide variety of M&#38;A and financing transactions. We compete with boutique firms focused on particular industries or geographies as well as other independent investment banks and bulge&#8209;bracket firms. A majority of our engagements represent mid&#8209;cap transactions, which we believe is an attractive segment that is underserved by bulge&#8209;bracket investment banks. We believe that our deep sector expertise, significant senior banker involvement and attention, strong financial sponsor relationships and global platform provide a compelling value for our clients, engendering long&#8209;term relationships and making it difficult for our peers to compete against us in this segment of the market. 

We believe that through our industry groups we have a meaningful presence in every major industry segment, including aerospace &#38; defense; business services; consumer, food &#38; retail; energy; financial institutions; healthcare; industrials; real estate, lodging &#38; leisure; technology, media &#38; telecommunications; and transportation &#38; logistics. We continue to expand and deepen our specialized industry capabilities through a combination of internal promotion, external hires and acquisitions. While the majority of our engagements are in the United States, we continue to enhance our M&#38;A presence in other geographies, including Europe, Asia and Australia, and we believe there will be continued opportunities to grow in regions throughout the rest of the world. 

Our Corporate Finance activities are comprised of two significant categories: 

Mergers &#38; Acquisitions: &#32;&#32;We have extensive expertise in mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, activist shareholder and takeover defense, and other related advisory services for a broad range of United States and international clients. Our Corporate Finance professionals have relationships with thousands of companies and financial sponsors, providing us with valuable insights into a wide variety of relevant markets. 

Our M&#38;A business consists primarily of sell-side and buy-side engagements. In particular, we believe we have developed a reputation in the marketplace as one of the most prolific sell-side advisors, consistently selling more companies under $1 billion than any competitor. We offer our advice to a diverse set of parties, including public and private company executives, boards of directors, special committees and financial sponsors. 

We believe our team of experienced and talented financial professionals is well positioned to provide advice across a wide range of M&#38;A advisory services globally, including sell-side, buy-side, joint ventures, asset sales and divestitures that are less subject to conflicts of interest arising from non&#8209;advisory services. Our global industry group model with embedded M&#38;A capabilities brings sector&#8209;specific knowledge, experience and relationships to our clients, allowing us to provide differentiated expert advice and connect buyers on a global basis. 

Capital Markets Advisory: &#32;&#32;We provide global financing solutions and capital&#8209;raising advisory services for a broad range of corporate and private equity clients across most industry sectors, from large, publicly&#8209;held, multinational corporations to financial sponsors to privately&#8209;held companies founded and run by entrepreneurs. 

Our Capital Markets Advisory professionals leverage a wide array of longstanding, senior&#8209;level lender and investor relationships, including with traditional and non&#8209;traditional direct capital providers (such as institutional credit funds, commercial finance companies, business development companies, insurance companies, pension funds, mutual funds, global asset managers, special situations investors and structured equity providers). As the traditional syndicated capital markets are becoming increasingly complex and more regulated, the private capital markets have developed to provide an alternative source of flexible capital that can be tailored to meet clients&#8217; needs. 

We believe we excel in providing our clients with sophisticated and thoughtful advice and access to traditional and non&#8209;traditional capital providers in the private and public capital markets. Our objective is to create a capital structure that enables our clients to achieve their strategic priorities on the best terms available in the market, which often involves raising more than one type of capital, sometimes from multiple capital providers. 

Financial Restructuring 

As of March 31, 2016, we had 42 Financial Restructuring Managing Directors working around the globe, which we believe constitutes one of the largest restructuring groups in the investment banking industry. Our Financial Restructuring group has earned a reputation for being the advisor of choice for many of the largest and most complex restructurings, offering knowledge, experience and creativity to address challenging situations. We operate in all major worldwide markets as debt issuances have increased around the world. Our Financial Restructuring professionals bring to bear deep expertise and experience in restructurings in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia, Australia, the Middle East, Latin America and Africa. Given the depth and breadth of the team&#8217;s expertise and the high barriers to entry for this expertise and experience, international and multi&#8209;jurisdictional restructurings represent an attractive opportunity for our Financial Restructuring group. 

The group employs an interdisciplinary approach to engagements, calling upon the expertise of our industry groups, Capital Markets Advisory group and Financial Sponsors group, and drawing on the worldwide resources of the Financial Restructuring team as each situation may require. The Financial Restructuring group is deeply experienced in evaluating complex, highly leveraged situations. In addition to comprehensive financial restructurings, we work with distressed companies on engagements involving changes of control, asset sales and other M&#38;A and capital markets activities, many times involving the sale of a company or its assets quickly, and in contested or litigious settings on expedited timeframes. We advise companies undergoing financial restructuring and creditor constituencies at all levels of the capital structure, in both out&#8209;of&#8209;court negotiations and in formal bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. Our experience, geographic diversity and size allow us to provide the immediate attention and staffing required for time&#8209;sensitive and mission&#8209;critical restructuring assignments, making us a valued partner for our clients. 

Our dedicated team is active throughout business cycles. Our Financial Restructuring practice serves as a countercyclical hedge across macroeconomic cycles, with increasing levels of restructuring opportunities occurring during periods when demand for M&#38;A and capital markets advisory services may be reduced. In robust macro&#8209;economic environments, demand for the services of our Financial Restructuring team generally continues due to opportunities arising from secular and cyclical disruptions in certain 

industries. Our geographic diversity and global market leadership allow us to maintain significant levels of activity even when the U.S. capital markets are vibrant. 

Our broad base of clients and our extensive experience allow us to understand the dynamics of each restructuring situation and strengthen our negotiating strategies by providing us insight into the needs, attitudes and positions of all parties&#8209;in&#8209;interest. Our clients include companies, bondholder groups, financial institutions, banks and other secured creditor groups, trade creditors, official Chapter 11 creditors&#8217; committees, equity holders, acquirers, equity sponsors and other parties&#8209;in&#8209;interest involved with financially challenged companies. 

Our Financial Restructuring professionals work closely with our Corporate Finance and Financial Advisory Services professionals to provide holistic advice. In financial restructuring assignments, our team may represent the company, the creditors or other stakeholders. 

Financial Advisory Services 

Our Financial Advisory Services practice is one of our original practices and dates back more than 40 years. As of March 31, 2016, we had 34 Managing Directors in this practice, and we believe we are one of the largest and most respected valuation and financial opinion practices in the United States. We believe we are a thought&#8209;leader in the field of valuation and strategic consulting, and our professionals produce influential studies and publications, which are recognized and valued throughout the financial industry. We believe our extensive transaction expertise and leadership in these fields inspire confidence in the financial executives, boards of directors, special committees, retained counsel, investors and business owners that we serve. We believe that our reputation for delivering an outstanding analytical product that will withstand legal or regulatory scrutiny coupled with our independence makes us the advisor of choice for clients that seek to obtain a complex valuation or transaction opinion. 

Our core competencies in our Financial Advisory Services practice are our ability to analyze and value companies, security interests, and different types of assets, including intellectual property and liabilities, as well as our ability to analyze the financial aspects of transactions. We are organized around different service areas as each area has different areas of regulatory or compliance specializations, different valuation guidelines as well as different marketing channels. 

Our People 

Our goal is to attract, develop and retain the best talent in our industry across all levels. We believe our compensation programs are competitive, offering a portion of compensation in deferred cash and a portion in deferred stock awards to provide incentives for our employees to remain with us. In addition, we strive to foster a collaborative environment to attract and retain employees, and we seek individuals who fit our culture of entrepreneurship, integrity, creativity and commitment to our clients. For over 20 years, we have emphasized broad employee ownership as a way to align the incentives of our employees and shareholders. We adopted the 2016 Incentive Award Plan in order to facilitate the grant of cash and equity incentives to directors, employees (including our named executive officers) and consultants of our company and certain of its affiliates, and to enable our company and its affiliates to obtain and retain services of these individuals, which is essential to our long&#8209;term success. As of March 31, 2016, we had approximately 400 employee shareholders that collectively owned approximately 48% of our equity with no single employee owning more than 3% of our equity. We believe that a strong emphasis on cultural fit during our recruiting process combined with broad employee ownership results in high retention rates. 

Our Managing Directors (other than our executive officers) are compensated based on their ability to deliver profitable revenues on a consistent basis to the firm, the quality of advice and execution provided to our clients, and their collaboration with their colleagues across industries, products and regions. We do not compensate on a commission&#8209;based pay model. Our compensation structure for junior financial professionals is based on a system of meritocracy whereby bankers are rewarded for past performance and expectation of future development, and compensation levels are tested against prevailing market compensation for bankers at similar levels. 

The primary sources of recruitment for our junior financial professionals are leading undergraduate and graduate programs around the world. Our consistent hiring practices year after year have created partnerships with these prestigious institutions and resulted in a steady and high-quality pipeline of junior financial professionals. To supplement this annual class of new hires, we opportunistically and strategically hire professionals with experience and backgrounds relevant to our various businesses. Regardless of title, we place a high degree of emphasis on cultural fit, technical capability and individual character. When we hire junior financial professionals, we hire them directly into one of our business practices to enable them to begin to develop their relevant skill set from day one. 

Across our firm, we devote significant time and resources to training and mentoring our employees to ensure every person achieves their highest possible potential. We strive to identify and cultivate future leaders within the firm and are committed to developing our brightest and most ambitious junior professionals into Managing Directors. This philosophy of investing in our 

people has been and will continue to be core to our culture and organization. As of March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we employed 1,171, 953 and 871 people, respectively, worldwide. 

Competition 

Our competitors are other investment banking and financial advisory firms. We compete on both a global and a regional basis, and on the basis of a number of factors, including industry knowledge, transaction execution skills, strength of client relationship, reputation and price. We believe our primary competitors vary by product and industry expertise and would include the following: for our Corporate Finance practice, Harris Williams &#38; Co., Jefferies LLC, Lazard Ltd, Moelis &#38; Company, N M Rothschild &#38; Sons Limited, Piper Jaffray Companies, Robert W. Baird &#38; Co. Incorporated, William Blair &#38; Company, L.L.C. and the bulge&#8209;bracket investment banking firms; for our Financial Restructuring practice, Lazard Ltd, Moelis &#38; Company, PJT Partners and N M Rothschild &#38; Sons Limited; and for our Financial Advisory Services practice, Duff &#38; Phelps Corp. and the &#8220;big four&#8221; accounting firms. 

We compete with all of the above as well as with regional and industry&#8209;focused boutique firms to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete effectively in our business will depend upon our ability to attract new employees and retain our existing employees. We may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain situations with regard to certain of our competitors who are able to, and regularly do, provide financing or market making services that are often instrumental in effecting transactions. 

Regulation 

Our business, as well as the financial services industry generally, is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and across the globe. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the United States and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of customers participating in those markets, not with protecting the interests of our stockholders or creditors. In the United States, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") is the federal agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. Houlihan Lokey Capital, Inc. (&#8220;Houlihan Lokey Capital&#8221;), our wholly owned subsidiary, through which we conduct our Corporate Finance, Financial Restructuring and transaction opinion businesses in the United States, is registered as a broker&#8209;dealer with the SEC. Houlihan Lokey Capital is subject to regulation and oversight by the SEC. In addition, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("FINRA"), a self&#8209;regulatory organization that is subject to oversight by the SEC, adopts and enforces rules governing the conduct, and examines the activities, of its broker&#8209;dealer member firms, including Houlihan Lokey Capital. State securities regulators also have regulatory or oversight authority over Houlihan Lokey Capital in those states in which it does business. 

Broker&#8209;dealers are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods, trade practices, the financing of customers&#8217; purchases, capital structure, record&#8209;keeping and the conduct and qualifications of directors, officers and employees. In particular, as a registered broker&#8209;dealer and member of a self&#8209;regulatory organization, we are subject to the SEC&#8217;s uniform net capital rule, Rule 15c3&#8209;1. Rule 15c3&#8209;1 specifies the minimum level of net capital a broker&#8209;dealer must maintain and also requires that a significant part of a broker&#8209;dealer&#8217;s assets be kept in relatively liquid form. The SEC and various self&#8209;regulatory organizations impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, limit the ratio of subordinated debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker&#8209;dealer and constrain the ability of a broker&#8209;dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the SEC&#8217;s uniform net capital rule imposes certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker&#8209;dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC for certain withdrawals of capital. 

Houlihan Lokey Financial Advisors, Inc. (&#8220;HLFA&#8221;), our wholly owned subsidiary and a registered investment adviser with the SEC, receives compensation for providing investment management services to private investment funds that are exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. As a registered investment adviser, HLFA is subject to the SEC&#8217;s regulatory oversight, rules and examination. Therefore, among other things, HLFA is required to adopt and implement written policies and procedures designed to prevent, detect, and correct violations of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended; prepare and file certain reports on both an annual and ongoing basis with the SEC; adopt a code of ethics that governs certain of its employees&#8217; conduct in order to both meet its fiduciary obligations to its advisory clients; and comply with federal securities laws, and maintain regular books and records relating to its investment advisory business. 

HLFA&#8217;s advisory, administrative and financial services to its clients include (i) advising with respect to the acquisition, management, financing, monitoring and disposition of investments, (ii) representing the funds in their day&#8209;to&#8209;day dealings with accountants, attorneys, custodians, insurers and banks, among others, and (iii) regularly monitoring and supervising service providers. In addition to its investment management services, HLFA also provides valuation services and related financial analyses of various businesses and types of assets which are used by clients in connection with mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporation redemptions, dispute analysis, and estate, gift and income tax support. In rendering such analyses, HLFA does not: 

(i) make recommendations or provide advice with respect to the merits of any security or transaction, the suitability of transacting in any security, or any investment decision with respect to any security, or (ii) manage or hold client accounts, securities or funds. 

Certain parts of our business are subject to compliance with laws and regulations of United States federal and state governments, non&#8209;United States governments, their respective agencies and/or various self&#8209;regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to, among other things, the privacy of client information, and any failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. 

Europe 

At the present time, our European advisory business is conducted principally through our wholly owned subsidiary, Houlihan Lokey (Europe) Limited, a limited company organized under the laws of England and Wales, with its main office in the United Kingdom and branches in France, Germany and Spain. However, we are currently planning and are seeking necessary governmental approvals to transfer Houlihan Lokey (Europe) Limited&#8217;s business to Houlihan Lokey EMEA, LLP. 

Houlihan Lokey (Europe) Limited is and we anticipate that Houlihan Lokey EMEA, LLP will be authorized and regulated by the United Kingdom&#8217;s Financial Conduct Authority. The current UK regulatory regime is based upon the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (&#8220;FSMA&#8221;), together with secondary legislation and other rules made under FSMA. These rules govern our financial advisory business in the United Kingdom, including the carrying on regulated activities, record keeping, approval standards for individuals, anti&#8209;money laundering and periodic reporting. It is anticipated that as a result of the transfer of its business to Houlihan Lokey EMEA, LLP, Houlihan Lokey (Europe) Limited will surrender its authorized status during the course of 2016. 

Houlihan Lokey (Europe) Limited has exercised the appropriate European financial services passport rights to provide cross&#8209;border services into all other members of the European Economic Area (the &#8220;EEA&#8221;) from the United Kingdom and to establish branches in France, Germany and Spain. These &#8220;passport&#8221; rights derive from the pan&#8209;European regime established by the EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, which regulates the provision of investment services and activities throughout the EEA. We expect that Houlihan Lokey EMEA, LLP will acquire the branch businesses of Houlihan Lokey (Europe) Limited, including its "passport" rights. A referendum in the United Kingdom is currently scheduled for June 23, 2016 regarding the withdrawal of the U.K. from the European Union. If the majority vote is in favor of withdrawal, then there will be a two-year time period in which the terms of withdrawal will be negotiated. In the event the U.K. withdraws from the European Union, there may be impacts on our European business that are unknown at this time and/or may result in costs that are indeterminate at this time. 

As referred to above, we are currently planning to convert the legal status of the Company&#8217;s operations in the United Kingdom from being undertaken through a private limited company (Houlihan Lokey (Europe) Limited) to through a limited liability partnership (Houlihan Lokey EMEA, LLP) with the aim of providing a more flexible and collaborative business model for senior staff working in that country. In connection with that conversion, certain senior employees in the United Kingdom will become limited partners, owning less than 10% of the partnership interests in that limited liability partnership. The limited liability partnership status is not anticipated to significantly affect the delivery of our services in that country. 

Furthermore, in November 2015 we acquired the German, Dutch and Spanish corporate finance advisory businesses of Leonardo &#38; Co. NV, a European-based investment banking firm ("Leonardo"), by means of acquiring the entire issued share capital of its subsidiary providing such services in each such jurisdiction, and entered into a joint venture arrangement in relation to Leonardo's Italian business by means of acquisition of a minority (49 percent) interest. In light of the scope of services provided by these entities, none of them are regulated in relation thereto by a financial services regulator in the jurisdictions in which they operate. 

Hong Kong 

In Hong Kong, the Securities and Futures Commission (the &#8220;SFC&#8221;) regulates our subsidiary, Houlihan Lokey (China) Limited. The compliance requirements of the SFC include, among other things, various codes of conduct and certain capital requirements. The SFC licenses the activities of the officers, directors, employees of Houlihan Lokey (China) Limited, and requires the registration of such individuals as licensed representatives. 

Australia 

Houlihan Lokey (Australia) Pty Limited, the entity operating our joint venture in Australia, is licensed and subject to regulation by the Australian Securities &#38; Investments Commission and must also comply with applicable provisions of the Corporations Act 2001 and other Australian legal and regulatory requirements, including capital adequacy rules, customer protection rules, and compliance with other applicable trading and investment banking regulations. 

Other 

The United States and non&#8209;United States government agencies and self&#8209;regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the United States, are empowered to conduct periodic examinations and initiate administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease&#8209;and&#8209;desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker&#8209;dealer or its directors, officers or employees. 

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and the Treasury Department&#8217;s implementing federal regulations require us, as a &#8220;financial institution,&#8221; to establish and maintain an anti&#8209;money&#8209;laundering program. In connection with its administration and enforcement of economic and trade sanctions based on United States foreign policy and national security goals, the Treasury Department&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;) publishes a list of individuals and companies owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, targeted countries. It also lists individuals, groups and entities, such as terrorists and narcotics traffickers, designated under programs that are not country&#8209;specific. Collectively, such individuals and companies are called &#8220;Specially Designated Nationals&#8221; (&#8220;SDNs&#8221;). Assets of SDNs are blocked, and we are generally prohibited from dealing with them. In addition, OFAC administers a number of comprehensive sanctions and embargoes that target certain countries, governments and geographic regions. We are generally prohibited from engaging in transactions involving any country, region or government that is subject to such comprehensive sanctions. 

The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the "FCPA") and the UK 2010 Bribery Act prohibit the payment of bribes to foreign government officials and political figures. The FCPA has a broad reach, covering all United States companies and citizens doing business abroad, among others, and defining a foreign official to include not only those holding public office but also local citizens acting in an official capacity for or on behalf of foreign government&#8209;run or &#8209;owned organizations or public international organizations. The FCPA also requires maintenance of appropriate books and records and maintenance of adequate internal controls to prevent and detect possible FCPA violations. Similarly, the UK 2010 Bribery Act prohibits us from bribing, being bribed or making other prohibited payments to government officials or other persons to obtain or retain business or gain some other business advantage. 

Organizational Structure 

Overview 

Houlihan Lokey, Inc. is a holding company that operates our business through its subsidiaries, the primary subsidiaries being Houlihan Lokey Capital, HLFA and Houlihan Lokey EMEA LLP (whose business was recently transferred from Houlihan Lokey (Europe) Limited), each of which is described above under "Regulation." 

The diagram below depicts our current organizational structure and the percentages are as of March 31, 2016. 

Corporate Reorganization and IPO 

Prior to our IPO, we completed an internal corporate restructuring, which we refer to herein as the corporate reorganization. Previously, our business was indirectly controlled by ORIX USA with the HL Holders having the remaining, significant minority ownership interest in Fram, the indirect parent of the Company. In the corporate reorganization, through a series of steps, ORIX USA and the HL Holders exchanged their shares in Fram for shares of Class B common stock of the Company. In connection with the IPO, the HL Holders deposited their common stock in the Company to the HL Voting Trust. In the IPO, ORIX USA and the HL Holders sold a portion of their Class B common stock, which were converted into shares of Class A common stock. 

HL Voting Trust Agreement 

In connection with the corporate reorganization and the IPO, we entered into the Voting Trust Agreement (the "HL Voting Trust Agreement") dated as of August 18, 2015 with the HL Holders and the trustees of the HL Voting Trust. Pursuant to the HL Voting Trust Agreement, the trustees have the right to vote the shares of our common stock deposited by any HL Holder, together with any shares of Class B common stock acquired by such HL Holder, in their sole and absolute discretion on any matter, without fiduciary duties of any kind to the HL Holders. As of March 31, 2016, the HL Voting Trust controlled approximately 58.1% of the total voting power of the Company. 

Lock&#8209;Up Agreements 

In connection with the corporate reorganization, each HL Holder depositing shares of our common stock into the HL Voting Trust also entered into an individual lock&#8209;up agreement with the Company. Under these lock&#8209;up agreements, shares of our common stock deposited into the HL Voting Trust and beneficially owned by the HL Holders will generally be locked up for a period of three years following the effective date of the IPO, after which these shares will become transferable in three equal installments on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the IPO; provided &#32;that shares of our common stock held by managing directors and certain senior corporate officers of the Company whose employment with us or any of our subsidiaries terminates prior to the third anniversary of the IPO for reasons other than death or disability will be subject to transfer restrictions, and will be ineligible to participate in any follow&#8209;on offerings, in each case, through the seventh anniversary of the IPO. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the lock&#8209;up agreements provide that following the expiration of the 180&#8209;day underwriters&#8217; lock&#8209;up: 

&#8226; 

up to 10% of each HL Holder&#8217;s shares held through the HL Voting Trust may be transferred for the purpose of charitable gifts and transfers to various family trusts for estate planning purposes, with any shares transferred under this exception reducing the number of shares that become transferable on the next transferability date; and 

&#8226; 

our board of directors may authorize sales in underwritten offerings in accordance with the terms of the registration rights agreement entered into between HL and the HL Holders; provided that any shares sold under this exception will reduce the number of shares that become transferable on the next transferability date. 

Under the lock&#8209;up agreements, our board of directors may consent to exceptions to those transfer restrictions, subject to any limitations or conditions imposed by it. 

Stockholders&#8217; Agreement 

In connection with the IPO, we entered into the Stockholders&#8217; Agreement dated as of August 18, 2015 (the "Stockholders' Agreement") with ORIX USA and the trustees on behalf of the HL Voting Trust. Pursuant to the Stockholders&#8217; Agreement, our board of directors initially consisted of ten members, with ORIX USA and the trustees on behalf of the HL Voting Trust each having the right to recommend the nomination of four of the ten board members. The number of board members that ORIX USA is entitled to recommend for nomination is subject to maintaining certain ownership thresholds. If ORIX USA loses its right to recommend for nomination any director nominees pursuant to the terms of the Stockholders&#8217; Agreement, these positions will generally be filled by individuals recommended for nomination by the trustees on behalf of the HL Voting Trust. The Stockholders&#8217; Agreement also provides that approval of two&#8209;thirds of the board will be required for certain corporate actions for a period of time based on ORIX USA&#8217;s continuing ownership level. In addition, under the Stockholders&#8217; Agreement, we have agreed with ORIX USA upon certain standards to be satisfied in order for shares of our common stock subject to individual lock&#8209;up agreements to participate in underwritten offerings. 

Controlled Company 

The HL Voting Trust and ORIX USA control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a &#8220;controlled company&#8221; under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a &#8220;controlled company&#8221; and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance standards, including the requirements that (i) a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors and (ii) that our board of directors have compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees composed entirely of independent directors, as independence is defined in Rule 10A&#8209;3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. For at least some period following the IPO, we intend to utilize these exemptions. As a result, although we have a fully independent audit committee as required by the New York Stock Exchange, we do not expect that the majority of our directors will be independent for some time. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock&#8212;We are a &#8220;controlled company&#8221; within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Holders of Class A common stock do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.&#8221; In the event that we cease to be a &#8220;controlled company&#8221; and our shares continue to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, we will be required to comply with these provisions within the applicable transition periods. 

Market and Industry Data 

The industry, market and competitive position data referenced throughout this Form 10-K are based on research, industry and general publications, including surveys and studies conducted by third parties. Industry rankings are as reported by Thomson Reuters unless otherwise noted. Thomson Reuters industry rankings are sourced through direct deal submissions from financial institutions coupled with research performed by Thomson Reuters analysts. Industry publications, surveys and studies generally state that they have been obtained from sources believed to be reliable. We have not independently verified such third party information. While we are not aware of any misstatements regarding any industry, market or similar data presented herein, such data involve uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed under the headings &#8220;Cautionary Note Regarding Forward&#8209;Looking Statements&#8221; and &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in this Form 10-K. 

In this Form 10-K, we use the term &#8220;independent investment banks&#8221; or &#8220;independent advisors&#8221; when referring to ourselves and other investment banks or financial advisors that are primarily focused on advisory services and that conduct no or limited commercial banking, lending, or securities sales and trading activities, which we believe are well positioned to provide uncompromised advice that is less subject to conflicts of interest arising from non&#8209;advisory services. In this Form 10-K, we use the term &#8220;mid&#8209;cap&#8221; when referring to transactions with a value below $1 billion and &#8220;large&#8209;cap&#8221; when referring to transactions with a value in excess of or equal to $1 billion. 

Other Information 

&#32; Our website address is www.hl.com. We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website ( http://investors.hl.com ) this Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including our Proxy Statements and reports filed by officers and directors under Section 16(a) of that Act, as well as various governance documents. From time to time, we may use our website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding the Company is routinely posted on and accessible at http://investors.hl.com . We do not intend for information contained in our website to be part of this Form 10-K. The inclusion of our website address in this Form 10-K does not include or incorporate by reference the information on our website into this Form 10-K or any other document into which this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference. 

Any materials we file with the SEC may be inspected without charge at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, and copies of all or any part of this Form 10-K may be obtained from the SEC upon payment of the prescribed fee. Information on the operation of the public reference facilities may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is http://www.sec.gov . 

