 Item 1. Business. 

Company Overview 

Yelp connects people with great local businesses by bringing &#147;word of mouth&#148; online and providing a platform for businesses and consumers to engage and transact. With a total of approximately 95.2 million cumulative reviews of almost every type of local business in more than 30 countries as of December 31, 2015, we are one of the world&#146;s leading local business review sites. 

Our platform provides value to consumers and businesses alike by connecting consumers with great local businesses at the critical moment when they are deciding where to spend their money. The key strengths of our platform include: 

&#9679; Discovery. Our platform is transforming the way people discover local businesses. Each day, millions of consumers visit our website or use our mobile app to find great local businesses to meet their everyday needs. Our strong brand and the quality of our content have enabled us to attract this large audience with low traffic acquisition costs. 

&#160; &#9679; Engagement. Yelp provides a platform for consumers to share their everyday local business experiences, through reviews, tips, photos and videos, and engage directly with businesses, through reviews, phone calls and our Message the Business feature. Our platform also provides businesses of all sizes with a variety of free and paid services that help them engage with consumers. Businesses can register a business account for free and &#147;claim&#148; the Yelp business listing page for each of their locations, allowing them to enhance the page with additional information about their business and respond to reviews, among other features. 

&#160; &#9679; Advertising. Businesses that want to reach our large audience of purchase intent-driven consumers can also pay for premium services to promote themselves through targeted search advertising, discounted offers and further enhancements to their business listing pages. We previously offered display advertising and brand sponsorships for national brands as well; however, we phased out these products over the second half of 2015 to focus on our core strength of local advertising and to ensure that we continue providing a great consumer experience, as discussed in greater detail below. We generate revenue primarily from the sale of advertising on our website and mobile app to businesses. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we generated net revenue of $549.7 million, representing 46% growth over 2014, a net loss of $32.9 million and adjusted EBITDA of $69.1 million. For information on how we define and calculate adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to net income (loss), see &#147; Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#151; Non-GAAP Financial Measures &#148; in this Annual Report. 

&#160; &#9679; Transactions. In 2013, we introduced the Yelp Platform, which allows consumers to transact with local businesses in new ways directly on Yelp. In addition to providing consumers with a continuous experience from discovery to completion of transactions such as ordering food through a local delivery service and booking spa appointments, the Yelp Platform creates an additional point of consumer engagement for local businesses. In February 2015, we acquired Eat24Hours.com, Inc., or Eat24, a leading online food ordering service that we had previously partnered with on the Yelp Platform, to drive daily engagement in our restaurant vertical. 

At the heart of our business are the vibrant communities of contributors across the world that contribute the content on our platform. These contributors provide rich, firsthand information about local businesses in the form of reviews and ratings, tips, photos and videos. Each review, tip, photo and video expands the breadth and depth of the content on our platform, which drives a powerful network effect: the expanded content draws in more consumers and more prospective contributors. Although measures of our content (including our cumulative review metric) and traffic (including our desktop and mobile unique visitors metrics) do not factor directly into the advertising arrangements we have with our advertising customers, this network effect underpins our ability to deliver clicks and ad impressions to advertisers. Increases in these metrics improve our value proposition to local businesses as they seek easy-to-use and effective advertising solutions. For this reason, we foster and support communities of contributors and make the consumer experience our highest priority. 

Of the approximately 95.2 million cumulative reviews our contributors had submitted through December 31, 2015, approximately 68.0 million were recommended and available on business listing pages; approximately 20.7 million were not recommended and available on secondary pages; and approximately 6.5 million had been removed from our platform. Although they do not factor into a business&#146;s overall star rating, we provide access to reviews that are not recommended because they provide additional perspectives and information on reviewed businesses, as well as transparency of the efficacy of our automated recommendation software. 

The reviews contributed to our platform cover a wide set of local business categories, including restaurants, shopping, beauty and fitness, arts, entertainment and events, home and local services, health, nightlife, travel and hotel, auto and other categories. In the charts below, we highlight the breakdown by industry of local businesses that have received reviews on our platform and the breakdown by industry of reviews contributed to our platform through December 31, 2015. 

Reviewed Businesses* 

Reviews* 

* The charts above include information based upon all contributed reviews and include some businesses that have only received reviews that are not recommended or have been removed. We believe that the concentration of reviews in the restaurant and shopping categories in particular is primarily due to the frequency with which individuals visit specific businesses or engage in certain activities versus others. For example, an individual may eat at a restaurant three times in one week or go shopping once a week, but the same individual is unlikely to visit a mechanic, get a haircut or use a home or local service with the same frequency. The top five industry categories accounted for an aggregate of 76% of our local revenue for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, broken down as follows: Home &#38; Local Services, 28%; Restaurants, 15%; Beauty &#38; Fitness, 12%; Health, 11%; and Shopping, 10%. 

Our Products 

Local 

We provide both free and paid business listing products to businesses of all sizes. We also enable businesses to deliver targeted search advertising to large local audiences through our website and mobile app. We recognize revenue from these products as local revenue. 

Free Online Business Account &#160; We enable businesses to create a free online business account and claim the listing page for each of their business locations. With their free business accounts, businesses can view trends (e.g. statistics and charts of the performance of their pages on our platform), use the Revenue Estimator tool (e.g. to quantify the revenue opportunity Yelp provides), message customers (e.g. to reply to reviews either publicly or privately), update information (e.g. address, hours of operation) and offer Yelp Deals and Gift Certificates (as described below). 

&#160; &#160; Enhanced Profile Our enhanced profile solution eliminates ads from a business&#146;s listing page and allows the business to incorporate a video clip or photo slide show on the page. Businesses can also promote a desired transaction of their choosing &#151; such as scheduling an appointment or printing a coupon &#151; directly on their business listing pages with our Call to Action feature. This feature transfers consumers from a business&#146;s listing page to the business&#146;s own website to complete the action. 

Branded Profile &#160; For businesses with ten or more locations, our branded profile solution offers the ability to incorporate a video clip or photo slide show, as well as a Call to Action button, on each location&#146;s business listing page. 

&#160; Search and Other Ads We allow businesses to promote themselves as a sponsored search result on our platform and on the listing pages of related businesses. We now sell ads primarily on a per-click basis, though we also offer impression-based ads. 

&#160; &#160; Online Reservations We provide restaurants, nightlife and certain other venues with the ability to offer online reservations directly from their Yelp business listing pages through our SeatMe product, which also offers front-of-house management tools. We also offer Yelp Reservations, a free tool with basic reservation functionality for businesses in the restaurant and nightlife categories. 

Transactions 

In addition to our business listing and advertising products, we also offer several features and consumer-interactive tools to facilitate transactions between consumers and the local businesses they find on Yelp. We recognize revenue from these sources on a net basis as transactions revenue. 

Eat24 &#160; Our Eat24 business generates revenue through arrangements with restaurants in which restaurants pay a commission percentage fee on orders placed through Eat24&#146;s platform. 

&#160; Yelp Platform The Yelp Platform allows consumers to transact directly on Yelp. Through our integration of Eat24 and partnerships with companies including Booker, BloomNation and CellarPass, consumers are currently able to complete food delivery transactions, book spa and salon appointments, order flowers and make winery reservations, among others, all without leaving Yelp. 

&#160; &#160; Yelp Deals Our Yelp Deals product allows local business owners to create promotional discounted deals for their products and services, which are marketed to consumers through our platform. Yelp Deals typically have a fee structure based solely on transaction volume with no upfront costs, and we typically earn a fee based on the discounted price of each deal sold. We process all customer payments and remit to the business the revenue share of any Yelp Deal purchased. 

&#160; Gift Certificates Our Gift Certificates product allows local business owners to sell full-price gift certificates directly to consumers through their business listing pages. The business chooses the price point to offer (from $10 to $500), and consumers may purchase Gift Certificates denominated in such amounts. We earn a fee based on the amount of the Gift Certificate sold. We process all consumer payments and remit to the business the revenue share of any Gift Certificate purchased. 

Brand 

Through the end of 2015, we also offered advertising solutions for national brands in the form of display advertisements and brand sponsorships. We phased out these products over the second half of 2015 and redeployed the associated internal resources, including members of our brand sales team, elsewhere within our organization. Due to certain negative trends in the broader market for brand advertising products &#151; in particular, the shift toward programmatic advertising and increasing advertiser demand for products such as video ads that are disruptive to the consumer experience &#151; we believe this decision will provide us with a long-term strategic advantage by allowing us to focus on our core strength of local advertising and to ensure that we continue to provide a great consumer experience. We recognized revenue from these products as brand revenue through the end of 2015. 

Other Services 

We generate other revenue through partner arrangements and monetization of remnant advertising inventory through third-party ad networks. Our partner arrangements include allowing third-party data providers to update business listing information on behalf of businesses and resale of our local advertising products by certain partners. We recognize revenue from these sources as other services revenue. 

Revenue by Product 

The following table provides a breakdown of our revenue by product for the years indicated: 

Year Ended December 31, &#160; 2015 &#160; 2014 &#160; 2013 (as a percentage of net revenue) Net revenue by product: Local 82 % 85 % 83 % Transactions 8 % 1 % 2 % Brand advertising 6 % 9 % 12 % Other services 4 % 5 % 3 % Total net revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 5 

Our Strategy 

Our mission is to connect people with great local businesses. We focus on the following key strategies to grow our business, audience of consumers and advertiser base: 

Network Effect 

&#9679; Grow Our Communities. As the number of contributors and consumers within Yelp communities continues to grow, we expect our platform to become more widely known and relevant to broader audiences, further driving the growth of reviews, consumers and local business activity. We plan to continue investing in marketing to leverage our brand and benefit from these network dynamics. In 2015, we launched our first television advertising campaign to increase consumer awareness of our brand, and we plan to continue testing various advertising channels in 2016. We also expanded our team of Community Ambassadors &#151; a part-time position similar to Community Managers &#151; to foster and support contributors in our smaller communities. 

&#160; &#9679; Increase Engagement. By continuing to develop a feature-rich experience for consumers, we believe we can increase the number of visits and searches per user. We plan to continue to innovate and explore ways to expand our content and further enable contributors to share their local experiences, including on new and evolving platforms and distribution channels such as automobile navigation systems, wearable devices and voice-enabled mobile devices. For example, in 2015, we launched versions of our mobile app for the Apple Watch and Samsung Gear S2 smartwatch. We believe the continued expansion of the Yelp Platform will also drive further engagement, and acquired Eat24 in 2015 to that end. In addition, we plan to continue to invest in the development of our mobile platform, and our mobile app in particular, to take advantage of the growing number of consumers accessing Yelp through their mobile devices. 

&#160; &#9679; Provide a Great Consumer Experience. We believe that providing a great consumer experience has been and will continue to be critical to growing our business; accordingly, as we explore opportunities to monetize our products, we remain committed to a high standard of user experience. We will not incorporate advertising or other products or solutions that we believe may excessively degrade the user experience and potentially alienate users, even if they might result in increased short-term monetization. For example, we phased out our brand advertising products in 2015 in part because demand in the brand advertising market has shifted toward products disruptive to the consumer experience. We also plan to continue our consumer protection efforts. In 2015, for example, we partnered with ProPublica, a public interest news organization, to incorporate health care statistics and consumer opinion survey data onto the business listing pages of medical treatment facilities, as well as expanded our consumer alerts program. 

Enhance Monetization 

&#9679; Focus on Local. Our core strength is our local advertising business in the United States. This business has a significant and growing base of revenue, and we plan to continue to pursue initiatives to enhance our opportunity in this area. In 2015, for example, we phased out our brand advertising products and redeployed the associated internal resources elsewhere within our organization, allowing us to focus on our local advertising products. We also invested in our account management processes to improve customer service. 

&#160; &#9679; Attract More Businesses. As of December 31, 2015, we were recognizing local revenue from approximately 111,000 local advertising accounts; with approximately 63 million local businesses on our platform as of that date, we believe there is significant opportunity to increase the number of local businesses advertising on Yelp. In particular, we believe that the continued expansion of the Yelp Platform, new business owner products and comprehensive tools to measure the effectiveness of our products will encourage businesses to advertise on our platform. For example, in 2015, we expanded the Yelp Platform to provide consumers with the ability to book a golf tee time, send flowers, book bottle service at night clubs and schedule legal consultations. We will also continue our local business outreach efforts, which include educating local businesses on how Yelp provides value to them as well as engaging with business owners to gain insight into how we can improve our products and services. In addition to our ongoing outreach efforts, such as the Yelp Small Business Advisory Council, we held our first business leader summit in 2015, which brought 100 entrepreneurs representing 86 communities in the United States and Canada to our offices for two days of conversation and strategizing. 

&#160; &#9679; Expand Our Sales Efforts. We plan to continue to grow our sales force and explore sales partnerships so we can reach more businesses. We have invested, and will continue to invest, aggressively in sales resources, including increases in headcount and initiatives to increase sales force productivity. We are also testing different sales channels, such as sales representative-assisted self-service advertising, to provide business owners with convenient options for purchasing our products. We believe these ongoing investments will lead to additional local businesses advertising on Yelp. In addition, we will continue to explore partnerships, such as our YP partnership, for the sale of our products. 

Marketing 

Community Management 

We have a team of Community Managers and Community Ambassadors based across the United States and in 31 countries internationally, whose primary goals are to support and grow their local communities of contributors, raise brand awareness and engage with their surrounding communities through: 

&#9679; planning and executing fun and engaging events for the community, such as parties, outings and activities at restaurants, museums, hotels and other local places of interest; 

&#160; &#9679; getting to know community members and helping them get to know one another to foster an offline community experience that can be transferred online; 

&#160; &#9679; promoting Yelp, including guest appearances on local television and radio, and at local events such as concerts and street fairs; and 

&#160; &#9679; writing weekly e-mail newsletters to share information with the community about local businesses, events and activities. 

Through these activities, we believe our community management team helps us increase awareness of our platform and grow avid communities who are willing to contribute content to our platform. These active contributors may be invited to attend sponsored social events, but do not receive compensation for their contributions. This community growth drives the network effect whereby contributed reviews expand the breadth and depth of our content base. This expansion draws an increasing number of consumers to access the content on our platform, thus inspiring new and existing contributors to create additional reviews that can be shared with this growing audience. 

There are currently active Yelp communities in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States. 

Community Development 

The Yelp communities that we have established to date have generally followed a similar development path: a pre-launch content development phase, followed by the hiring of a Community Manager, leading to review growth and consumer activity, which, at scale, supports our sales efforts to local businesses. 

We select new locations based on a number of different location-specific criteria, including, but not limited to, population size, local gross domestic product, pre-existing base of reviews on our platform, Internet and wireless penetration, proximity to existing markets, number of local businesses and local ad market growth. 

Before launching in any country, we license business listing information from third-party data providers and create individual pages for each business location in the entire country. During this pre-launch preparation phase, we often hire temporary local employees, called &#147;scouts,&#148; to provide additional rich content, such as reviews, photos and hours of operation. To bolster the integrity of the content they provide, we closely monitor their contributions to the platform, prohibit them from reviewing businesses with which they have a conflict of interest and identify them in their public profiles as paid contributors. At launch, consumers can read and write reviews about any business on our platform and contribute information about businesses that are not already listed. 

After launch, we focus on attracting a community of contributors, consumers and local businesses to our platform by hiring a Community Manager to raise brand awareness and foster local engagement as described above. At scale, our platform reaches a critical mass of reviews, consumers and claimed local business accounts, and we begin an active sales effort with local businesses. Thereafter, our largest expense is related to sales efforts to attract local business advertising customers. In Yelp communities that have attained this level of development, we expect to achieve economies of scale and operating cost leverage. 

To further illustrate the development of Yelp communities as they scale, we highlight below our review and revenue metrics for three cohorts of Yelp communities in the United States: the Yelp communities that we launched in 2005-2006; the Yelp communities that we launched in 2007-2008; and the Yelp communities that we launched in 2009-2010. 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Year-Over- &#160; &#160; Year-Over- Year Average Year Average Growth in Local Growth in Number of Cumulative Average Revenue Average &#160; Yelp Reviews Cumulative in Q4 Local U.S. Market Cohort Communities (1) in Q4 2015 (2) Reviews (3) 2015 (4) Revenue (5) 2005 &#150; 2006 Cohort 6 &#160; 6,071 28% $ 8,476 30% 2007 &#150; 2008 Cohort 14 1,353 &#160; 32% &#160; $ 2,431 &#160; 35% 2009 &#150; 2010 Cohort 18 479 39% $ 655 39% 8 

____________________

(1) &#160; A Yelp community is defined as a city or region in which we have hired a Community Manager. &#160; (2) Average cumulative reviews is defined as the total cumulative reviews of the cohort as of December 31, 2015 (in thousands), including the reviews that were not recommended or had been removed from our platform, divided by the number of Yelp communities in the cohort. &#160; (3) Year-over-year growth in average cumulative reviews compares the average cumulative reviews as of December 31, 2015 with the average cumulative reviews as of December 31, 2014. &#160; (4) Average local revenue is defined as the total local revenue from businesses in the cohort for the quarter ended December 31, 2015 (in thousands), divided by the number of Yelp communities in the cohort. &#160; (5) Year-over-year growth in average local revenue compares average local revenue for the quarter ended December 31, 2015 with the average local revenue for the quarter ended December 31, 2014. In general, the Yelp communities in our earlier U.S. community cohorts are more populous than those in later cohorts, and we have already entered many of the largest cities in the United States and Europe. For these and other reasons, launching additional communities may not yield results similar to those of our existing communities, particularly in the United States. As a result, we believe that development of our existing communities currently provides the greatest opportunity for growth, and plan to focus our community development efforts on existing communities in 2016. 

Advertising 

Prior to the second half of 2014, we had not spent significantly on marketing programs, but instead focused on organic and viral growth driven by our community development efforts as described above. However, we believe there is significant opportunity to increase our brand awareness and, in the longer term, traffic through targeted advertising programs. We began selectively testing advertising to consumers in the second half of 2014, and launched our first television advertising campaign in 2015. We plan to continue testing various advertising channels in 2016. Our marketing expenses may increase if we significantly expand these efforts to attract additional consumers. 

Sales 

We sell our products directly through our sales force, indirectly through partners and online through our website. Our sales force consisted of 2,220 employees as of December 31, 2015 and is located across our offices in San Francisco, California; Scottsdale, Arizona; New York, New York; Chicago, Illinois; Dublin, Ireland; and Hamburg, Germany. 

Direct Sales. A large majority of our sales force is dedicated to selling our local advertising products, with a significantly smaller component responsible for selling Eat24 and SeatMe products. Historically, another small component of our sales force was responsible for selling display advertisements and brand sponsorships to national advertisers; however, we phased out our brand advertising products in 2015 and redeployed the associated internal resources, including members of our brand sales team, elsewhere within our organization. Local sales representatives are primarily responsible for generating qualified sales leads by identifying and contacting local businesses through direct engagement, direct marketing campaigns and weekly e-mails to claimed local businesses. To date, our sales force has focused on increasing revenue by adding new customers, and our sales representatives are typically compensated on the basis of advertising sold in a given period. 

Sales Partnerships. In 2014, we entered into a partnership with YP under which YP sells certain of our local advertising products as part of a package with its own advertising products to its advertiser base. The products covered by this arrangement include our enhanced profile and Call to Action products. We continue to explore additional partnerships for the sale or bundling of our products. 

Self-Service Ads. Our online, or self-service, sales channel allows businesses to purchase local advertising solutions directly from our website. Businesses can purchase performance-based cost-per-click sponsored search advertising directly through this channel. We are continuing to test approaches to this sales channel, including by offering the option of speaking with a sales representative. 

Account Management. Although the focus of our sales force is on adding new customers, we also see opportunity to deepen our relationships with existing customers. To this end, our account management team supports existing local business advertisers, primarily in a customer service role. Our account managers are currently salaried rather than commission-based employees. 

Technology 

Product development and innovation are core pillars of our strategy. We aim to delight our users and business partners with our products. We provide our web-based and mobile services using a combination of in-house and third-party technology solutions and products. 

&#9679; Search and Ranking Technology. We leverage the data stored on our platform and our proprietary indexing and ranking techniques to provide our users with contextual, relevant and up-to-date results to their search queries. For example, a consumer desiring environmentally friendly carpet cleaners does not have to call individual cleaners to inquire about their use of chemical-based cleaning solutions. Instead, the consumer can search for &#147;environmentally-friendly carpet cleaners&#148; on Yelp and discover cleaners with the best service and &#147;green&#148; cleaning products that serve a specific neighborhood. &#160; 

&#9679; Recommendation Software. We employ our proprietary automated recommendation software to analyze and screen all reviews submitted to our platform. We believe our recommendation technology is one of the key contributors to the quality and integrity of the reviews on our platform and the success of our service. See &#147;&#151; Consumer Protection Efforts &#148; below for additional details regarding our recommendation software. &#160; 

&#9679; Mobile Solutions . The number of people who access information about local businesses through mobile devices has increased dramatically over the past few years and is expected to continue to increase. We have seen substantial growth in mobile usage, and anticipate that growth in use of our mobile platform will be the driver of our growth for the foreseeable future. Our most engaged users are on our mobile app, making it particularly critical to our continued success. For example, in the quarter ended December 31, 2015, our mobile devices accounted for approximately 70% of all searches and approximately 63% of all ad clicks on our platform. 

To take advantage of this trend, we have invested significant resources into the development of our comprehensive mobile platform for consumers supporting the major smartphone operating systems available today, iOS and Android. Over time, we have enhanced the functionality of our mobile platform, such that it provides similar and, in some areas, greater functionality than our website. Some of the innovations we introduced through our mobile platform include &#147;check-ins,&#148; &#147;tips,&#148; &#147;comments,&#148; &#147;Nearby&#148; and &#147;Monocle,&#148; our augmented reality feature. More recently, we also launched a mobile app for business owners, designed to make it easier for them to engage with their customers and manage their Yelp profiles. The Yelp for Business Owners app is currently available for iOS and Android. &#160; 

&#9679; Advertising Technologies . We use proprietary ad targeting and delivery technologies designed to provide relevant local advertisements. Our proprietary ad delivery system leverages our unique repository of data to provide useful ads to users and high value leads to advertisers. &#160; 

&#9679; Infrastructure . Our web and mobile platforms are currently hosted from multiple locations. The primary and secondary locations are within shared data center environments in California and Virginia. We also host parts of our infrastructure through Amazon Web Services, as well as with third-party leased server providers. Our web and mobile platforms are designed to have high availability, from the Internet connectivity providers we choose, to the servers, databases and networking hardware that we deploy. We design our systems such that the failure of any individual component is not expected to affect the overall availability of our platform. We also leverage other third-party Internet-based (cloud) services such as rich-content storage, map-related services, ad serving and bulk processing. 

&#9679; Network Security . Computer viruses, malware, phishing attacks, denial-of-service and other attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized use of computer systems have become more prevalent in our industry, have occurred on our systems in the past and we expect them to occur periodically on our systems in the future. For this reason, our platform includes a host of encryption, antivirus, firewall and patch-management technologies designed to help protect and maintain the systems located at data centers as well as other systems and computers across our business. 

Consumer Protection Efforts 

Our success depends on our ability to maintain consumer trust in our solutions and in the quality and integrity of the user content and other information found on our platform. We dedicate significant resources to the goal of maintaining and enhancing the quality, authenticity and integrity of the reviews on our platform, primarily through the following methods: 

Automated Recommendation Software. We use proprietary software to analyze the relevance, reliability and utility of each review submitted to our platform. The software applies the same objective standards to each review based on a wide range of data associated with the review and reviewer, regardless of whether the business being reviewed advertises on Yelp. These objective standards include various measures of relevance, reliability and utility, such as the reviewer&#146;s type and level of activity with Yelp (which might correspond to the reviewer&#146;s reliability or suggest reviewer biases) and whether certain reviews originate from related Internet Protocol addresses (which might mean the reviews were submitted by the same person). The results of this analysis can change over time as the software factors in new information, which may result in reviews that were previously recommended becoming not recommended, and reviews that were previously not recommended being restored to recommended status. Reviews that the software deems to be the most useful and reliable are published directly on business listing pages, though neither we nor the software purport to establish whether or not any individual review is authentic. As of December 31, 2015, our software was recommending approximately 71% of the reviews submitted to our platform. Reviews that are not recommended are published on secondary pages and do not factor into a business&#146;s overall star rating. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 22% of the reviews submitted to our platform were not recommended but still accessible on our platform. 

Sting Operations. We routinely conduct sting operations to identify businesses and individuals who offer or receive cash, discounts or other benefits in exchange for reviews. For example, we may respond to advertisements offering to pay for reviews that are posted on Craigslist, Facebook and other platforms. We also receive and investigate tips from our users about potential paid reviews. If we identify or confirm any such issues through our investigations, we typically pursue one or more of the courses of action described below (each of which we may also employ on a stand-alone basis). 

Consumer Alerts Program. We issue consumer alert warnings on business listing pages from time to time when we encounter suspicious activity that we believe is indicative of attempts to deceive or mislead consumers. For example, we may issue a consumer alert if we encounter a business attempting to purchase favorable reviews, or if a large number of favorable reviews are submitted from the same Internet Protocol address. Consumer alerts generally remain in effect for 90 days, or longer if the deceptive practices continue. 

Coordination with Law Enforcement. We regularly cooperate with law enforcement and consumer protection agencies to investigate and identify businesses and individuals who may be engaged in false advertising or deceptive business practices relating to reviews. For example, in 2013, we assisted the New York Attorney General with &#147;Operation Clean Turf,&#148; an undercover investigation targeting review manipulation that resulted in 19 companies agreeing to pay more than $350,000 in fines to the State of New York. 

Legal Action. Our terms of service prohibit the buying and selling of reviews, as well as writing fake reviews. In egregious cases, we take legal action against businesses we believe to be engaged in deceptive practices based on these prohibitions. 

Removal of Reviews. We regularly remove reviews from our platform that we believe violate our terms of service, including, without limitation: fake or defamatory reviews; content that has been bought, sold or traded; threatening, harassing or lewd content, as well as hate speech and other displays of bigotry; and content that violates the rights of any third party or any applicable law. Users can access information about reviews that we have removed for a particular business by clicking on a link on the business&#146;s listing page. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 7% of the reviews submitted to our platform had been removed. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on federal, state, common law and international rights, as well as contractual restrictions, to protect our intellectual property. We control access to our proprietary technology and algorithms by entering into confidentiality and inventions assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, as well as confidentiality agreements with third parties. 

In addition to these contractual arrangements, we also rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, service marks and domain names to protect our intellectual property. We pursue the registration of our copyrights, trademarks, service marks and domain names in the United States and in certain locations internationally. Our registration efforts have focused on gaining protection of our trademarks for Yelp and the Yelp burst logo, among others. These marks are material to our business and essential to our brand identity as they enable others to easily identify us as the source of the services offered under these marks. While we are pursuing a number of patent applications, we do not currently have any issued patents, which may make it more difficult to defend certain of our intellectual property rights, particularly related to our core business. For example, the contractual restrictions and trade secrets that protect our proprietary technology and algorithms provide only a limited safeguard against infringement. 

Circumstances outside our control could pose a threat to our intellectual property rights. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in the United States or other countries in which we operate. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. Protecting our intellectual property rights is also costly and time consuming. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. 

Companies in the Internet, technology and media industries own large numbers of patents and other intellectual property rights, and frequently request license agreements or threaten to enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of such rights. From time to time, we receive notice letters from patent holders alleging that certain of our products and services infringe their patent rights. We are also currently subject to, and expect to face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors and non-practicing entities. As we face increasing competition and as our business grows, we will likely face more claims of infringement. 

Competition 

The market for information regarding local businesses and advertising is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. We compete for consumer traffic with traditional, offline local business guides and directories as well as online providers of local and web search. We also compete for a share of local businesses&#146; overall advertising budgets with traditional, offline media companies and other Internet marketing providers. Our competitors include the following types of businesses: 

&#9679; Offline. Competitors include offline media companies and service providers, many of which have existing relationships with local businesses. Services provided by competitors range from yellow pages listings to direct mail campaigns to advertising and listing services in local newspapers, magazines, television and radio. &#160; 

&#9679; Online. Competitors also include Internet search engines, such as Google and Bing, review and social media websites as well as various other online service providers. These include regional websites that may have strong positions in particular markets. 

Our competitors may enjoy competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, substantially greater market share, established marketing relationships with, and access to, large existing user bases and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. These companies may use these advantages to offer products similar to ours at a lower price, develop different products to compete with our current solutions and respond more quickly and effectively than we do to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. Certain competitors could also use strong or dominant positions in one or more markets to gain competitive advantage against us in markets in which we operate. 

We compete on the basis of a number of factors. We compete for consumer traffic on the basis of factors including: the reliability of our content; the breadth, depth and timeliness of information; and the strength and recognition of our brand. We compete for local businesses&#146; advertising budgets on the basis of factors including: the size of our consumer audience; the effectiveness of our advertising solutions; our pricing structure; and recognition of our brand. 

Government Regulation 

As a company conducting business on the Internet, we are subject to a variety of laws in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including laws regarding privacy, data retention, distribution of user-generated content, consumer protection and data protection, among others. For example: 

&#9679; Privacy. Because we receive, store and process personal information and other user data, including credit card information in certain cases, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws around the world regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other user data. &#160; 

&#9679; Liability for Third-Party Action. We rely on laws limiting the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users and other third parties. &#160; 

&#9679; Advertising. We are subject to a variety of laws, regulations and guidelines that regulate the way we distinguish paid search results and other types of advertising from unpaid search results. &#160; 

&#9679; Information Security and Data Protection. The laws in many jurisdictions require companies to implement specific information security controls to protect certain types of information. Likewise, many jurisdictions have laws in place requiring companies to notify users if there is a security breach that compromises certain categories of their information. 

Many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that harm our business. The application and interpretation of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. They may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. For example, regulatory frameworks for privacy issues are currently in flux worldwide, and are likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. Similarly, laws providing immunity to websites that publish user-generated content are currently being tested by a number of claims, including actions based on invasion of privacy and other torts, unfair competition, copyright and trademark infringement and other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched, the ads posted or the content provided by users. Changes in existing laws or regulations or their interpretations, as well as new legislation or regulations, could increase our administrative costs and make it more difficult for consumers to use our platform, resulting in less traffic and revenue. Such changes could also make it more difficult for us to provide effective advertising tools to businesses on our platform, resulting in fewer advertisers and less revenue. 

As our business grows and evolves and our products are used in a greater number of countries, we will also become subject to laws and regulations in additional jurisdictions. Foreign data protection, privacy and other laws and regulations can be more restrictive than those in the United States. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws may subject us to significant liabilities. 

Our Culture and Employees 

We take great pride in our company culture and consider it to be one of our competitive strengths. Our culture is at the foundation of our success, and it continues to help drive our business forward as a pivotal part of our everyday operations. It allows us to attract and retain a talented group of employees, create an energetic work environment and continue to innovate in a highly competitive market. As of December 31, 2015, we had 3,826 full-time employees globally. 

Our culture extends beyond our offices and into the local communities in which people use Yelp. Our community management team&#146;s responsibilities include supporting the sharing of experiences by consumers in the local markets that they serve and increasing brand awareness. We organize events several times a year to recognize our most important contributors, facilitating face-to-face interactions, building the Yelp brand and fostering the sense of true community in which we believe so strongly. We also engage with small businesses. For example, we established the Yelp Small Business Advisory Council as a way to interact with and get feedback from our core community of local business owners. We have also worked with the U.S. Small Business Administration and other partners to educate small business owners across the United States on best practices for online marketing. 

In addition, The Yelp Foundation, a non-profit organization established by our board of directors in November 2011, or the Foundation, directly supports consumers and local businesses in the communities in which we operate. In 2011, our board of directors approved the contribution and issuance to the Foundation of 520,000 shares of our common stock, of which the Foundation had sold 130,000 shares as of December 31, 2015. The Foundation uses the proceeds from the sale of its shares of our common stock to make grants to local non-profit organizations that are actively engaged in supporting community and small business growth. As of December 31, 2015, the Foundation held 390,000 shares of Class B common stock, representing less than 1% of our outstanding capital stock. 

Information About Segment and Geographic Revenue 

Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 

Seasonality 

Our business is affected both by cyclicality in business activity and by seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage and advertising spending. We believe our rapid growth has masked most of the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our revenue growth rate slows, we expect that the cyclicality and seasonality in our business may become more pronounced, causing our operating results to fluctuate. In particular, based on historical trends, we expect traffic numbers to be weakest in the fourth quarter of the year in connection with end of the year holidays. 

Corporate and Available Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware on September 3, 2004 under the name Yelp, Inc. We changed our name to Yelp! Inc. in late September 2004 and to Yelp Inc. in February 2012. Our principal executive offices are located at 140 New Montgomery Street, 9 th Floor, San Francisco, California 94105, and our telephone number is (415) 908-3801. Our website is located at www.yelp.com, and our investor relations website is located at www.yelp-ir.com. 

We file or furnish electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We make copies of these reports available free of charge through our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them with the SEC. 

We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including filings with the SEC, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for e-mail alerts and RSS feeds. 

Information contained on or accessible through our websites is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this Annual Report or any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

