 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

We are a leading company in developing and commercializing high temperature superconductor (&#147;HTS&#148;) materials and related technologies. Superconductivity is the unique ability to conduct electricity with little or no resistance when cooled to &#147;critical&#148; temperatures. HTS materials are a family of elements that demonstrate superconducting properties at temperatures significantly warmer than previous superconducting materials. Electric currents that flow through conventional conductors encounter resistance that requires power to overcome and generates heat. HTS materials can substantially improve the performance characteristics of electrical systems, reduce power loss, and lowering heat generation providing extremely high current carrying density and zero resistance to direct current. 

We were established in 1987 shortly after the discovery of HTS materials. Our stated objective was to develop products based on these materials for the commercial marketplace.

After analyzing the market opportunities available, we decided to develop products for the utility and telecommunications industries.

Our initial product was completed in 1998 and we began delivery to a number of wireless network providers. In the following 13 years, we continued to refine and improve the platform, with the primary focus on improving reliability, increasing performance and runtime, and most importantly, removing cost from the manufacturing process of the required subsystems. Our cost reducing efforts led to the invention of our proprietary, high-yield and high throughput HTS material deposition manufacturing process. 

In late 2010, we transitioned our research and development efforts to adapting our proprietary HTS material deposition techniques to the production of our HTS Conductus &#174; wire for next generation power applications, which is our primary opportunity to grow our future revenues. We continue to generate revenue from our legacy wireless communications products. This revenue has been declining and we expect this trend to continue until we completely abandon these products. 

Our Proprietary Technology 

Our development efforts over the last 28 years have yielded an extensive patent portfolio as well as critical trade secrets, unpatented technology and proprietary knowledge. We have an extensive patent portfolio in addition to critical trade secrets, unpatented technology and proprietary knowledge. Our current patents expire at various dates from 2016 to 2031. We enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, suppliers and consultants to protect our proprietary information. 

Our strategic plan is to utilize our core proprietary technology in superconductivity and leverage our proprietary manufacturing processes to build Conductus wire for use in electrical power devices. As discussed above, we are adapting our unique HTS material deposition techniques to produce our energy efficient, cost-effective and high performance Conductus wire technology for next generation power applications. We have identified several large initial target markets for superconducting wire including energy (wind turbines, cables, fault current limiters), medical (NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance and MRI (magnetic resonance imaging)), science (high performance magnets) and industrial (motors, generators) applications. We are working with leading industry device manufactures to complete qualification and acceptance testing of Conductus wire. We expect significant commercial production of Conductus wire in the last half of 2016. 

Our development efforts (including those described under &#147;Our Future Business&#148; below) can take a significant number of years to commercialize, and we must overcome significant technical barriers and deal with other significant risks, some of which are set out in our public filings, including in particular the &#147;Risk Factors&#148; included in Item 1A of this Report. 

&#160;

Our Future Business 

We have created several unique capabilities and HTS manufacturing systems related to our Conductus wire platform that we are seeking to produce by leveraging our leadership in superconducting technologies, extensive intellectual property and HTS manufacturing expertise.

HTS Wire Platform 

Our Conductus wire product development is focused on large markets where the advantages of HTS wire are recognized by the industry. Our initial product roadmap targets three important applications: superconducting high power transmission cable, superconducting fault current limiters (SFCL) and high field magnets. 

Superconducting High Power Transmission Cable: 

Superconducting high power transmission and distribution cable transmit 5 to 10 times the electrical current of traditional copper or aluminum cables with significantly improved efficiency. HTS power cable systems consist of the cable, which is comprised of 100&#146;s of strands of HTS wire wrapped around a copper core, and the cryogenic cooling system to maintain proper operating conditions. HTS power cables are particularly suited to high load areas such as the dense urban business districts of large cities, where purchases of easements and construction costs for traditional low capacity cables may be cost prohibitive. The primary application for HTS cables is medium voltage feeds to load pockets in dense urban areas. In these high demand zones the grid is often saturated with aging infrastructure. HTS technology brings a considerable amount of power to new locations where the construction of additional transmission to distribution substations, with major transformer assets, is not feasible. Another potential use of HTS power cable is to improve grid power transmission by connecting two existing substations. In dense urban environments many substations often reach capacity limits and require redundant transformer capacity to improve reliability HTS cables can tie these existing stations together, avoiding very costly transformer upgrades and construction costs. 

Superconducting Fault Current Limiter (SFCL): 

With power demand on the rise and new power generation sources being added, the grid has become overcrowded and vulnerable to catastrophic faults. Faults are abnormal flows of electrical current like a short circuit. As the grid is stressed, faults and power blackouts increase in frequency and severity. SFCLs act like powerful surge protectors, preventing harmful faults from taking down substation equipment by reducing the fault current to a safer level (20 &#150; 50% reduction) so that the existing switchgear can still protect the grid. Currently, electrical-utilities use massive 80kA circuit breakers, oversized transformers and fuses to prevent faults from damaging their equipment and protecting against surges. However, once a fault has occurred, standard circuit breakers suffer destructive failure and need to be replaced before service can be restored. In addition, Smart Grid and embedded alternative energy generation enhancements will increase the need for SCFLs. Grid operators face a major challenge in moving power safely and efficiently, from generators to consumers, through several stages of voltage transformation step downs and step ups. At each stage, valuable energy is lost in the form of waste heat. Moreover, while demands are continually rising, space for transformers and substations&#151;especially in dense urban areas&#151;is severely limited. Conventional oil-cooled transformers pose a fire and environmental hazard. Compact, efficient superconducting transformers, by contrast, are cooled by safe, abundant and environmentally benign liquid nitrogen. As an additional benefit, these actively-cooled devices will offer the capability of operating in overload, to twice the nameplate rating, without any loss of life to meet occasional utility peak load demands. 

Superconducting High Field magnets: 

There are a variety of applications that utilize superconducting magnets in order to capitalize on their unique ability to create extremely high magnetic fields. The NMR and MRI machines of today utilize such superconducting magnets for this very reason. Currently, high-field superconducting magnets are manufactured using commercially available superconducting wire such as niobium-titanium (NbTi) or niobium-tin (Nb3Sn). 

&#160;

NMR and MRI device manufacturers look towards advances in superconducting technologies to improve the overall performance of their systems by dramatically increasing the magnetic fields while reducing size. High demand for a robust, high performance and low cost superconducting wire has spurred rapid development of a next generation alternative. In the last 10 years, new second generation (2G) Rare Earth, Barium, Copper Oxide (ReBCO) superconducting materials have been proven to drastically increase magnetic field strengths, especially at low temperatures. These advanced ReBCO based superconductors now provide an excellent alternative to NbTi and Nb3Sn based materials. 

Other Assets and Investments 

In September 2014, STI and Robinson Research Institute entered a strategic agreement to jointly engage end customers and partners in the building of superconductor products utilizing our Conductus &#174; superconducting wire and Robinson Research Institute&#146;s superconducting device technology. The Robinson Research Institute, based at Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand, has unique capabilities in the production of HTS Roebel cable used in superconducting machines and magnets, and in the development of HTS MRI and HTS transformers. The Robinson Research Institute has been a valuable ally as we prepare for the commercial launch of Conductus wire; Robinson&#146;s performance characterization expertise and applications knowledge are truly impressive. As we move to full production, we are implementing a comprehensive plan to supply Conductus wire and support global leaders in the commercialization of superconducting devices. Robinson is an expert in the development of innovative superconducting products. Jointly, we have identified initial projects including applications such as rotating machines, transformers, scientific magnets and MRI systems. Additionally, Robinson and its partners have a strong focus on Asia and we believe our agreement will help us expand our reach into that fast-growing market. Working alongside many industry leaders, the Robinson Research Institute and its partners have built superconducting devices for the energy industry, recently completing a transformer for use in the electrical grid. In the healthcare market, Robinson has focused on applications of MRI systems where HTS wire gives a competitive advantage. 

In July 2012, we contributed 14 issued and pending patents regarding our innovative Reconfigurable Resonance&#153; (RcR) technology in exchange for a minority investment in Resonant LLC. As of December 31, 2013 our interest in Resonant and the net value of the assets contributed, estimated to approximate fair value, was $185,000. In late September 2014 we entered into a private transaction to sell this minority interest to various buyers for gross proceeds to us of $3.6 million, and net proceeds to us of $3.3 million after offering expenses. 

In 2007, we formed a joint venture with Hunchun BaoLi Communication Co. Ltd. (&#147;BAOLI&#148;) to manufacture and sell our SuperLink interference elimination solution in China. We use the equity method of accounting for our 45 percent joint venture interest. The joint venture agreement specified our joint venture partner to supply the capital and local expertise, and for us to provide a license of certain technology and supply key parts for manufacturing. Since 2007, there has been no significant progress to manufacture and sell our SuperLink interference elimination solution in China and the parties have not completed their contributions to the joint venture within the two year period specified by the agreement and Chinese law. We see our primary opportunity to grow future revenues with the production of our HTS Conductus &#174; wire, and do not expect this joint venture to be a significant part of future revenues. 

Licenses 

We grant licenses for our technology to other companies. We have granted licenses to, among others, (1) Bruker for Nuclear Magnetic Resonance application, (2) General Dynamics for government applications, (3) Star Cryoelectronics for Superconducting Quantum Interference Device applications and (4) Theva for network infrastructure wireless electronic devices. 

Government Contracts 

We did not generate revenues from government contracts in the last three years. 

&#160;

Manufacturing 

Our manufacturing process involves the operation of sophisticated production equipment and material handling by production technicians. We purchase inventory components and manufacture inventory based on existing customer purchase requests, and to a lesser extent, on sales forecasts. Our primary facility is our advanced manufacturing center in Austin, Texas. This Texas facility addresses our growth expectations for our superconducting wire initiative. The opening of this facility coincided with the delivery of our first superconducting wire production equipment in early 2012. Sales of our Conductus wire are expected to increase as we reach production scale in the second half of 2016 and beyond. We currently assemble and test our wireless communications products at our facilities in Santa Barbara, California. 

A number of components used in our products are available from only a limited number of outside suppliers due to unique designs, as well as certain quality and performance requirements. We do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with any of these suppliers, do not maintain an extensive inventory of parts or components and customarily purchase sole or limited source parts and components pursuant to purchase orders. Our reliance on sole or limited source suppliers involves certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and some of which are set out in our public filings, including in particular the &#147;Risk Factors&#148; included in Item 1A of this Report. 

Marketing and Sales 

We utilize a direct selling model due to the concentrated customer base for superconducting wire. 

Competition 

We face competition in various aspects of our technology and product development. Our products compete on the basis of performance, functionality, reliability, pricing, quality and compliance with industry standards. Our primary competitors are American Superconductor (AMSC), SuperPower (Furukawa), SuNam, Fujikura, Sumitomo and THEVA, among others.

Research and Development 

Our 2013 through 2015 research and development activities were focused entirely on developing our Conductus wire product. We spent a total of $4.1 million for 2015, and $6.0 million and $6.1 million for 2014 and 2013, respectively, on research and development. 

Our Proprietary Technology 

We have an extensive patent portfolio, in addition to critical trade secrets, unpatented technology and proprietary knowledge. Our current patents expire at various dates from 2016 to 2031. We enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, suppliers and consultants to protect our proprietary information. 

Environmental Issues 

We use certain hazardous materials in our research, development and manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to stringent federal, state and local regulations governing the storage, use and disposal of such materials. Current or future laws and regulations could require substantial expenditures for preventative or remedial action, reduction of chemical exposure, waste treatment or disposal. Although we believe that our safety procedures for the handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, there is always the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. To date, we have not incurred substantial expenditures for preventive action with respect to hazardous materials or for remedial action with respect to any hazardous materials accident. However, the use and disposal of hazardous 

&#160;

materials involves the risk that we could incur substantial expenditures for such preventive or remedial actions. If such an accident were to occur, we could be held liable for resulting damages. The liability in the event of an accident or the costs of such remedial actions could exceed our resources or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

Corporate Information 

Our facilities and principal executive offices are located at 9101 Wall Street, Suite 1300, Austin, Texas 78754. Our telephone number is (512) 334-8900. We were incorporated in Delaware on May 11, 1987. Additional information about us is available on our website at www.suptech.com. The information on our web site is not incorporated herein by reference. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had a total of 25 full time employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we believe that our employee relations are good. 

Backlog 

Our commercial backlog consists of accepted product purchase orders with scheduled delivery dates during the next twelve months. We had commercial backlog of $58,000 at December 31, 2015, compared to $63,000 at December 31, 2014. 

&#160;

