 Item 1. Business 

General 

Banc of California, Inc., a financial holding company regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, is focused on empowering California's diverse private business, entrepreneurs and communities. It is the parent company of Banc of California, National Association, a California based bank that is regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the Bank), and The Palisades Group, LLC, an SEC-registered investment advisor (The Palisades Group). The Bank has one wholly owned subsidiary, CS Financial, Inc. (CS Financial), a mortgage banking firm. Banc of California, Inc. was incorporated under Maryland law in March 2002, and was formerly known as "First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc.", and changed its name to &#8220;Banc of California, Inc.&#8221; in July 2013. Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to &#8220;Banc of California, Inc.&#8221; refer to Banc of California, Inc. excluding its consolidated subsidiaries and all references to the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221; refer to Banc of California, Inc. including its consolidated subsidiaries. 

On November 1, 2010, the Company was recapitalized by outside investors with the goal of creating California's Bank: a full-service, bank focused on California and empowering the dreams of California&#8217;s diverse private businesses, entrepreneurs and communities. 

Since that time, the Company has grown from less than $1 billion in total assets to more than $8 billion in total assets at December 31, 2015. This has resulted from both strong organic growth and opportunistic acquisitions. Over the previous five years, the Company completed seven acquisitions: three whole bank transactions (Gateway Bancorp, Beach Business Bank, and The Private Bank of California), the acquisitions of The Palisades Group, CS Financial, and Renovation Ready, and the acquisition of California branch locations from Banco Popular North America. 

The Bank is headquartered in Irvine, California and at December 31, 2015 , the Bank had 90 California banking locations including 35 &#32;full service branches in San Diego, Orange, Santa Barbara, and Los Angeles Counties. 

The Company&#8217;s vision is to be California&#8217;s Bank. It pursues this vision through its mission of empowering California&#8217;s Diverse Private Businesses, Entrepreneurs and Communities. The Company focuses on three core values: operational excellence, superior analytics and entrepreneurialism. 

Banc of California&#8217; mission and vision guide its strategic plan. The Company is focused on California and core banking products and services designed to cater to the unique needs of California's diverse private businesses, entrepreneurs and communities. During 2015, the Bank was awarded an Outstanding rating for Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) activities by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). As of December 31, 2015, we were the largest independent public bank in California with an Outstanding CRA rating. 

As part of delivering on our value proposition to clients, we offer a variety of financial products and services designed around our target client in order to serve all of their banking and financial needs. This includes both deposit products offered through the Company's multiple channels that include retail banking, business banking and private banking, as well as lending products including residential mortgage lending, commercial lending, commercial real estate lending, multifamily lending, and specialty lending including Small Business Administration (SBA) lending, commercial specialty finance and construction lending. 

The Bank&#8217;s deposit and banking product and service offerings include checking, savings, money market, certificates of deposit, retirement accounts as well as online, telephone, and mobile banking, automated bill payment, cash and treasury management, master demand accounts, foreign exchange, interest rate swaps, trust services, card payment services, remote and mobile deposit capture, ACH origination, wire transfer, direct deposit, and safe deposit boxes. Bank customers also have the ability to access their accounts through a nationwide network of over 55,000 surcharge-free ATMs. 

The Bank&#8217;s lending activities are focused on providing financing to California&#8217;s diverse private businesses, entrepreneurs, homeowners and are often secured against California commercial and residential real estate. In 2015, the Bank closed over $7 billion in new loans. 

The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 18500 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 1100, Irvine, California, and its telephone number is (855) 361-2262. 

The reports, proxy statements and other information that Banc of California, Inc. files with the SEC, as well as news releases, are available free of charge through the Company&#8217;s Internet site at http://www.bancofcal.com. This information can be found on the &#8220;News and Events&#8221; or &#8220;Investor relations&#8221; pages of our Internet site. Annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on 

Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed and furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act are available as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed or furnished to the SEC. Reference to the Company&#8217;s Internet address is not intended to incorporate any of the information contained on our Internet site into this document. 

Operating Segments 

Our operations are managed based on the operating results of four reportable segments: Commercial Banking, Mortgage Banking, Financial Advisory, and Corporate/Other. Our chief operating decision-maker uses financial information from our four reportable segments to make operating and strategic decisions. For financial information about our reportable segments, see Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

Business Units 

The Commercial Banking segment includes ten business units: Retail Banking, Commercial Banking, Private Banking, Financial Institutions Banking, Residential Portfolio Lending, Commercial Real Estate and Multifamily Lending, Construction and Rehab Lending, SBA Lending, Commercial Specialty Finance, and Warehouse Lending. 

&#8226; 

Retail Banking. Retail Banking includes the Company&#8217;s 35 branch locations across Southern California and provides distribution points for gathering core deposit and lending relationships. Our retail branch locations are concentrated in Southern California's centers of economic activity and growth. 

&#8226; 

Commercial Banking. Commercial Banking serves the needs of entrepreneurs and business owners through proactive advice, dedicated service and a full suite of deposit, treasury management and lending products and services. Commercial Banking is bifurcated into two teams, middle market Commercial Banking and Business Banking. Middle market Commercial Banking focuses on companies with annual revenues over $25 million, which generally have larger lending needs and more complex deposit and treasury management needs. Business Banking, which was launched during the fourth quarter of 2015, focuses on companies with annual revenues of less than $25 million and locally owned, growth oriented, generally lower lending needs, but represents an attractive deposit gathering opportunity. 

&#8226; 

Private Banking. Private Banking caters primarily to high net worth individuals, entrepreneurs, and business owners, and their respective business managers and fiduciaries. The Private Banking unit was formed through the Company&#8217;s acquisition of The Private Bank of California in July 2013. Since the time of acquisition, deposit balances in the Private Banking unit have more than doubled to $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2015. The Company has announced that it plans to open two new Private Banking offices in Calabasas and Woodland Hills, California during 2016. 

&#8226; 

Financial Institutions Banking. Financial Institutions Banking provides specialized deposit products and services to registered investment advisors, broker dealers, family offices, hedge funds, private equity funds and other financial services companies. Its products include a variety of escrow products, trust services, special use accounts and standard business accounts. Additionally, it offers lending products, which include securities-backed credit facilities, insurance-backed loans, alternative asset-backed lines of credit and term loans, and leverage to hedge funds and private equity funds. 

&#8226; 

Residential Portfolio Lending. Residential Portfolio Lending provides jumbo residential mortgage loans for California&#8217;s entrepreneurs and homeowners. Loan programs are designed to meet the needs of Private Banking clients, business owners and entrepreneurs. Lending products offered are primarily jumbo balance, hybrid adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) loans and are originated through partnerships with Private Banking, Retail Banking and the Company&#8217;s mortgage banking division, Banc Home Loans. 

&#8226; 

Commercial Real Estate and Multifamily Lending. Commercial Real Estate and Multifamily Lending provides lending products catering to California&#8217;s entrepreneurial real estate investors. Its lending activities are focused on income-producing commercial real estate and multifamily properties for the California private entrepreneur who has experience in owning, managing and investing in commercial and multifamily properties. 

&#8226; 

Construction and Rehabilitation Lending. Construction and Rehabilitation Lending provides construction and rehabilitation loans to California&#8217;s entrepreneurs and business owners. The Construction and Rehabilitation Lending unit was formed through the Company&#8217;s acquisition of RenovationReady in January 2014. It provides short term and permanent loan programs to builders, investors and homeowners to construct or renovate residential or commercial real estate. In addition to portfolio loan products, through Construction and Rehabilitation Lending, the Company offers Federal Housing Administration (FHA) 203(k) loans and Fannie Mae construction to permanent loans. 

&#8226; 

SBA Lending. SBA Lending provides highly targeted SBA lending expertise, programs and advice to entrepreneurs seeking growth capital for acquisitions, working capital, or other capital investments. Although the Company offers all SBA lending programs, the unit&#8217;s primary goal is to be the leader in SBA 7(a) financing. 

&#8226; 

Commercial Specialty Finance. Commercial Specialty Finance, launched in the third quarter of 2012, offers equipment financing, leasing and working capital solutions to support the growth of small and medium-sized businesses. Additionally, the unit offers a small commercial lending loan product, targeted at small businesses with credit needs less than $1 million, which is distributed through the Retail Banking locations. 

&#8226; 

Warehouse Lending. Warehouse Lending provides warehouse lines of credit to mortgage and commercial multifamily lenders. 

The Mortgage Banking segment is comprised entirely of the Company&#8217;s mortgage banking business, operated under the trade name of Banc Home Loans, which originates primarily agency, government, and conforming mortgage loans. 

The Financial Advisory segment is comprised entirely of The Palisades Group, which provides services related to the purchase, sale and management of single-family residential mortgage loans. 

Recent Transactions 

Branch Sales 

On September 25, 2015, the Bank completed a branch sale transaction to Americas United Bank, a California banking corporation (AUB). In the transaction, the Bank sold two &#32;branches and certain related assets and deposit liabilities to AUB. The transaction included a transfer of $46.9 million &#32;of deposits to AUB. Additionally, as part of the transaction, the leases related to both locations were assumed by AUB. The Company recognized a gain of $163 thousand &#32;from this transaction, which is included in Other Income in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

The Bank also sold certain loans of $40.2 million &#32;to AUB as part of the transaction. The Company recognized a gain of $644 thousand &#32;from the sale of these loans, which is included in Net Gain on Sale of Loans in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

For additional information regarding this transaction, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

Banco Popular's California Network Acquisition 

Effective November 8, 2014, the Bank acquired 20 &#32;full-service branches from Banco Popular North America (BPNA) in the Southern California banking market (the BPNA Branch Acquisition). The purchase price, net of deposit premiums received of $3.9 million , was $24.0 million . At the time of its completion, the transaction added $1.07 billion &#32;in loans and $1.08 billion &#32;in deposits to the Bank. 

The Company recorded core deposit intangible assets of $15.8 million &#32;as part of the BPNA Branch Acquisition. Core deposit intangible assets were valued using a net cost savings method and was calculated as the present value of the estimated net cost savings attributable to the core deposit base over the expected remaining life of the deposits. The cost savings derived from the core deposit balance were calculated as the difference between the prevailing alternative cost of funds and the estimated cost of the core deposits. The core deposit intangible is being amortized over its estimated useful life of ten years &#32;using the sum of years-digits amortization methodology. 

The fair value of loans acquired from BPNA was estimated by utilizing a methodology wherein similar loans were aggregated into pools. Cash flows for each pool were determined by estimating future credit losses and the rate of prepayments. Projected monthly cash flows were then discounted to present value based on a market rate for similar loans. There was no carryover of BPNA's allowance for loan losses associated with the acquired loans as the loans were initially recorded at fair value. 

The fair value of savings and transaction deposit accounts acquired from BPNA was assumed to approximate the carrying value as these accounts have no stated maturity and are payable on demand. Certificates of deposit were valued by projecting the expected cash flows based on the remaining contractual terms of the certificates of deposit. These cash flows were discounted based on market rates for certificates of deposit with corresponding remaining maturities. 

Direct costs related to the BPNA Branch Acquisition were expensed as incurred and amounted to $4.3 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2014. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company finalized its purchase accounting for the BPNA Branch Acquisition and recorded the measurement period adjustments. The measurement period adjustments included recording Goodwill of $7.7 million , an additional discount of $7.4 million &#32;to Loans and Leases Receivable, and an additional premium of $292 thousand &#32;to Deposits. Recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, the cumulative life to date measurement period adjustments related to the loan discount and deposit premium amortization were a $33 thousand &#32;decrease in Interest and Dividend Income on Loans and a $110 thousand &#32;decrease in Interest Expense on Deposits, respectively. 

For additional information regarding this transaction, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

RenovationReady&#174; Acquisition 

Effective January 31, 2014, the Company acquired certain assets, including service contracts and intellectual property, of RenovationReady, a provider of specialized loan services to financial institutions and mortgage bankers that originate agency eligible residential renovation and construction loan products. 

The RenovationReady acquisition was accounted for under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) guidance for business combinations. The purchased identifiable intangible assets and assumed liabilities were recorded at their estimated fair values as of January 31, 2014. The Company recorded $2.2 million &#32;of goodwill and $761 thousand &#32;of other intangible assets. The other intangible assets are related to a customer relationship intangible. 

For additional information regarding this transaction, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

Lending Activities 

General 

The Company offers a number of commercial and consumer loan products, including commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, multi-family loans, SBA guaranteed business loans, construction and renovation loans, lease financing, single family residential (SFR) mortgage loans, warehouse loans, asset-, insurance- or security-backed loans, home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), consumer and business lines of credit, and other consumer loans. 

Legal lending limits are calculated in conformance with OCC regulations, which prohibit a national bank from lending to any one individual or entity or its related interests on any amount that exceeds 15 percent of the bank&#8217;s capital and surplus, plus an additional 10 percent of the bank&#8217;s capital and surplus, if the amount that exceeds the bank&#8217;s 15 percent general limit is fully secured by readily marketable collateral. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank&#8217;s authorized legal lending limits for loans to one borrower were $114.5 million &#32;for unsecured loans plus an additional $76.4 million &#32;for specific secured loans. 

At December 31, 2015 , the Company's loans held-for-sale and total loans and leases held-for-investment were $668.8 million &#32;or 8.1 percent &#32;of total assets and $5.18 billion &#32;or 63.0 percent &#32;of total assets, respectively, compared to $1.19 billion &#32;or 19.9 percent &#32;of total assets $3.95 billion &#32;or 66.1 percent &#32;of total assets at December 31, 2014 , respectively. For additional information concerning changes in loans and leases, see "Loans Held-for-Sale" and "Loans and Leases Receivable" in Item 7. 

Governance 

The Company conducts its lending activities under a system of risk governance controls. Key elements of our risk governance structure include our risk appetite framework and risk appetite statement. The risk appetite framework adopted by the Company and the Bank has been developed in conjunction with the Company&#8217;s strategic and capital plans. The strategic and capital plans articulate the Board-approved balance sheet and loan concentration targets and the appropriate level of capital to properly manage our risks. 

The risk appetite framework provides the overall approach, including policies, processes, controls, and systems through which the risk appetite is established, communicated, and monitored. The risk appetite framework utilizes a risk assessment process to identify inherent risks across the Company, gauges the effectiveness of our internal controls, and establishes tolerances for residual risk in each of the regulatory risk categories: credit, market (interest rate and price risks), liquidity, operational, compliance, strategic, and reputational. Each risk category is assigned risk ratings with a target overall residual risk rating for the organization. The risk appetite framework includes a risk appetite statement, risk limits, and an outline of roles and responsibilities of those overseeing the implementation and monitoring of the framework. The risk appetite statement is an expression of the maximum level of residual risk that we are prepared to accept in order to achieve our business objectives. Defining, communicating, and monitoring risk appetite are fundamental to a safe and sound control environment and a risk-focused culture. The Board of Directors establishes the Company&#8217;s strategic objectives and approves the Company&#8217;s risk appetite statement, which is developed in collaboration with the chief executive officer, chief risk officer, general counsel, chief 

financial officer, and other executive leadership. The executive team translates the Board-approved strategic objectives and the risk appetite statement into targets and constraints for business lines and legal entities to follow. 

The risk appetite framework is supported by an enterprise risk management program. Enterprise risk management at the Company and Bank integrates all risk efforts under one common framework. Key elements of enterprise risk management that are intended to support prudent lending activities include: 

&#8226; 

Policies&#8212;The Bank's loan policy articulates the credit culture of our lending business and provides clarity around encouraged and discouraged lending activities. Additional policies cover key business segments of the portfolio (for example the Bank's Commercial Real Estate Policy) and other important aspects supporting the Bank's lending activities (for example policies relating to appraisals, risk ratings, fair lending, etc). 

&#8226; 

Credit Approval Authorities&#8212;All material credit exposures of the Bank are approved by a credit risk management group that is independent of the business units. Above this threshold, credit approvals are made by the chief credit officer or an executive management credit committee of the Bank. The joint enterprise risk committee of the Company's Board of Directors and the Bank's Board of Directors reviews/approves material loan pool purchases/divestitures and any other transactions as appropriate. 

&#8226; 

Concentration Risk Management Policy&#8212;To mitigate and manage the risk within the Bank's loan portfolio, the Board of Directors of the Bank adopted a concentration risk management policy, pursuant to which it expects to review and revise concentration risk to tolerance thresholds at least annually and otherwise from time to time as appropriate. It is anticipated that these concentration risk to tolerance thresholds may change at any time when the Board of Directors is considering material strategic initiatives such as acquisitions, new product launches and terminations of products or other factors as the Board of Directors believes appropriate. The Company has developed procedures relating to the appropriate actions to be taken should management seek to increase the concentration guidelines or exceed the guideline maximum based on various factors. Concentration risk to tolerance thresholds are not meant to be restrictive limits, but are intended to aid management and the Board to ensure that the Bank&#8217;s loan concentrations are consistent with the Board&#8217;s risk appetite. 

&#8226; 

Stress Testing&#8211;The Bank has developed a stress test policy and stress testing methodology as a tool to evaluate our loan portfolio, capital levels and strategic plan with the objective of ensuring that our loan portfolio and balance sheet concentrations are consistent with the Board-approved risk appetite and strategic and capital plans. 

&#8226; 

Loan Portfolio Management&#8212;The Bank has an internal asset review committee that formally reviews the loan portfolio on a regular basis. Risk rating trends, loan portfolio performance, including delinquency status, and the resolution of problem assets are reviewed and evaluated. 

&#8226; 

Commercial Real Estate Loan Pricing, Multi-Family Loan Pricing and Residential Loan Pricing&#8212;Regular discussions occur between the areas of executive management, Treasury, Capital Markets, Credit and Risk Management and the business units with regard to the pricing of our loan products. These groups meet to ensure that the Bank is pricing its products appropriately to meet our strategic and capital plans while ensuring an appropriate return for stockholders. 

Commercial and Industrial Loans 

Commercial and industrial loans are made to finance operations, provide working capital, or to finance the purchase of assets, equipment or inventory. A borrower&#8217;s cash flow from operations is generally the primary source of repayment. Accordingly, our policies provide specific guidelines regarding debt coverage and other financial ratios. Commercial and industrial loans include lines of credit and commercial term loans. Lines of credit are extended to businesses or individuals based on the financial strength and integrity of the borrower and guarantor(s) and generally are collateralized by short-term assets such as accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or real estate and have a maturity of one year or less. Commercial term loans are typically made to finance the acquisition of fixed assets or refinance short-term debt originally used to purchase fixed assets. Commercial term loans generally have terms of one to five years. They may be collateralized by the asset being acquired or other available assets. 

Commercial and industrial loans include short-term secured and unsecured business and commercial loans with maturities typically ranging up to 5 years (up to 10 years if a SBA loan), accounts receivable financing typically for 1-5 years (up to 10 years if a SBA loan), and equipment leases up to 6 years. The interest rates on these loans generally are adjustable and usually are indexed to The Wall Street Journal&#8217;s prime rate or London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) and will vary based on market conditions and be commensurate to the credit risk. Where it can be negotiated, loans are written with a floor rate of interest. Generally, lines of credit are granted for no more than a 12-month period. 

Commercial and industrial loans, including accounts receivable and inventory financing, generally are made to businesses that have been in operation for at least 5 years (or less if a SBA loan), including start-ups. To qualify for such loans, prospective borrowers generally must have a conservative debt-to-net worth ratio, operating cash flow sufficient to demonstrate the ability to pay obligations as they become due, and good payment histories as evidenced by credit reports. We attempt to control our risk by generally requiring loan-to-value (LTV) ratios of not more than 80 percent and by closely and regularly monitoring the amount and value of the collateral in order to maintain that ratio. 

The Company&#8217;s commercial and industrial business lending policy includes credit file documentation and analysis of the borrower&#8217;s background, capacity to repay the loan, the adequacy of the borrower&#8217;s capital and collateral as well as an evaluation of other conditions affecting the borrower. Analysis of the borrower&#8217;s past, present and future cash flows is also an important aspect of our credit analysis. In order to mitigate the risk of borrower default, we generally require collateral to support the credit or, in the case of loans made to businesses, personal guarantees from their owners, or both. In addition, all such loans must have well-defined primary and secondary sources of repayment. 

Commercial and industrial loans are typically made on the basis of the borrower&#8217;s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower&#8217;s business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial and industrial loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself (which, in turn, is often dependent in part upon general economic conditions). The Company&#8217;s commercial business loans are usually, but not always, secured by business assets. However, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. See &#8220;Loans and Leases Receivables - Asset Quality&#8221; in Item 7. 

Commercial and industrial loan growth also assists in the growth of our deposits because many commercial loan borrowers establish noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing demand deposit accounts and banking services relationships with us. Those deposit accounts help us to reduce our overall cost of funds and those banking service relationships provide us with a source of non-interest income. 

Commercial Real Estate Lending and Multi-Family Real Estate Lending 

Commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans are secured primarily by multi-family dwellings, industrial/warehouse buildings, anchored and non-anchored retail centers, office buildings and hospitality properties, on a limited basis, primarily located in the Company&#8217;s market area, and throughout the West Coast. 

The Company&#8217;s loans secured by multi-family and commercial real estate are originated with either a fixed or adjustable interest rate. The interest rate on adjustable-rate loans is based on a variety of indices, generally determined through negotiation with the borrower. LTV ratios on these loans typically do not exceed 75 percent of the appraised value of the property securing the loan. These loans typically require monthly payments, may contain balloon payments and generally have maximum maturities of 30 years. 

Loans secured by multi-family and commercial real estate are underwritten based on the income producing potential of the property and the financial strength of the borrower/guarantor. The net operating income, which is the income derived from the operation of the property less all operating expenses, must be sufficient to cover the payments related to the outstanding debt. The Company generally requires an assignment of rents or leases in order to be assured that the cash flow from the project will be used to repay the debt. Appraisals on properties securing multi-family and commercial real estate loans are performed by independent state licensed fee appraisers approved by management. See &#8220;Loans and Leases Receivable - Loan and Lease Originations, Purchases, Sales and Repayments&#8221; in Item 7. The Company may require the borrower to maintain a tax or insurance escrow account for loans secured by multi-family and commercial real estate. In order to monitor the adequacy of cash flows on income-producing properties, the borrower is generally required to provide periodic financial information. 

Because payments on loans secured by multi-family and commercial real estate properties are often dependent on the successful operation or management of the properties, repayment of these loans may be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, or if leases are not obtained or renewed, the borrower&#8217;s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. See &#8220;Loans and Leases Receivable - Asset Quality&#8221; in Item 7. 

Small Business Administration Loans 

The Company provides numerous SBA loan products through the Bank. The Bank&#8217;s Preferred Lender Program (PLP) status generally gives it the authority to make the final credit decision and have most servicing and liquidation authority. 

The Company provides the following SBA products: 

&#8226; 

7(a)&#8212;These loans provide the Bank with a guarantee from the SBA of the United States Government for up to 85 percent of the loan amount for loans up to $150,000 and 75 percent of the loan amount for loans of more than $150,000, with a maximum loan amount of $5 million. These are term loans that can be used for a variety of purposes including expansion, renovation, new construction, and equipment purchases. Depending on collateral, these loans can have terms ranging from 7 to 25 years. The guaranteed portion of these loans is often sold into the secondary market. 

&#8226; 

Cap Lines&#8212;In general, these lines are guaranteed up to 75 percent and are typically used for working capital purposes and secured by accounts receivable and/or inventory. These lines are generally allowed in amounts up to $5 million and can be issued with maturities of up to 5 years. 

&#8226; 

504 Loans&#8212;These are real estate loans in which the lender can advance up to 90 percent of the purchase price; retain 50 percent as a first trust deed; and, have a Certified Development Company (CDC) retain the 2nd position for 40 percent of the total cost. CDCs are licensed by the SBA. Required equity of the borrower is 10 percent. Terms of the first trust deed are typically similar to market rates for conventional real estate loans, while the CDC establishes rates and terms for the second trust deed loan. 

&#8226; 

SBA Express&#8212;These loans offer a 50 percent guaranty by the SBA and are made in amounts up to a maximum of $350,000 (although the SBA temporarily increased the maximum limit to $1 million on October 8, 2010 for a period of one year). These loans are typically revolving lines and have maturities of up to 7 years. 

SBA lending is subject to federal legislation that can affect the availability and funding of the program. This dependence on legislative funding might cause future limitations and uncertainties with regard to the continued funding of such programs, which could potentially have an adverse financial impact on our business. 

The Company&#8217;s portfolio of SBA loans is subject to certain risks, including, but not limited to: (i) the effects of economic downturns on the Southern California economy; (ii) interest rate increases; (iii) deterioration of the value of the underlying collateral; and (iv) deterioration of a borrower&#8217;s or guarantor's financial capabilities. We attempt to reduce the exposure of these risks through: (i) reviewing each loan request and renewal individually; (ii) adhering to written loan policies; (iii) adhering to SBA policies and regulations; (iv) obtaining independent third party appraisals; and (v) obtaining external independent credit reviews. SBA loans normally require monthly installment payments of principal and interest and therefore are continually monitored for past due conditions. In general, the Company receives and reviews financial statements and other documents of borrowing customers on an ongoing basis during the term of the relationship and responds to any deterioration identified. 

Commercial Lease Financing 

Commercial equipment leasing and financing was introduced as a product in the third quarter of 2012 to meet the needs of small and medium-sized businesses for growth through investments in commercial equipment. The Company provides full payout capital leases and equipment finance agreements for essential use equipment to small and medium sized business nationally. The terms are 1 to 7 years in length and generally provide more flexibility to meet the equipment obsolescence needs of small and medium sized businesses than traditional business loans. 

Commercial equipment leases are secured by the business assets being financed. The Company also obtains a commercial guaranty of the business and generally a personal guaranty of the owner(s) of the business. 

Single Family Residential Mortgage Loans 

The Company originates mortgage loans secured by a first deed of trust on single family residences throughout California and the United States. The Company offers a variety of loan products catering to the specific needs of borrowers, including fixed rate and adjustable rate mortgages with either 30-year or 15-year terms. 

The Company&#8217;s residential lending activity includes both a direct-to-consumer retail residential lending business and a wholesale and correspondent mortgage business. 

In the retail business, Company loan officers are located either in our call center in Irvine, Bank branches in San Diego, Orange, Santa Barbara and Los Angeles Counties, or loan production offices throughout California and in Arizona, Oregon, Virginia, Indiana, Colorado, Idaho, and Nevada, and originate mortgage loans directly to consumers. The wholesale mortgage business originates residential mortgage loans submitted to the Company by outside mortgage brokers for underwriting and funding. The correspondent mortgage business acquires residential mortgage loans originated by outside mortgage bankers. The Company does not originate loans defined as high cost by state or federal regulators. 

The Company generally underwrites SFR mortgage loans based on the applicant&#8217;s income and credit history and the appraised value of the subject property. Properties securing our SFR mortgage loans are appraised by independent fee appraisers approved by management. The Company requires borrowers to obtain title insurance, hazard insurance, and flood insurance, if necessary. 

A majority of residential mortgage loans originated by the Company are made to finance the purchase or the refinance of existing loans on owner-occupied homes with a smaller percentage used to finance non-owner occupied homes. 

Conforming SFR Mortgage Loans: &#32;The Company offers conventional mortgages eligible for sale to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, government insured Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and Veteran Affairs (VA) mortgages eligible for sale to Ginnie Mae mainly through its Mortgage Banking segment. These loans are originated to sell into the secondary market on a whole loan basis. 

Generally, the Company requires private mortgage insurance for conventional loans with a loan to value greater than 80 percent of the lesser of the appraised value or purchase price, and FHA insurance or a VA guaranty for government loans. 

Non-Conforming SFR Mortgage Loans: The Company also offers non-conforming loans where the loan amount exceeds Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac limits, or the guidelines do not conform to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac guidelines. A majority of the Company&#8217;s originations for non-conforming SFR mortgage loans are collateralized by real properties located in Southern California. 

The Company currently originates non-conforming SFR mortgage loans on either a fixed or an adjustable rate basis, as consumer demand and the Bank&#8217;s risk management dictates. The Company&#8217;s pricing strategy for SFR mortgage loans includes setting interest rates that are competitive with other local financial institutions and mortgage originators. 

The Company currently originates SFR mortgage loans on either a fixed or an adjustable rate basis, as consumer demand and the Bank&#8217;s risk management dictates. The Company&#8217;s pricing strategy for SFR mortgage loans includes setting interest rates that are competitive with other local financial institutions and mortgage originators. 

ARM loans are offered with flexible initial repricing dates, ranging from one year to ten years, and periodic repricing dates through the life of the loan. The Company uses a variety of indices to reprice ARM loans. The Company originates non-conforming loans for sale in the secondary market, as well as for investment, depending upon market conditions and the Company's investment strategies. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , the Company originated $523.8 million &#32;of held-for-investment SFR ARM loans with terms up to 30 years . Of total SFR mortgage loans at December 31, 2015 , $269.7 million , or 12.0 percent , were fixed rate, and $1.99 billion , or 88.0 percent , were adjustable rate. Of total SFR mortgage loans at December 31, 2014 , $272.6 million , or 23.3 percent , were fixed rate, and $899.1 million , or 76.7 percent , were adjustable rate. 

The Company also offers interest only loans, which have payment features that allow interest only payments during the first five, seven, or ten years during which time the interest rate is fixed before converting to fully amortizing payments. Following the expiration of the fixed interest rate, the interest rate and payment begins to adjust on an annual basis, with fully amortizing payments that include principal and interest calculated over the remaining term of the loan. The loan can be secured by owner or non-owner occupied properties that include single family units and second homes. For additional information, see &#8220;Non-Traditional Mortgage Portfolio&#8221; and &#8220;Non-Traditional Mortgage Loan Credit Risk Management&#8221; under &#8220;Loans and Leases Receivable&#8221; in Item 7. 

Seasoned SFR Mortgage Loans: &#32;The Company has also purchased pools of seasoned SFR mortgage loans, primarily through The Palisades Group. The Company has established a proprietary, multifaceted due diligence process for acquisitions of seasoned SFR mortgage loan pools. Prior to acquiring mortgage loans, the Company, sub-advisors or due diligence partners will review the loan portfolio and conduct certain due diligence on a loan by loan basis, preparing a customized version of its diligence plan for each mortgage loan pool being reviewed that is designed to address certain identified pool specific risks. The diligence plan generally reviews several factors, including but not limited to, obtaining and reconciling property value, reviewing chains of title, reviewing assignments, confirming lien position, reviewing regulatory compliance, updating borrower credit, certifying collateral, reviewing modification agreements and reviewing servicing notes. For additional information, see &#8220;Seasoned SFR mortgage Loan Acquisition&#8221; and &#8220;Seasoned SFR mortgage Loan Acquisition Due Diligence&#8221; under &#8220;Loans and Leases Receivable&#8221; in Item 7. 

Construction Loans 

Our construction loans primarily relates to single family residential properties. The Company may in the future originate or purchase loans or participations in construction, renovation and rehabilitation loans on residential, multi-family and/or commercial real estate properties. 

Other Consumer Loans 

The Company offers a variety of secured consumer loans, including second deed of trust home equity loans and HELOCs and loans secured by savings deposits. The Company also offers a limited amount of unsecured loans. The Company originates consumer and other real estate loans primarily in its market area. Consumer loans generally have shorter terms to maturity or variable interest rates, which reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates, and carry higher rates of interest than do conventional SFR mortgage loans. Management believes that offering consumer loan products helps to expand and create stronger ties to the Company&#8217;s existing customer base by increasing the number of customer relationships and providing cross-marketing opportunities. 

Other HELOCs have a 7 or 10 year draw period and require the payment of 1.0 percent or 1.5 percent of the outstanding loan balance per month (depending on the terms) or interest only payment during the draw period. Following receipt of payments, the available credit includes amounts repaid up to the credit limit. HELOCs with a 10 year draw period have a balloon payment due at the end of the draw period or then fully amortize for the remaining term. For loans with shorter term draw periods, once the draw period has lapsed, generally the payment is fixed based on the loan balance and prevailing market interest rates at that time. 

The Company proactively monitors changes in the market value of all home loans contained in its portfolio. The most recent valuations were effective as of October 31, 2015. The Company has the right to adjust, and has adjusted, existing lines of credit to address current market conditions subject to the terms of the loan agreement and covenants. At December 31, 2015 , unfunded commitments totaled $86.6 million &#32;on other consumer lines of credit. Other consumer loan terms vary according to the type of collateral, length of contract and creditworthiness of the borrower. 

Off-Balance Sheet Commitments 

As part of its service to the Bank&#8217;s customers, the Bank from time to time issues formal commitments and lines of credit. These commitments can be either secured or unsecured. They may be in the form of revolving lines of credit for seasonal working capital needs or may take the form of commercial letters of credit or standby letters of credit. Commercial letters of credit facilitate import trade. Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the Bank to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. 

Loan and Lease Servicing 

The Company generally retains the right to service ARM loans held-for-investment, as well as conventional loans sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and FHA and VA loans issued in Ginnie Mae securities. The Company generally does not retain the right to service loans sold to private investors after sale of the loans. Loans sold to investors are subject to certain indemnification provisions, including the repurchase of loans sold and the repayment of sales proceeds to investors under certain conditions. In addition, if a customer defaults on a mortgage payment within the first few payments after the loan is sold, the Company may be required to repurchase the loan at the full amount and reimburse any premium paid by the purchaser. 

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 

The allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL) represents management&#8217;s best estimate of the probable losses inherent in the existing loan and lease portfolio. The ALLL is increased by the provision for loan losses charged to expense and reduced by loan and lease charge-offs, net of recoveries. 

Management evaluates the Company&#8217;s ALLL on a quarterly basis, or more often if needed. Management believes the ALLL is a &#8220;critical accounting estimation&#8221; because it is based upon the assessment of various quantitative and qualitative factors affecting the collectability of loans and leases, including current economic conditions, past credit experience, delinquency status, the value of the underlying collateral, if any, and a continuing review of the portfolio of loans and leases. 

The ALLL consists of three elements: (i) specific valuation allowances established for probable losses on impaired loans and leases, (ii) quantitative valuation allowances calculated using loss experience for like loans and leases with similar characteristics and trends, adjusted, as necessary to reflect the impact of current conditions; and (iii) qualitative allowances based on environmental and other factors that may be internal or external to the Company. 

During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company enhanced its methodologies, processes and controls over the ALLL, due to the Company's organic and acquisitive growth and changing profile. 

The following is a synopsis of the enhancements for each component of ALLL: 

&#8226; 

Expand the look-back period to 28 rolling quarters to capture a full economic cycle. 

&#8226; 

Utilize net historical losses versus gross historical losses. 

&#8226; 

Expand the peer group used to determine industry average loss history to include three industry groups; (i) all U.S. financial and bank holding companies, (ii) all California financial and bank holding companies, (iii) the peer group average from the Uniform Bank Performance Report. 

&#8226; 

Apply a segment specific loss emergence period to each segment's loss rate. 

&#8226; 

Determine qualitative reserves at each loan segment level based on a baseline risk weighting adjusted for current risks, trends and business conditions. 

&#8226; 

Disaggregate certain qualitative factors to be determined on the portfolio segment level. 

A loan or lease is considered impaired when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the original contractual terms of the agreement. Impaired loans and leases are identified at each reporting date based on certain criteria and the majority of which are individually reviewed for impairment. Nonaccrual loans and leases and all performing restructured loans are reviewed individually for the amount of impairment, if any. We measure impairment of a loan based upon the fair value of the loan&#8217;s collateral if the loan is collateral-dependent, or the present value of cash flows, discounted at the loan&#8217;s effective interest rate, if the loan is not collateral-dependent. We measure impairment of a lease based upon the present value of the scheduled lease and residual cash flows, discounted at the lease&#8217;s effective interest rate. Increased charge-offs or additions to specific reserves generally result in increased provisions for credit losses. 

Our loan and lease portfolio, excluding impaired loans and leases that are evaluated individually, is evaluated by segmentation. The segments we currently evaluate are: 

&#8226; 

Commercial and industrial 

&#8226; 

Commercial real estate 

&#8226; 

Construction 

&#8226; 

SBA 

&#8226; 

Leases 

&#8226; 

Single family residence &#8212; 1st deeds of trust 

&#8226; 

Single family residence, including HELOC &#8212; 2nd deeds of trust 

&#8226; 

Other consumer 

Within these segments, we evaluate loans and leases not adversely classified, which we refer to as &#8220;pass&#8221; credits, separately from adversely classified loans and leases. The adversely classified loans and leases are further grouped into three credit risk rating categories: &#8220;special mention,&#8221; &#8220;substandard,&#8221; and &#8220;doubtful.&#8221; See &#8220;Loans and Leases Receivable - Asset Quality&#8221; in Item 7. 

In addition, we may refer to the loans and leases classified as &#8220;substandard&#8221; and &#8220;doubtful&#8221; together as &#8220;classified&#8221; loans and leases. 

Although management believes the level of the ALLL as of December 31, 2015 &#32;was adequate to absorb probable losses in the portfolio, declines in economic conditions in the Company&#8217;s primary markets or other factors could result in losses that cannot be reasonably predicted at this time. 

Although we have established an ALLL that we consider appropriate, there can be no assurance that the established ALLL will be sufficient to offset losses on loans and leases in the future. Management also believes that the reserve for unfunded loan commitments is appropriate. In making this determination, we use the same methodology for the reserve for unfunded loan commitments as we do for the ALLL and consider the same quantitative and qualitative factors, as well as an estimate of the probability of advances of the commitments. 

At December 31, 2015 , our total ALLL was $35.5 million &#32;or 0.69 percent &#32;of total loans and leases, as compared to $29.5 million , or 0.75 percent &#32;of total loans and leases at December 31, 2014 . The decrease in the percentage of ALLL to total loans and leases was mainly due to improving asset quality, which resulted in low charge-offs and declining quantitative loss rates and qualitative factors in line with the current economic and business environment. The ALLL for loans collectively evaluated 

for impairment on originated loans and leases at December 31, 2015 &#32;was $32.7 million , which represented 1.05 percent &#32;of total originated loans and leases, as compared to $25.3 million , or 1.34 percent , of total originated loans and leases at December 31, 2014 . Including the non-credit impaired loans acquired through the acquisitions, the ALLL for loans collectively evaluated for impairment was $35.0 million , which represents 0.82 percent &#32;of total of such loans and leases at December 31, 2015 , as compared to $28.2 million , or 0.85 percent , or total of such loans and leases at December 31, 2014 . The ALLL for loans individually evaluated for impairment was $369 thousand &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;compared to $1.3 million &#32;at December 31, 2014 . The Company held no &#32;unallocated ALLL at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 . Assessing the ALLL is inherently subjective as it requires making material estimates, including the amount and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans and leases that may be susceptible to significant change. In the opinion of management, the allowance, when taken as a whole, reflects estimated probable losses presently inherent in our loan and lease portfolios. 

Investment Activities 

The general objectives of our investment portfolio are to provide liquidity when loan and lease demand is high, to assist in maintaining earnings when loan and lease demand is low and to provide a relatively stable source of interest income while satisfactorily managing risk, including credit risk, reinvestment risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk. For additional information, see Item 7A. 

The Company currently invests in SBA loan pool securities, debt and mortgage-backed securities issued by US-government sponsored entities, agency mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities, private label residential mortgage-backed securities, corporate bonds, and collateralized loan obligations. 

Sources of Funds 

General 

The Company&#8217;s primary sources of funds are deposits, payments on and maturities of outstanding loans and leases and investment securities, and other short-term investments and funds provided from operations. While scheduled payments from the amortization of loans and leases and mortgage-backed securities and maturing securities and short-term investments are relatively predictable sources of funds, deposit flows and loan and lease prepayments are greatly influenced by general interest rates, economic conditions, and competition. In addition, the Company invests excess funds in short-term interest-earning assets, which provide liquidity to meet lending requirements. The Company also generates cash through borrowings. The Company utilizes Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances to leverage its capital base, to provide funds for its lending activities, as a source of liquidity, and to enhance its interest rate risk management. 

Deposits 

The Bank offers a variety of deposit accounts to consumers, businesses, and institutional customers with a wide range of interest rates and terms. The Bank's deposits consist of savings accounts, money market deposit accounts, interest and non-interest bearing demand accounts, and certificates of deposit. The Bank solicits deposits primarily in our market area and from institutional investors. The Bank primarily relies on competitive pricing policies, marketing and customer service to attract and retain deposits. 

The flow of deposits is influenced significantly by general economic conditions, prevailing interest rates and competition. The variety of deposit accounts the Bank offers has allowed the Bank to be competitive in obtaining funds and to respond with flexibility to changes in demand from actual and prospective consumer, business and institutional customers. The Bank tries to manage the pricing of our deposits in keeping with our asset/liability management, liquidity and profitability objectives, subject to market competitive factors. Based on our experience, the Bank believes that our deposits are relatively stable sources of funds. Despite this stability, the Bank's ability to attract and maintain these deposits and the rates paid on them has been and will continue to be significantly affected by market conditions. 

Core deposits, which we define as noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing demand deposits, money market, savings and certificates of deposit of $250,000 or less, excluding any brokered deposits, increased $1.16 billion &#32;during the year ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and totaled $5.02 billion &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;and represented 79.6 percent &#32;of total deposits. The Bank held brokered deposits of $992.9 million , or 15.8 percent &#32;of total deposits, at December 31, 2015 . 

In addition to gathering consumer deposits through our community banking activities, business banking, private banking and financial institutions banking activities are key sources of deposits. 

Borrowings 

Although deposits are our primary source of funds, the Bank may utilize borrowings when they are a less costly source of funds and can be invested at a positive interest rate spread, when the Bank desires additional capacity to fund loan and lease demand or when they meet our asset/liability management goals to diversify our funding sources and enhance our interest rate risk management. The Bank&#8217;s borrowings historically have included advances from the FHLB of San Francisco. The Bank also has the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (Federal Reserve Bank), as well as through Federal Funds and reverse repurchase agreements. In addition, the Company has borrowed through the issuance of its Senior Notes and junior subordinated amortizing notes. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

The Bank may obtain advances from the FHLB by collateralizing the advances with certain of the Bank&#8217;s mortgage loans and mortgage-backed and other securities. These advances may be made pursuant to several different credit programs, each of which has its own interest rate, range of maturities and call features. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank had $930.0 million &#32;in FHLB advances outstanding and the ability to borrow an additional $1.29 billion . The Bank also had the ability to borrow $89.7 million &#32;from the Federal Reserve Bank as of that date. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding FHLB advances. 

Competition and Market Area 

The Company faces strong competition in originating real estate and other loans and in attracting deposits. Competition in originating real estate loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions and mortgage bankers. Other commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions and finance companies provide vigorous competition in consumer lending. 

The Company attracts deposits through its community banking branch network, its loan productions offices, its business banking teams, private banking teams, financial institution banking teams, its Treasury function, and through the internet. One of the ways the Company has been able to be competitive in this area is through its client focused community banking branch network, and its private banking, business banking and financial institutions banking teams. Consequently, the Company has the ability to service client needs with a variety of deposit accounts and products at competitive rates. Competition for deposits is principally from other commercial banks, savings institutions, and credit unions, as well as mutual funds, broker dealers, registered investment advisors, investment banks financial institutions, financial service companies, and other alternative investments. Based on the most recent branch deposit data as of June 30, 2015 &#32;provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the share of deposits for the Bank in Los Angeles, Orange, San Diego, and Santa Barbara counties was as follows: &#160; 

June 30, 2015 

Los Angeles County 

0.61 

% 

Orange County 

2.60 

% 

San Diego County 

0.75 

% 

Santa Barbara County 

1.13 

% 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we had a total of 1,679 &#32;full-time employees and 31 &#32;part-time employees. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining group. Management considers its employee relations to be satisfactory. 

Regulation and Supervision 

General 

The Company and the Bank are extensively regulated under federal laws. 

As a financial holding company, the Company is subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and its primary regulator is the Federal Reserve Board. As a national bank, the Bank is subject to regulation primarily by the OCC. In addition, the Bank is also subject to backup regulation from the FDIC. 

Regulation and supervision by the federal banking agencies are intended primarily for the protection of customers and depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the FDIC and not for the benefit of stockholders. Set forth below is a brief description of material information regarding certain laws and regulations that are applicable to the Company and the Bank. This description, as well as other descriptions of laws and regulations in this Form 10-K, is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to applicable laws and regulations. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) enacted on July 1, 2010 is one of the most significant pieces of financial legislation since the 1930s. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires that bank holding companies, such as the Company, act as a source of financial and managerial strength for their insured depository institution subsidiaries, such as the Bank, particularly when such subsidiaries are in financial distress. 

The Federal Reserve Board (FRB) has extensive enforcement authority over the Company and the OCC has extensive enforcement authority over the Bank under federal law. Enforcement authority generally includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Other actions or inactions may provide the basis for enforcement action, including misleading or untimely filing of reports. Except under certain circumstances, public disclosure of formal enforcement actions by the FRB and the OCC is required by law. 

The Dodd-Frank Act made other significant changes to the regulation of bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks, including the regulation of the Company and the Bank, and other significant changes will continue to occur as rules are promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act. These regulatory changes have had and will continue to have a material effect on the business and results of the Company and the Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), with the authority to promulgate regulations intended to protect consumers with respect to financial products and services, including those provided by the Bank, and to restrict unfair, deceptive or abusive conduct by providers of consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has issued rules under the Dodd-Frank Act affecting the Bank&#8217;s residential mortgage lending business, including ability-to-repay and qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards, loan originator compensation standards, high-cost mortgage requirements, appraisal and escrow standards and requirements for higher-priced mortgages. The activities of the Bank are also subject to regulation under numerous federal laws and state consumer protection statutes. 

In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act, other legislative and regulatory proposals affecting banks have been made both domestically and internationally. Among other things, these proposals include significant additional capital and liquidity requirements and limitations on size or types of activity in which banks may engage. 

Legislation is introduced from time to time in the United States Congress that may affect our operations. In addition, the regulations governing us may be amended from time to time. Any legislative or regulatory changes in the future, including those resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. 

The Company 

As a bank holding company that has elected to become a financial holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act (BHCA), the Company may engage in activities permitted for bank holding companies and may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. &#8220;Financial in nature&#8221; activities include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; and merchant banking. See &#8220;Volcker Rule&#8221; below. 

The Company is required to register and file reports with, and is subject to regulation and examination by the FRB. The FRB&#8217;s approval is required for acquisition of another financial institution or holding company thereof, and, under certain circumstances, for the acquisition of other subsidiaries. 

As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to the regulations of the FRB imposing capital requirements for a bank holding company, which establish a capital framework as described in &#8220;New Capital Requirements&#8221; below. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company was considered well-capitalized, with capital ratios in excess of those required to qualify as such. 

Under the FRB&#8217;s policy statement on the payment of cash dividends, a bank holding company should pay cash dividends only to the extent that its net income for the past year is sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the company&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. A bank holding company must give the FRB prior notice of any purchase or redemption of its equity securities if the consideration for the purchase or redemption, when combined with the consideration for all such purchases or redemptions in the preceding 12 months, is equal to 10 percent or more of its consolidated net worth. The FRB may disapprove such a purchase or redemption if it determines that the proposal would be an unsafe or unsound practice or would violate any law, regulation, FRB order, or condition imposed in writing by the FRB. This notification requirement does not apply to a bank holding company that qualifies as well 

capitalized, received a composite rating and a rating for management of &#8220;1&#8221; or &#8220;2&#8221; in its last examination and is not subject to any unresolved supervisory issue. Regarding dividends, see "New Capital Requirements" below. 

The Bank 

The Bank is subject to a variety of requirements under federal law. 

The Bank is required to maintain sufficient liquidity to ensure safe and sound operations. See "Liquidity" in Item 7. 

The OCC has adopted guidelines establishing safety and soundness standards on such matters as loan and lease underwriting and documentation, asset quality, earnings standards, internal controls and audit systems, interest rate risk exposure, and compensation and other employee benefits. Any institution which fails to comply with these standards must submit a compliance plan. 

The FRB requires all depository institutions to maintain non-interest bearing reserves at specified levels against their transaction accounts, primarily checking, NOW and Super NOW checking accounts. At December 31, 2015 , Bank was in compliance with these reserve requirements. 

FDIC Insurance 

The deposits of the Bank are insured up to the applicable limits by the FDIC, and such insurance is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The basic deposit insurance limit is generally $250,000. 

As insurer, the FDIC imposes deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of and to require reporting by FDIC-insured institutions. The Bank&#8217;s deposit insurance premiums for the year ended December 31, 2015 &#32;were $3.9 million . FDIC-insured institutions are required to pay an additional quarterly assessment called the FICO assessment in order to fund the interest on bonds issued to resolve thrift failures in the 1980s. This assessment will continue until the bonds mature in the years 2017 through 2019. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 , the Bank paid $322 thousand &#32;in FICO assessments. 

The FDIC assesses deposit insurance premiums quarterly on each FDIC-insured institution based on annualized rates. Each institution under $10 billion in assets is assigned to one of four risk categories based on its capital, supervisory ratings and other factors, with higher risk institutions paying higher premiums. Its deposit insurance premiums are based on the rates applicable to its risk category, subject to certain adjustments, and as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, are assessed on the amount of an institution&#8217;s total assets minus its Tier 1 capital. 

New Capital Requirements 

Effective January 1, 2015 (with some changes transitioned into full effectiveness over two to four years), the Company and the Bank became subject to new capital regulations adopted by the FRB and the OCC, which create a new required ratio for common equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital, increase the minimum leverage and Tier 1 capital ratios, change the risk-weightings of certain assets for purposes of the risk-based capital ratios, create an additional capital conservation buffer over the required capital ratios, and change what qualifies as capital for purposes of meeting the capital requirements. 

Under the new capital regulations, the minimum capital ratios are: (i) a CET1 capital ratio of 4.5 percent of total risk-weighted assets; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0 percent of total risk-weighted assets; (iii) a total capital ratio of 8.0 percent of total risk-weighted assets; and (iv) a leverage ratio (the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets) of 4.0 percent. 

CET1 capital generally consists of common stock, retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) except where an institution elects to exclude AOCI from regulatory capital, and certain minority interests, subject to applicable regulatory adjustments and deductions, including deduction of amounts of mortgage servicing assets and certain deferred tax assets that exceed specified thresholds. We elected to permanently opt out of including AOCI in regulatory capital. Tier 1 capital generally consists of CET1 capital plus noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and certain additional items less applicable regulatory adjustments and deductions. Tier 2 capital generally consists of subordinated debt; certain other preferred stock, and allowance for loan and lease losses up to 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets, less applicable regulatory adjustments and deductions. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. 

Assets and certain off-balance sheet items are assigned risk weights ranging from 0 percent to 1250 percent, reflecting credit risk and other risk exposure, to determine total risk weighted assets for the risk-based capital ratios. For some items, risk weights have changed compared to their risk weights under rules in effect before January 1, 2015. These include a 150 percent risk weight (up from 100 percent ) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans and for non-residential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise in nonaccrual status, a 20 percent (up from 0 percent) credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not 

unconditionally cancellable (currently set at 0 percent ), and a 250 percent risk weight (up from 100 percent) for mortgage servicing and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital. 

In addition to the minimum CET1, Tier 1, total capital and leverage ratios, the Company and the Bank must maintain a capital conservation buffer consisting of additional CET1 capital greater than 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets above the required minimum levels in order to avoid limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses. The capital conservation buffer requirement is phased in beginning on January 1, 2016, when a buffer greater than 0.625 percent of risk-weighted assets is required, which amount will increase each year until the buffer requirement is fully implemented on January 1, 2019. 

The OCC may establish an individual minimum capital requirement for a particular bank, based on its circumstances, which may vary from what would otherwise be required. The OCC has not imposed such a requirement on the Bank. 

To be considered well capitalized, the Company must maintain on a consolidated basis a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0 percent or more, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0 percent or more and not be subject to any written agreement, capital directive or prompt corrective action directive issued by the FRB to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. For the well-capitalized standard applicable to the Bank, see &#8220;Prompt Corrective Action&#8221; below. 

The OCC&#8217;s prompt corrective action standards changed when these new capital regulations became effective. Under the new standards, in order to be considered well-capitalized, the Bank must have a ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 6.5 percent (new), a ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 8 percent (increased from 6 percent), a ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of 10 percent (unchanged), and a leverage ratio of 5 percent (unchanged), and in order to be considered adequately capitalized, it must have the minimum capital ratios described above. 

Although we continue to evaluate the impact that the new capital rules will have on the Company and the Bank, we anticipate that the Company and the Bank will remain well-capitalized under the new capital rules, and will meet the capital conservation buffer requirement. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The Bank is required to maintain specified levels of regulatory capital under the capital and prompt corrective action regulations of the OCC. Through December 31, 2014, to be adequately capitalized, a bank must have the minimum capital ratios discussed in &#8220;New Capital Requirements&#8221; above. To be well-capitalized, an institution must have a CET1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.5 percent, Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.0 percent, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 5.0 percent. Institutions that are not well-capitalized are subject to certain restrictions on brokered deposits and interest rates on deposits. 

The OCC is authorized and, under certain circumstances, required to take certain actions against an institution that is less than adequately capitalized. Such an institution must submit a capital restoration plan, including a specified guarantee by its holding company, and until the plan is approved by the OCC, the institution may not increase its assets, acquire another institution, establish a branch or engage in any new activities, and generally may not make capital distributions. 

For institutions that are not at least adequately capitalized, progressively more severe restrictions generally apply as capital ratios decrease, or if the OCC reclassifies an institution into a lower capital category due to unsafe or unsound practices or unsafe or unsound condition. Such restrictions may cover all aspects of operations and may include a forced merger or acquisition. An institution that becomes &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221; because it has a tangible equity ratio of 2.0 percent or less is generally subject to the appointment of the FDIC as receiver or conservator for the institution within 90 days after it becomes critically undercapitalized. The imposition by the OCC of any of these measures on the Bank may have a substantial adverse effect on its operations and profitability. 

Anti-Money Laundering and Suspicious Activity 

Several federal laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act and the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the Patriot Act) require all financial institutions, including banks, to implement policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering when determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The Bank is subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, the Bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of its community, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions, and does not limit an institution&#8217;s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community in a manner consistent with the CRA. 

The OCC regularly assesses the Bank on its record in meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including low-income and moderate-income neighborhoods. The Bank received an outstanding rating in its most recent CRA evaluation. Of the uniform four-tier- rating system used by federal banking agencies in assessing CRA performance, an outstanding rating is the top tier rating available. This CRA rating deals strictly with how well an institution is meeting its responsibilities under the CRA and the OCC takes into account performance under the CRA when considering a bank&#8217;s application to establish or relocate a branch or main office or to merge with, acquire assets, or assume liabilities of another insured depository institution. The bank&#8217;s record may be the basis for denying the application. 

Performance under the CRA also is considered when the FRB reviews applications to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank, the Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company, and that records may be the basis for denying the application. 

Financial Privacy Under the Requirements of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLBA) 

The Company and its subsidiaries are required periodically to disclose to their retail customers the Company&#8217;s policies and practices with respect to the sharing of nonpublic customer information with its affiliates and others, and the confidentiality and security of that information. Under the GLBA, retail customers also must be given the opportunity to &#8220;opt out&#8221; of information-sharing arrangements with non-affiliates, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the GLBA. 

Limitations on Transactions with Affiliates and Loans to Insiders 

Transactions between the Bank and any affiliate are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. An affiliate of a bank is generally any company or entity which controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the bank but which is not a subsidiary of the bank. The Company and its subsidiaries are affiliates of the Bank. Generally, Section 23A limits the extent to which the Bank or its subsidiaries may engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10.0 percent of the Bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, and limits all such transactions with all affiliates to an amount equal to 20.0 percent of such capital stock and surplus. Section 23B applies to &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; as well as certain other transactions and requires that all transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the Bank, as those provided to a non-affiliate. The term &#8220;covered transaction&#8221; includes a loan by the Bank to an affiliate, the purchase of or investment in securities issued by an affiliate by the Bank, the purchase of assets by the Bank from an affiliate, the acceptance by the Bank of securities issued by an affiliate as collateral security for a loan or extension of credit to any person or company, or the issuance by the Bank of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. Loans by the Bank to an affiliate must be collateralized. 

In addition, Sections 22(g) and (h) of the Federal Reserve Act place restrictions on loans to executive officers, directors and principal stockholders of the Bank and its affiliates. Under Section 22(h), aggregate loans to a director, executive officer or greater than 10.0 percent stockholder of the Bank or any of its affiliates, and certain related interests of such a person may generally not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such person and related interests, 15.0 percent of the Bank&#8217;s unimpaired capital and surplus, plus an additional 10.0 percent of unimpaired capital and surplus for loans that are fully secured by readily marketable collateral having a value at least equal to the amount of the loan. Section 22(h) also requires that loans to directors, executive officers and principal stockholders be made on terms substantially the same as those offered in comparable transactions to other persons, and not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. There is an exception for loans that are made pursuant to a benefit or compensation program that (i) is widely available to employees of the Bank or its affiliate and (ii) does not give preference to any director, executive officer or principal stockholder or certain related interests over other employees of the Bank or its affiliate. Section 22(h) also requires prior board approval for certain loans. In addition, the aggregate amount of all loans to all of the executive officers, directors and principal stockholders of the Bank or its affiliates and certain related interests may not exceed 100.0 percent of the institution&#8217;s unimpaired capital and surplus. Furthermore, Section 22(g) places additional restrictions on loans to executive officers. 

The Company and its affiliates, including the Bank, maintain programs to meet the limitations on transactions with affiliates and restrictions on loans to insiders and the Company believes it is currently in compliance with these requirements. 

Identity Theft 

Under the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACT Act), the Bank is required to develop and implement a written Identity Theft Prevention Program to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft &#8220;red flags&#8221; in connection with the opening of certain accounts or certain existing accounts. Under the FACT Act, the Bank is required to adopt reasonable policies and procedures to (i) identify relevant red flags for covered accounts and incorporate those red flags into the program: (ii) detect red flags that have been incorporated into the program; (iii) respond appropriately to any red flags that are detected to prevent and mitigate identity theft; and (iv) ensure the program is updated periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft. 

The Bank maintains a program to meet the requirements of the FACT Act and the Bank believes it is currently in compliance with these requirements. 

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations; Other Regulations 

The Bank and its affiliates are subject to a broad array of federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations that govern almost every aspect of its business relationships with consumers, including but not limited to the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Secure and Fair Enforcement in Mortgage Licensing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Service Members Civil Relief Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act, the Consumer Leasing Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act, the Homeowners Protection Act, the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act, laws governing flood insurance, federal and state laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive business practices, foreclosure laws and various regulations that implement the foregoing. Among other things, these laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans and providing other services. If the Bank fails to comply with these laws and regulations, it may be subject to various penalties. 

The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB as a new independent bureau within the Federal Reserve System that is responsible for regulating consumer financial products and services under federal consumer financial laws. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority with respect to these laws. The Company and the Bank are subject to CFPB&#8217;s regulations regarding consumer financial services and products. The CFPB has issued numerous regulations, and is expected to continue to do so in the next few years. For the Bank and its affiliates, the CFPB&#8217;s regulations are enforced by the federal banking regulators. The CFPB&#8217;s rulemaking, examination and enforcement authority is expected to significantly affect financial institutions involved in the provision of consumer financial products and services, including the Company and the Bank. 

New restrictions on residential mortgages were also promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act. The provisions include (i) a requirement that lenders make a determination that at the time a residential mortgage loan is consummated the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay the loan and related costs; (ii) a ban on loan originator compensation based on the interest rate or other terms of the loan (other than the amount of the principal); (iii) a ban on prepayment penalties for certain types of loans; (iv) bans on arbitration provisions in mortgage loans; and (v) requirements for enhanced disclosures in connection with the making of a loan. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes a variety of requirements on entities that service mortgage loans. 

The OCC must approve the Bank&#8217;s acquisition of other financial institutions and certain other acquisitions, and its establishment of branches. Generally, the Bank may branch de novo nationwide, but branching by acquisition may be restricted by applicable state law. 

The Bank&#8217;s general limit on loans to one borrower is 15 percent of its capital and surplus, plus an additional 10 percent of its capital and surplus if the amount of loans greater than 15 percent of capital and surplus is fully secured by readily marketable collateral. Capital and surplus means Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital plus the amount of allowance for loan and lease losses not included in Tier 2 capital. The Bank has no loans in excess of its loans-to-one borrower limit. 

OCC regulations impose various restrictions on the ability of a bank to make capital distributions, which include dividends, stock redemptions or repurchases, and certain other items. Generally, a bank may make capital distributions during any calendar year equal to up to 100 percent of net income for the year-to-date plus retained net income for the two preceding years without prior OCC approval. However, the OCC may restrict dividends by an institution deemed to be in need of more than normal supervision. 

The Bank is a member of the FHLB, which makes loans or advances to members. All advances are required to be fully secured by sufficient collateral as determined by the FHLB, and all long-term advances are required to provide funds for residential 

home financing. The Bank is required to purchase and maintain stock in the FHLB. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank had $39.2 million &#32;in FHLB stock, which was in compliance with this requirement. 

Volcker Rule 

The federal banking agencies have adopted regulations to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act known as the Volcker Rule. Under the regulations, FDIC-insured depository institutions, their holding companies, subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, banking entities), are generally prohibited, subject to certain exemptions, from proprietary trading of securities and other financial instruments and from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in a &#8220;covered fund.&#8221; 

Trading in certain government obligations is not prohibited. These include, among others, obligations of or guaranteed by the United States or an agency or government-sponsored entity of the United States, obligations of a State of the United States or a political subdivision thereof, and municipal securities. Proprietary trading generally does not include transactions under repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, securities lending transactions and purchases and sales for the purpose of liquidity management if the liquidity management plan meets specified criteria; nor does it generally include transactions undertaken in a fiduciary capacity. 

The term &#8220;covered fund&#8221; can include, in addition to many private equity and hedge funds and other entities, certain collateralized mortgage obligations, collateralized debt obligations and collateralized loan obligations, and other items, but it does not include wholly owned subsidiaries, certain joint ventures, or loan securitizations generally, if the underlying assets are solely loans. The term &#8220;ownership interest&#8221; includes not only an equity interest or a partnership interest, but also an interest that has the right to participate in selection or removal of a general partner, managing member, director, trustee or investment manager or advisor; to receive a share of income, gains or profits of the fund; to receive underlying fund assets after all other interests have been redeemed; to receive all or a portion of excess spread; or to receive income on a pass-through basis or income determined by reference to the performance of fund assets. In addition, &#8220;ownership interest&#8221; includes an interest under which amounts payable can be reduced based on losses arising from underlying fund assets. 

Activities eligible for exemptions include, among others, certain brokerage, underwriting and marketing activities, and risk-mitigating hedging activities with respect to specific risks and subject to specified conditions. 

Future Legislation or Regulation 

In light of recent conditions in the United States economy and the financial services industry, the Obama administration, Congress, the regulators and various states continue to focus attention on the financial services industry. Additional proposals that affect the industry have been and will likely continue to be introduced. We cannot predict whether any of these proposals will be enacted or adopted or, if they are, the effect they would have on our business, our operations or our financial condition. 

