 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Citizens Community Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company") is a Maryland corporation organized in 2004. The Company is a bank holding company and is subject to regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;) and by the Federal Reserve Bank. Our primary activities consist of holding the stock of our wholly-owned subsidiary bank, Citizens Community Federal N.A. (the "Bank"), and providing consumer, commercial and agricultural banking activities through the Bank. At September 30, 2016 , we had approximately $696 million in total assets, $558 million in deposits, and $65 million in equity. Unless otherwise noted herein, all monetary amounts in this report, other than share, per share and capital ratio amounts, are stated in thousands. 

Citizens Community Federal N.A. 

The Bank is a federally chartered National Bank with 20 full-service offices; thirteen stand-alone locations and 7 in-store branches as of September 30, 2016 

On May 16, 2016, the Company successfully completed the acquisition through merger of Community Bank of Northern Wisconsin ("CBN"), with the Bank surviving the merger. The Merger expands our presence in our Rice Lake, Wisconsin market with five additional branches. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, the total purchase price paid in a combination of cash and debt issued by the Company was $17,447, which represented a $16,762 book value of CBN as of April 30, 2016, less a capital dividend of $4,342 declared by CBN, plus a $5,000 fixed premium and daily interest through May 16, 2016 in the amount of $27. The acquisition resulted in the following increases to our balance sheet as of the acquisition date: approximately $112,000 in loans, $151,000 in deposits, $4,228 of goodwill, $11,000 of debt, and $607 in a core deposit intangible. 

&#32;In August 2016, we announced the closing of four &#32;in-store branches located in Eastern Wisconsin, effective November 2016. As of September 30, 2016 , the Bank had twenty full-service branch offices plus one leased location with a full-service ATM which accepts cash and check deposits. After the closure of the four branch offices in Eastern Wisconsin, effective November 17, 2016, the Bank has 16 full-service offices: thirteen stand-alone locations and 3 in-store branches. We intend to continue to review our branch network to deploy assets and capital in growth markets and exit markets where we believe we have limited growth opportunities. Through all of our branch locations in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan, we provide a variety of commercial and consumer banking products and services to customers, including online and mobile banking options. 

Internet Website 

We maintain a website at www.ccf.us. We make available through that website, free of charge, copies of our Annual report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements for our annual stockholders&#8217; meetings and amendments to those reports or documents, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). We are not including the information contained on or available through our website as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov &#32;that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants. 

Selected Consolidated Financial Information 

This information is included in Item 6; &#8220;Selected Financial Data&#8221; herein. 

Yields Earned and Rates Paid 

This information is included in Item 7; &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221;, under the heading &#8220;Statement of Operations Analysis&#8221; herein. 

Rate/Volume Analysis 

This information is included in Item 7; &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221;, under the heading &#8220;Statement of Operations Analysis&#8221; herein. 

&#160; 

Average Balance, Interest and Average Yields and Rates 

This information is included in Item 7; &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221;, under the heading &#8220;Statement of Operations Analysis&#8221; herein. 

Lending 

We offer a variety of loan products including commercial loans, agricultural loans, residential mortgages, home equity lines-of-credit, commercial and industrial (C&#38;I) loans and consumer loans. We make real estate, consumer, commercial and agricultural loans in accordance with the basic lending policies established by Bank management and approved by our Board of Directors. We focus our lending activities on individual consumers and small commercial borrowers within our market areas. Our lending has been historically concentrated primarily within Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan. Competitive and economic pressures exist in our lending markets, and recent and any future developments in (a) the general economy, (b) real estate lending markets, and (c) the banking regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These factors may impact the credit quality of our existing loan portfolio, or adversely impact our ability to originate sufficient high quality loans in the future. 

Our total gross outstanding loans, before net deferred loan costs, as of September 30, 2016 , were $574,248 , consisting of $187,738 &#32;in residential real estate loans, $152,853 &#32;in commercial/agricultural real estate loans, $188,009 in consumer non-real estate loans, and $45,648 in commercial/agricultural non-real estate loans. 

Investments 

We maintain a portfolio of investments, consisting primarily of U.S. Government sponsored agency securities, bonds and other obligations issued by states and their political subdivisions and mortgage-backed securities. We attempt to balance our portfolio to manage interest rate risk, regulatory requirements, and liquidity needs while providing an appropriate rate of return commensurate with the risk of the investment. 

Deposits 

We offer a broad range of deposit products through our branches, including demand deposits, various savings and money-market accounts and certificates of deposit. Deposits are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;) up to statutory limits. At September 30, 2016 , our total deposits were $557,677 &#32;including interest bearing deposits of $512,269 and non-interest bearing deposits of $45,408 . 

Competition 

We compete with other financial institutions and businesses both in attracting and retaining deposits and making loans in all of our principal markets. We believe the primary factors in competing for deposits are interest rates, personalized services, 

the quality and range of financial services, technology, convenience of office locations and office hours. Competition for deposit products comes primarily from other banks, credit unions and non-bank competitors, including insurance companies, money market and mutual funds, and other investment alternatives. We believe the primary factors in competing for loans are interest rates, loan origination fees, and the quality and the range of lending services. Competition for loans comes primarily from other banks, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, leasing companies and other financial intermediaries. Some of our competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as that imposed on national banks or federally insured institutions, and these other institutions may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively. We also face direct competition from other banks and their holding companies that have greater assets and resources than ours. 

&#160; 

Regulation and Supervision 

The Bank is examined and regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of Currency (OCC), and the Company is examined and regulated by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. The Bank is &#32;a member of the Federal Reserve System and Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago, which is one of the 12 regional banks in the Federal Home Loan Bank System. In addition, the Bank&#8217;s deposit accounts are insured by the FDIC to the maximum extent permitted by law, and the FDIC has certain enforcement powers over the Bank. 

Capital Adequacy 

Banks and bank holding companies are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by state and federal banking agencies. Capital adequacy guidelines and, additionally for banks, prompt corrective action regulations involve 

quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance-sheet items calculated under regulatory accounting practices. 

Capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weighting and other factors. 

The OCC, Federal Reserve and the FDIC have substantially similar risk-based capital ratio and leverage ratio guidelines for banking organizations. The risk-based guidelines are intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Under the guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain minimum ratios for Tier 1 capital and total capital to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as letters of credit). For purposes of calculating the ratios, a banking organization&#8217;s assets and some of its specified off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are assigned to various risk categories. A depository institution&#8217;s or holding company&#8217;s capital, in turn, is classified in one of two tiers, depending on type: 

Core Capital (Tier 1). Tier 1 capital includes common equity, retained earnings, qualifying non-cumulative perpetual 

preferred stock, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual stock at the holding company level, minority 

interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, qualifying trust preferred securities, less goodwill, most 

intangible assets and certain other assets; and 

Supplementary Capital (Tier 2). Tier 2 capital includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock and trust 

preferred securities not meeting the Tier 1 definition, qualifying mandatory convertible debt securities, qualifying 

subordinated debt, and allowances for possible loan and lease losses, subject to limitations. 

New Capital Rules 

In July 2013, the federal banking regulators issued new regulations relating to capital, referred to as the &#8220;Basel III Rules.&#8221; 

The Basel III Rules apply to both depository institutions and their holding companies. Although parts of the Basel III Rules 

apply only to large, complex financial institutions, substantial portions of the Basel III Rules apply to the Bank and the 

Company. The Basel III Rules include requirements contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act as well as certain standards initially 

adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2010. 

The Basel III Rules include new risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements and refine the definition of what 

constitutes &#8220;capital&#8221; for purposes of calculating those ratios. Effective January 1, 2015, the minimum capital level requirements 

applicable to the Company and the Bank under the Basel III Rules are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. Common equity Tier 1 capital consists of retained 

earnings and common stock instruments, subject to certain adjustments, as well as accumulated other comprehensive income 

(&#8220;AOCI&#8221;) except to the extent that the Company and the Bank exercise a one-time irrevocable option to exclude certain 

components of AOCI. 

The Basel III Rules also establish a &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221; of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum risk-based 

capital requirements. The conservation buffer, when added to the capital requirements, results in the following minimum 

ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total 

risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement was phased in beginning in January 2016 

at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase by that amount each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An 

institution would be subject to limitations on certain activities including payment of dividends, share repurchases and 

discretionary bonuses to executive officers if its capital level is below the buffered ratio. Although these new capital ratios do not become fully phased in until 2019, it is anticipated that the banking regulators will expect bank holding companies and banks to meet these requirements well ahead of that date. 

The Basel III Rules also revise the prompt corrective action framework (as discussed below), which is designed to place 

restrictions on insured depository institutions, including the Bank, if their capital levels do not meet certain thresholds. These 

revisions became effective January 1, 2015. The prompt correction action rules include a common equity Tier 1 capital 

component and increase certain other capital requirements for the various thresholds. As of January 1, 2015, insured depository 

institutions are required to meet the following capital levels in order to qualify as &#8220;well-capitalized:&#8221; (i) a new common equity 

Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% (increased from 6%); (iii) a total risk-based 

capital ratio of 10% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% (unchanged from current rules). 

The Federal Reserve may also set higher capital requirements for holding companies whose circumstances warrant it. For 

example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital 

positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. At this time, the 

bank regulatory agencies are more inclined to impose higher capital requirements to meet well-capitalized standards and future 

regulatory change could impose higher capital standards as a routine matter. The Bank, as a matter of prudent management, 

targets as its goal the maintenance of capital ratios which exceed these minimum requirements and that are consistent with the 

Bank&#8217;s risk profile. 

The Basel III Rules set forth certain changes in the methods of calculating certain risk-weighted assets, which in turn 

affect the calculation of risk based ratios. Under the Basel III Rules, higher or more sensitive risk weights are assigned to 

various categories of assets, including certain credit facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real 

property, certain exposures or credits that are 90 days past due or on nonaccrual, foreign exposures and certain corporate exposures. In addition, these rules include greater recognition of collateral and guarantees, and revised capital treatment for derivatives and repo-style transactions. 

Employees 

At December 29, 2016 , we had 145 full-time employees and 176 total employees, company-wide. We have no unionized employees, and we are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements. 

