 Item 1. Business 

General Corporate Overview 

We are a leader in the retail financial advice market, the nation's largest independent broker-dealer (based on total revenues, Financial Planning magazine June 1996-2015), a top custodian for registered investment advisors ("RIAs"), and a leading independent consultant to retirement plans. We provide an integrated platform of brokerage and investment advisory services to more than 14,000 &#32;independent financial advisors (our "advisors"), including financial advisors at more than 700 &#32;financial institutions across the country, enabling them to provide their retail investors ("clients") with objective financial advice through a lower conflict model. We also support over 4,200 &#32;financial advisors who are affiliated and licensed with insurance companies that use our customized clearing services, advisory platforms, and technology solutions. 

Through our advisors, we are one of the largest &#32;distributors of financial products and services in the United States, and are one of the top five firms based on the number of advisors in the United States. 

We believe there is a fundamental need for independent financial advice in America. We believe investors achieve better outcomes when working with a financial advisor. We strive to make it easy for financial advisors to do what is best for their clients, while protecting advisors and investors and promoting independence and choice through access to a wide range of diligently evaluated non-proprietary products. This is the sole focus of our business. 

Our mission is to enable our advisors to focus on what they do best&#8212;create the personal, long-term relationships that are the foundation for turning life&#8217;s aspirations into financial realities. Our differentiator is the combination of our capabilities across research, technology, risk management, and practice management, which together exceed any individual competitor&#8217;s offering. All of these are delivered in an environment unencumbered by conflicts from product manufacturing, underwriting, or market-making. 

We began operations through LPL Financial LLC ("LPL Financial"), our broker-dealer subsidiary, in 1989. LPL Financial Holdings Inc., which is the parent company of our collective businesses, was incorporated in Delaware in 2005. LPL Financial is a clearing broker-dealer and an investment advisor that primarily transacts business as an agent for our advisors on behalf of their clients by providing access to a broad array of financial products and services. Through our subsidiary The Private Trust Company, N.A. ("PTC"), we offer trust administration, investment management oversight and Individual Retirement Account ("IRA") custodial services for estates and families. Our subsidiary, Independent Advisers Group Corporation (&#8220;IAG&#8221;), offers an investment advisory solution to insurance companies to support their financial advisors who are licensed with them. Our subsidiary, LPL Insurance Associates, Inc., ("LPLIA"), operates as a brokerage general agency that offers life, long-term care, and disability insurance sales and services. 

Our Business 

Our Advisor Relationships 

Our business is dedicated exclusively to our advisors; we are not a market-maker nor do we offer investment banking or underwriting services. We offer no proprietary products of our own. Because we do not offer proprietary products, we enable the independent financial advisors, banks, and credit unions that we support to offer their clients lower-conflict advice. 

We work alongside advisors to navigate complex market and regulatory environments and strive to empower them to create the best outcomes for investors. In addition, we make meaningful investments in technology and services to support the growth, productivity, and efficiency of advisors across a broad spectrum of business models as their practices evolve. LPL advisors are part of a community of diverse, entrepreneurial financial services professionals from whom they can learn and grow. 

We believe we offer a compelling economic value proposition to independent advisors, which is a key factor in our ability to attract and retain advisors and their practices. The independent channels pay advisors a greater share of brokerage commissions and advisory fees than the captive channels &#8212; generally 80-90% compared to 30-50%. Through our scale and operating efficiencies, we are able to offer our advisors what we believe to be the highest average payout ratios among the five largest U.S. broker-dealers, ranked by number of advisors. 

Furthermore, we believe that our technology and service platforms enable our advisors to operate their practices with a greater focus on serving investors while generating revenue opportunities and at a lower cost than 

&#32;1 

other independent advisors. As a result, we believe that our advisors who own practices earn more pre-tax profit than practice owners affiliated with other independent brokerage firms. Finally, as business owners, our independent financial advisors, unlike captive advisors, also have the opportunity to build equity in their own businesses. 

Our advisors build long-term relationships with their clients in communities across the U.S. by guiding them through the complexities of investment decisions, retirement solutions, financial planning, and wealth-management. Our advisors support approximately 4.6 million client accounts. Our services are designed to support the evolution of our advisors&#8217; businesses over time and to adapt as our advisors' needs change. 

Our advisors average over 15 years of industry experience, which allows us to focus on supporting and enhancing our advisors&#8217; businesses without needing to provide basic training or subsidizing advisors who are new to the industry. Our flexible business platform allows our advisors to choose the most appropriate business model to support their clients, whether they conduct brokerage business, offer brokerage and fee-based services on our corporate RIA platforms, or provide fee-based services through their own RIA practices. 

The majority of our advisors are entrepreneurial independent contractors who are primarily located in rural and suburban areas and as such are viewed as local providers of independent advice. Many of our advisors operate under their own business name, and we may assist these advisors with their own branding, marketing and promotion, and regulatory review. 

Advisors licensed with LPL Financial as registered representatives and as investment advisory representatives are able to conduct both commission-based business on our brokerage platform and fee-based business on our corporate RIA platform. In order to be licensed with LPL Financial, advisors must be approved through our assessment process, which includes a thorough review of each advisor&#8217;s education, experience, and credit and compliance history. Approved advisors become registered with LPL Financial and enter into a representative agreement that establishes the duties and responsibilities of each party. Pursuant to the representative agreement, each advisor makes a series of representations, including that the advisor will disclose to all clients and prospective clients that the advisor is acting as LPL Financial's registered representative or investment advisory representative, that all orders for securities will be placed through LPL Financial, that the advisor will sell only products that LPL Financial has approved, and that the advisor will comply with LPL Financial policies and procedures as well as securities rules and regulations. These advisors also agree not to engage in any outside business activity without prior approval from us and not to act in competition with us. 

LPL Financial also supports over 375 stand-alone RIA firms ("Hybrid RIAs") with over 3,900 advisors who conduct their advisory business through these separate entities, rather than through LPL Financial. Hybrid RIAs operate pursuant to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the "Advisers Act") or their respective states' investment advisory licensing rules. These Hybrid RIAs engage us for technology, clearing, and custody services, as well as access to certain of our investment platforms. Advisors associated with Hybrid RIAs retain 100% of their advisory fees. In return, we charge separate fees for custody, trading, administrative, and support services. In addition, most financial advisors associated with Hybrid RIAs carry their brokerage license with LPL Financial and access our fully-integrated brokerage platform under standard terms, although some financial advisors associated with Hybrid RIAs do not carry a brokerage license with us. &#32; 

We believe we are the market leader in providing support to over 2,200 financial advisors at approximately 700 &#32;banks and credit unions nationwide. For these institutions, the core capabilities of which may not include investment and financial planning services, or that find the technology, infrastructure, and regulatory requirements of supporting such services to be cost-prohibitive, we provide their financial advisors with the infrastructure and services they need to be successful, allowing the institutions to focus more energy and capital on their core businesses. 

A subset of our advisors provides advice and serves group retirement plans primarily for small and mid-size businesses. These advisors serve over 32,300 &#32;retirement plans representing $83.0 billion &#32;in retirement plan assets custodied at various custodians. LPL Financial provides these advisors with marketing tools and technology capabilities that are designed for retirement solutions. 

We also provide support to approximately 4,200 &#32;additional financial advisors who are affiliated and licensed with insurance companies. These arrangements allow us to provide outsourced customized clearing, advisory platforms, and technology solutions that enable the financial advisors at these insurance companies to offer a breadth of services to their client base in an efficient manner. 

&#32;2 

Our Value Proposition 

The core of our business is dedicated to meeting the evolving needs of our advisors and providing the platform and tools to grow and enhance the profitability of their businesses. We are dedicated to continuously improving the processes, systems, and resources we leverage to meet these needs. 

We support our advisors by providing front-, middle-, and back-office solutions through our distinct value proposition: integrated technology solutions, comprehensive clearing and compliance services, consultive practice management programs and training, and independent research. The comprehensive and increasingly automated nature of our offering enables our advisors to focus on their clients while successfully and efficiently managing the complexities of running their own practice. 

Integrated Technology Solutions 

We provide our technology and service to advisors through an integrated technology platform that is server-based and web-accessible. Our technology offerings are designed to permit our advisors to effectively manage all critical aspects of their businesses in an efficient manner while remaining responsive to their clients&#8217; needs. We continue to automate time-consuming processes, such as account opening and management, document imaging, transaction execution, and account rebalancing, in an effort to improve our advisors' efficiency and accuracy. 

Comprehensive Clearing and Compliance Services 

We provide custody and clearing services for the majority of our advisors&#8217; transactions, providing a simplified and streamlined advisor experience and expedited processing capabilities. Our self-clearing platform enables us to better control client data, more efficiently process and report trades, facilitate platform development, reduce costs, and ultimately enhance the service experience for our advisors and their clients. Our self-clearing platform also enables us to serve a wider range of advisors, including Hybrid RIAs and their associated advisors. 

We continue to make substantial investments in our compliance function to provide our advisors with a strong framework through which to understand and operate within regulatory guidelines, as well as guidelines that we establish. Protecting the best interests of investors and our affiliated advisors is of utmost importance to us. As the financial industry and regulatory environment evolve and become more complex, we remain devoted to serving our clients ethically and exceedingly well. We have made a long-term commitment to enhancing our risk management and compliance structure. Our technology-based compliance and risk management tools further enhance the overall effectiveness and scalability of our control environment. 

Our team of risk and compliance employees assist our advisors through: 

&#8226; 

training and advising advisors on new products, new regulatory guidelines, compliance and risk management tools, security policies and procedures, anti-money laundering, and best practices; 

&#8226; 

supervising sales practice activities and facilitating the oversight of activities for branch managers; 

&#8226; 

conducting technology-enabled surveillance of trading activities and sales practices; 

&#8226; 

for advisors on our corporate RIA platform, overseeing and monitoring of registered investment advisory activities; and 

&#8226; 

inspecting branch offices and advising on how to strengthen compliance procedures. 

Practice Management Programs and Training 

Our practice management programs are designed to help financial advisors in independent practices and financial institutions, as well as all levels of financial institution leadership, enhance and grow their businesses. Our experience gives us the ability to benchmark the best practices of successful advisors and develop customized recommendations to meet the specific needs of an advisor&#8217;s business and market, and our scale allows us to dedicate a team of experienced professionals to this effort. Our practice management and training services include: 

&#8226; 

personalized business consulting that helps eligible advisors and program leadership enhance the value and operational efficiency of their businesses; 

&#8226; 

advisory and brokerage consulting and financial planning to support advisors in growing their businesses through our broad range of products and fee-based offerings, as well as wealth management services to assist advisors serving high-net-worth clients with comprehensive estate, tax, philanthropic, and financial planning processes; 

&#8226; 

marketing strategies, including campaign templates, to enable advisors to build awareness of their services and capitalize on opportunities in their local markets; 

&#32;3 

&#8226; 

succession planning and an advisor loan program for advisors looking to either sell their own or buy another practice; 

&#8226; 

transition services to help advisors establish independent practices and migrate client accounts to us; and 

&#8226; 

in-person and virtual training and educational programs on topics including technology, use of advisory platforms, and business development. 

Independent Research 

We provide our advisors with integrated access to comprehensive research on a broad range of investments and market analysis on macro-economic events, capital markets assumptions, and strategic and tactical asset allocation. Our research team provides advice that is designed to empower our advisors to provide their clients with thoughtful advice in a timely manner, including the creation of discretionary portfolios for which we serve as a portfolio manager that are available through our turnkey advisory asset management platforms. Our research team actively works with our product due diligence group to effectively scrutinize the financial products offered through our platform. This includes third-party asset manager search, selection, and monitoring services for both traditional and alternative strategies across all investment access points (ETFs, mutual funds, separately managed accounts, unified managed accounts, and other products and services). Our lack of proprietary products or investment banking services enables us to provide research that remains unbiased and objective. 

Our Product and Solution Access 

We do not manufacture any financial products. Instead, we provide our advisors with open architecture access to a broad range of commission, fee-based, cash, and money market products and services. Our product due diligence group conducts diligence on substantially all of our product offerings. Our platform provides access to approximately 795 &#32;product providers that offer the following product lines: 

&#8226; Insurance Based Products 

&#160; 

&#8226; Alternative Investments 

&#8226; Structured Products 

&#160; 

&#8226; Mutual Funds 

&#8226; Separately Managed Accounts 

&#160; 

&#8226; Exchange Traded Products 

&#8226; Unit Investment Trusts 

&#160; 

&#8226; Retirement Plan Products 

&#8226; Annuities 

&#160; 

&#160; 

The sales and administration of these products are facilitated through our technology solutions that allow our advisors to access client accounts, product information, asset allocation models, investment recommendations, and economic insight as well as to perform trade execution. 

Commission-Based Products 

Commission-based products are those for which we and our advisors receive an upfront commission and, for certain products, a trailing commission, or a mark-up or mark-down. Our brokerage offerings include variable and fixed annuities, mutual funds, equities, alternative investments such as non-traded real estate investment trusts and business development companies, retirement and 529 education savings plans, fixed income, and insurance. As of December 31, 2015 , the total assets in our commission-based products were $288.4 billion . 

Fee-Based Advisory Platforms and Support 

LPL Financial has various fee-based advisory platforms that provide centrally managed or customized solutions from which advisors can choose to meet the investment needs of their mass affluent clients and high-net-worth clients. The fee structure enables our advisors to provide their clients with higher levels of service, while establishing a recurring revenue stream for the advisor and for us. Our fee-based platforms provide access to no-load/load-waived mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, stocks, bonds, conservative option strategies, unit investment trusts, and institutional money managers and no-load multi-manager variable annuities. As of December 31, 2015 , the total advisory assets under custody in these platforms were $187.2 billion . 

Cash Sweep Programs 

We assist our advisors in managing their clients&#8217; cash balances through two primary cash sweep programs depending on account type: a money market sweep vehicle involving money market fund providers and an insured bank deposit sweep vehicle. As of December 31, 2015 , the total assets in our cash sweep programs, which are held within brokerage and advisory accounts, were approximately $29.0 billion , with $20.9 billion &#32;in a bank deposit sweep vehicle and $8.1 billion &#32;held in a money market sweep vehicle. 

&#32;4 

Retirement Services 

We offer retirement solutions for commission- and fee-based services that allow advisors to provide brokerage services, consultation, and advice to plan sponsors using LPL Financial. Our advisors, whether through LPL Financial or through a Hybrid RIA, serve over 32,300 &#32;retirement plans representing at least $83.0 billion &#32;in retirement plan assets. These retirement plan assets are custodied with LPL Financial or various third-party providers of retirement plan administrative services that provide us with direct reporting feeds. There are additional retirement plan assets supported by our advisors that are custodied with third-party providers that do not provide reporting feeds to us. We estimate there are over 40,000 retirement plans served by our advisors with total retirement plan assets of approximately $118.0 billion . We earn revenue from retirement plan assets that are custodied with LPL Financial and from those that are not custodied with LPL Financial, but which are serviced by advisors through LPL Financial. Accordingly, only retirement plan assets that are custodied with LPL Financial are included in our reported advisory and brokerage assets. 

Other Services 

We provide a number of tools and services that enable advisors to maintain and grow their practices. Through our subsidiary PTC, we provide custodial services to trusts for estates and families. Under our unique model, an advisor may provide a trust with investment management services, while administrative services for the trust are provided by PTC. 

&#32;5 

Our Financial Model 

Our overall financial performance is a function of the following dynamics of our business: 

&#8226; 

Our revenues stem from diverse sources, including advisor-generated commission and advisory fees, as well as other asset-based fees from product manufacturers, omnibus, networking services, cash sweep balances, and transaction and other fees for other ancillary services that we provide. Revenues are not concentrated by advisor, product, or geography. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , no single relationship with our independent advisor practices, banks, credit unions, or insurance companies accounted for more than 4% of our net revenues, and no single advisor accounted for more than 1% of our net revenues. 

&#8226; 

The largest variable component of our cost base, advisor payout percentages, is directly linked to revenues generated by our advisors. 

&#8226; 

A portion of our revenues, such as software licensing and account and client fees, are not correlated with the equity financial markets. 

&#8226; 

Our operating model is scalable and is capable of delivering expanding profit margins over time. 

&#8226; 

We have been able to operate with low capital expenditures and limited capital requirements, and as a result have generated substantial free cash flow, which we have committed to investing in our business as well as returning value to shareholders. 

&#8226; 

The majority of our revenue base is recurring in nature, with approximately 72% &#32;recurring revenue in 2015 . 

&#32;6 

Our Competitive Strengths 

Market Leadership &#32; Position and Significant Scale 

We are the established leader in the independent advisor market, which is our core business focus. We use our scale and position as an industry leader to champion the independent business model and the rights of our advisors. 

Our scale enables us to benefit from the following dynamics: 

&#8226; 

Continual Reinvestment &#32;&#8212; We actively reinvest in our comprehensive technology platform and practice management support, which further improves the productivity of our advisors. 

&#8226; 

Economies of Scale &#32;&#8212; As one of the largest distributors of financial products in the United States, we have been able to obtain attractive economics from product manufacturers. 

&#8226; 

Payout Ratios to Advisors &#32;&#8212; Among the five largest U.S. broker-dealers by number of advisors, we believe that we offer the highest average payout ratios to our advisors. 

The combination of our ability to reinvest in our business and maintain highly competitive payout ratios has enabled us to attract and retain advisors. This, in turn, has driven our growth and led to a continuous cycle of reinvestment that reinforces our established scale advantage. 

Unique Value Proposition 

Our differentiator is the combination of our capabilities across research, technology, risk management, and practice management, which together exceed any individual competitor&#8217;s offering. LPL makes meaningful investments to support the growth, productivity, and efficiency of advisors across a broad spectrum of models as their practices evolve. Our focus is working alongside advisors to navigate complex environments in order to create the best outcomes for investors. 

We believe we offer a unique and dedicated value proposition to independent financial advisors and financial institutions. This value proposition is built upon the delivery of our services through our scale, independence, and integrated technology, the sum of which we believe is not replicated in the industry. As a result we believe that we do not have any direct competitors that offer our unique business model at the scale at which we offer it. For example, because we do not have any proprietary manufactured financial products, we do not view firms that manufacture asset management products and other financial products as direct competitors. 

We provide comprehensive solutions to financial institutions, such as regional banks, credit unions, and insurers that seek to provide a broad array of services for their clients. We believe many institutions find the technology, infrastructure, and regulatory requirements associated with delivering financial advice to be cost-prohibitive. The solutions we provide enable financial advisors at these institutions to deliver their services on a cost-effective basis. 

Flexibility of Our Business Model 

Our business model allows our advisors the freedom to choose how they conduct their business, subject to certain regulatory parameters, which has helped us attract and retain advisors from multiple channels, including wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, and other independent broker-dealers. Our accommodating platform serves a variety of independent advisor business models, including independent financial advisors and Hybrid RIAs. The flexibility of our business model makes it easy for our advisors to transition among the independent advisor business models and product mix as their business evolves and preferences change within the market. Our own business model provides advisors with a multitude of customizable service and technology offerings that allow them to increase their efficiency, focus on their clients and grow their practice. 

Ability to Serve Approximately 88% of Retail Assets 

Our historic focus has been on advisors who serve the mass-affluent market and we believe there continues to be an attractive opportunity in this market. Although we have grown through our focus in this area, the flexibility of our platform allows us to expand our breadth of services to better support the high-net-worth market. As of December 31, 2015 , our advisors supported accounts with more than $1 &#160; million in assets that in the aggregate represented $90.0 &#160; billion in advisory and brokerage assets,which is 18.9% of our total assets custodied. Our array of integrated technology and services is capable of supporting advisors with significant production and can compete directly with wirehouses and custodians. We are able to support our advisors to meet the needs of their mass market clients up through the high-net-worth market, which, according to Cerulli Associates, accounts for approximately 88% of retail assets. 

&#32;7 

Our Sources of Growth 

We believe we can increase our revenue and profitability by benefiting from favorable industry trends and by executing strategies to accelerate our growth beyond that of the broader markets in which we operate. 

Favorable Industry Trends 

Growth in Investable Assets 

According to Cerulli Associates, over the past five years, assets serviced in the market segments in the United States that we address grew 8.9% per year, while retirement assets are expected to grow 5.1% per year over the next five years (in part due to the retirement of the baby boomer generation and the resulting assets that are projected to flow out of retirement plans and into individual retirement accounts). In addition, IRA assets are projected to grow from $8.0 trillion as of 2015 &#32;to $10.7 trillion by 2019. Along with to the retirement of the baby boomer generation, there is a general need in the United States for greater and smarter retirement savings as well as increased regulatory pressures on 401(k) plan sponsors. 

(1) 

The &#32;Cerulli Report: The State of U.S. Retail and Institutional Asset Management 2015. 

(2) 

The Cerulli Report: U.S. Retirement Markets 2015. 

Increasing Demand for Independent Financial Advice 

Retail investors, particularly in the mass-affluent market, are increasingly seeking financial advice from independent sources. We are highly focused on helping independent advisors meet the needs of the mass-affluent market, which constitutes a significant and underserved portion of investable assets. 

Advisor Migration to Independence 

Independent channels continue to gain market share from captive channels. We believe that we are not just a beneficiary of this secular shift, but an active catalyst in the movement to independence. There is an increased shift towards advisors seeking complete independence by forming an RIA firm and registering directly with the SEC or state securities regulators. However, the clients of these advisors are generally interested in retaining assets in brokerage accounts. This shift has lead to significant growth in the number of advisors associated with Hybrid RIAs. 

Macroeconomic Trends 

While the current macroeconomic environment has exhibited short-term volatility, we anticipate an appreciation in asset prices and a rise in interest rates over the long term. We expect that our business will benefit from growth in advisory and brokerage assets as well as increasing interest rates. 

&#32;8 

Executing Our Growth Strategies 

Attracting New Advisors to Our Platform 

We intend to grow the number of advisors who are served by our platform &#8212; either those who are independent or who are aligned with financial institutions. We have a 4.5% market share of the approximately 309,000 financial advisors in the United States, according to Cerulli Associates, and we believe that we are uniquely positioned to attract seasoned advisors of any practice size and from any of the channels listed below. 

Channel 

&#160; 

Advisors 

&#160; 

Market Share 

Independent Broker-Dealer(1) 

&#160; 

73,355 

&#160; 

23.7% 

Insurance Broker-Dealer 

&#160; 

77,107 

&#160; 

25.0% 

Wirehouse 

&#160; 

46,826 

&#160; 

15.2% 

Regional Broker-Dealer 

&#160; 

31,953 

&#160; 

10.3% 

RIA(1) 

&#160; 

30,789 

&#160; 

10.0% 

Bank Broker-Dealer 

&#160; 

22,742 

&#160; 

7.3% 

Dually registered RIAs(1) 

&#160; 

26,165 

&#160; 

8.5% 

Total 

&#160; 

308,937 

&#160; 

100.0% 

___________________ 

(1) The 26,165 advisors classified as "dually registered RIAs" are advisors who are both licensed through independent broker-dealers and registered as investment advisors. 

Increasing Productivity of Existing Advisor Base 

We believe that the productivity of our advisors will increase over time as we continue to develop solutions designed to enable them to add new clients, manage more of their clients&#8217; investable assets, and expand their existing practices with additional advisors. We can facilitate these productivity improvements by helping our advisors better manage their practices in an increasingly complex external environment, which we believe will result in assets per advisor growing over time. 

Competition 

We compete with a variety of financial firms to attract and retain experienced and productive advisors: 

&#8226; Within the independent channel, the industry is highly fragmented, comprised primarily of regional firms that rely on third-party custodians and technology providers to support their operations. Competitors in this space include: 

&#9702; Commonwealth Financial Network; 

&#9702; Cetera Financial Group; and 

&#9702; Cambridge 

&#8226; The captive wirehouse channel tends to consist of large nationwide firms with multiple lines of business that have a focus on the highly competitive high-net-worth investor market. Competitors in this channel include: 

&#9702; Morgan Stanley; 

&#9702; Bank of America Merrill Lynch; 

&#9702; UBS Financial Services Inc.; and 

&#9702; Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC. 

&#8226; Competition for advisors also includes regional firms, such as Edward D. Jones &#38; Co., L.P. and Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. 

&#8226; Independent RIA firms, which are registered with the SEC or though their respective states' investment advisory regulator and not through a broker-dealer, may choose from a number of third-party firms to provide custodial services. Our significant competitors in this space include: 

&#9702; Charles Schwab &#38; Co.; 

&#9702; Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC; and 

&#9702; TD Ameritrade. 

Those competitors that do not offer a complete clearing solution for advisors are frequently supported by third-party clearing and custody oriented firms. Pershing LLC, a subsidiary of Bank of New York Mellon, National 

&#32;9 

Financial Services LLC, a subsidiary of Fidelity Investments, and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp., a subsidiary of J.P. Morgan Chase &#38; Co., offer custodial services and technology solutions to independent firms and RIAs that are not self-clearing. These clearing firms and their affiliates and other providers also offer an array of service, technology and reporting tools. Albridge Solutions, a subsidiary of Bank of New York Mellon, Advent Software, Inc., Envestnet, Inc., and Morningstar, Inc., provide an array of research, analytics and reporting solutions. 

Our advisors compete for clients with financial advisors of brokerage firms, banks, insurance companies, asset management, and investment advisory firms. In addition, they also compete with a number of firms offering direct to investor on-line financial services and discount brokerage services, such as Charles Schwab &#38; Co. and Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 3,410 &#32;full-time employees. None of our employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements governing their employment with us. We build deep expertise by attracting talented employees from a variety of fields and developing that talent into future leaders of our business and our industry. Our value proposition is delivered by a caring team that is grounded by a decades-old creed, which expresses our commitment to delivering super service to advisors. Our continued growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to be an employer of choice and an organization that recruits and retains talented employees who best fit our culture and business needs. We offer ongoing learning opportunities and programs that empower employees to grow in their professional development and careers. We provide comprehensive compensation and benefits packages, as well as financial education tools to assist our employees as they plan for their future. We give back to our local communities, encourage sustainability in our workplace, and embrace diversity and inclusion to appreciate the unique perspective and value that each of our employees brings based on their personal experiences. Through these initiatives, we work to help all employees be engaged and empowered. Our entrepreneurial heritage, the talent and commitment of our people, and the excellence of our advisors push us to innovate and meet the challenges of the future head on. 

Regulation 

The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal, state, and international government agencies as well as various self-regulatory organizations. We take an active leadership role in the development of the rules and regulations that govern our industry. We have been investing in our compliance functions to monitor our adherence to the numerous legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business. 

Broker-Dealer Regulation 

LPL Financial is a broker-dealer registered with the SEC, a member of FINRA and various other self-regulatory organizations, and a participant in various clearing organizations including the Depository Trust Company, the National Securities Clearing Corporation, and the Options Clearing Corporation. LPL Financial is registered as a broker-dealer in each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 

Broker-dealers are subject to rules and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of clients&#8217; funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping and reporting, and the conduct of directors, officers, and employees. Broker-dealers are also regulated by state securities administrators in those jurisdictions where they do business. Compliance with many of the rules and regulations applicable to us involves a number of risks because rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations, among other reasons. Regulators make periodic examinations and review annual, monthly, and other reports on our operations, track record, and financial condition. Violations of rules and regulations governing a broker-dealer&#8217;s actions could result in censure, penalties and fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, the restriction, suspension, or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer, its financial advisor(s) or its officers or employees, or other similar adverse consequences. The rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which are enforced by the SEC and FINRA, apply to the municipal securities activities of LPL Financial. 

Our margin lending is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board&#8217;s restrictions on lending in connection with client purchases and short sales of securities, and FINRA rules also require our subsidiaries to impose maintenance requirements based on the value of securities contained in margin accounts. In many cases, our margin policies are more stringent than these rules. 

&#32;10 

Significant new rules and regulations continue to arise as a result of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;), which was enacted in July 2010. Provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that may affect our business include, but are not limited to, the potential implementation of a more stringent fiduciary standard for broker-dealers and the potential establishment of a new self-regulatory organization for investment advisors. Compliance with these provisions would likely result in increased costs. Moreover, to the extent the Dodd-Frank Act affects the operations, financial condition, liquidity, and capital requirements of financial institutions with whom we do business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. The ultimate impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on us, the financial industry, and the economy cannot be known until all applicable regulations called for under the Dodd-Frank Act have been finalized and implemented. 

Investment Advisor Regulation 

As investment advisors registered with the SEC, our subsidiaries LPL Financial, Fortigent, LLC, and IAG are subject to the requirements of the Advisers Act, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, including examination by the SEC&#8217;s staff. Such requirements relate to, among other things, fiduciary duties to clients, performance fees, maintaining an effective compliance program, solicitation arrangements, conflicts of interest, advertising, limitations on agency cross and principal transactions between the advisor and advisory clients, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, and general anti-fraud provisions. 

The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment advisor&#8217;s registration. Investment advisors also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the Advisers Act or other federal and state securities laws and regulations could result in investigations, sanctions, profit disgorgement, fines or other similar consequences. 

Retirement Plan Services Regulation 

Certain of our subsidiaries, including LPL Financial, PTC, IAG, and LPLIA, are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA") and Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), and to regulations promulgated under ERISA or the Code, insofar as they provide services with respect to plan clients, or otherwise deal with plan clients that are subject to ERISA or the Code. ERISA imposes certain duties on persons who are "fiduciaries" (as defined in Section 3(21) of ERISA) and prohibits certain transactions involving plans subject to ERISA and fiduciaries or other service providers to such plans. Non-compliance with these provisions may expose an ERISA fiduciary or other service provider to liability under ERISA, which may include monetary penalties as well as equitable remedies for the affected plan. Section 4975 of the Code prohibits certain transactions involving plans (as defined in Section 4975(e)(1), which includes individual retirement accounts and Keogh plans) and service providers, including fiduciaries, to such plans. Section 4975 imposes excise taxes for violations of these prohibitions. The U.S. Department of Labor has issued a proposed rule: "Definition of the Term "Fiduciary"; Conflict of Interest Rule -- Retirement Investment Advice," related to prohibited transaction exemptions, and amendments to certain existing exemptions, that, if adopted, could impose new requirements on our various business offerings, particularly in respect of certain products and services provided in connection with IRAs and retirement plans. As with provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act discussed above, the extent of its effect on us and the broader financial industry cannot be known until a final rule, if any, is adopted. Please consult the Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment section within Part I, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for more information about the risks associated with future regulations and their potential impact on our operations. 

Commodities and Futures Regulation 

LPL Financial is registered as an introducing broker with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (&#8220;CFTC&#8221;) and is a member of the National Futures Association (&#8220;NFA&#8221;). LPL Financial introduces commodities and futures products to ADM Investor Services, Inc. (&#8220;ADM&#8221;), and all commodities accounts and related client positions are held by ADM. LPL Financial is regulated by the CFTC and NFA. Violations of the rules of the CFTC and the NFA could result in remedial actions including fines, registration terminations, or revocations of exchange memberships. 

Trust Regulation 

Through our subsidiary, PTC, we offer trust, investment management oversight and custodial services for estates and families. PTC is chartered as a non-depository national banking association. As a limited purpose national bank, PTC is regulated and regularly examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;). PTC files reports with the OCC within 30 days after the conclusion of each calendar quarter. Because the powers of 

&#32;11 

PTC are limited to providing fiduciary services and investment advice, it does not have the power or authority to accept deposits or make loans. For this reason, trust assets under PTC&#8217;s management are not insured by the FDIC. 

Because of its limited purpose, PTC is not a &#8220;bank&#8221; as defined under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. Consequently, neither its immediate parent, PTC Holdings, Inc., nor its ultimate parent, LPLFH, is regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as a bank holding company. However, PTC is subject to regulation by the OCC and to various laws and regulations enforced by the OCC, such as capital adequacy, change of control restrictions and regulations governing fiduciary duties, conflicts of interest, self-dealing, and anti-money laundering. For example, the Change in Bank Control Act, as implemented by OCC supervisory policy, imposes restrictions on parties who wish to acquire a controlling interest in a limited purpose national bank such as PTC or the holding company of a limited purpose national bank such as LPL Financial Holdings Inc. In general, an acquisition of 10% or more of our common stock, or another acquisition of &#8220;control&#8221; as defined in OCC regulations, may require OCC approval. These laws and regulations are designed to serve specific bank regulatory and supervisory purposes and are not meant for the protection of PTC, LPL Financial, or their stockholders. 

Regulatory Capital 

The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, and NFA have stringent rules and regulations with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by regulated entities. Generally, a broker-dealer&#8217;s net capital is calculated as net worth plus qualified subordinated debt less deductions for certain types of assets. The net capital rule under the Exchange Act requires that at least a minimum part of a broker-dealer&#8217;s assets be maintained in a relatively liquid form. LPL Financial is also subject to the NFA ' s financial requirements and is required to maintain net capital that is in excess of or equal to the greatest of the NFA's minimum financial requirements. Under these requirements, LPL Financial is currently required to maintain minimum net capital that is in excess of or equal to the minimum net capital calculated and required pursuant to the SEC ' s Uniform Net Capital Rule. 

The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, and NFA impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria. These broker-dealer capital rules also dictate the ratio of debt to equity in regulatory capital composition, and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. If a broker-dealer fails to maintain the required net capital, it may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the applicable regulatory agency, and suspension or expulsion by these regulators ultimately could lead to the broker-dealer&#8217;s liquidation. Additionally, the net capital rule and certain FINRA rules impose requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital, and that require prior notice to the SEC and FINRA for certain capital withdrawals. LPL Financial, which is subject to net capital rules has been, and currently is, in compliance with those rules and has net capital in excess of the minimum requirements. 

Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions Compliance 

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the &#8220;PATRIOT Act&#8221;) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to broker-dealers, futures commission merchants and other financial services companies. Financial institutions subject to the PATRIOT Act generally must have anti-money laundering procedures in place, monitor for and report suspicious activity, implement specialized employee training programs, designate an anti-money laundering compliance officer, and are audited periodically by an independent party to test the effectiveness of compliance. In addition, sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control prohibit U.S. persons from doing business with blocked persons and entities. We have established policies, procedures, and systems designed to comply with these regulations. 

Security and Privacy 

Regulatory activity in the areas of privacy and data protection continues to grow worldwide and is generally being driven by the growth of technology and related concerns about the rapid and widespread dissemination and use of information. To the extent they are applicable to us, we must comply with these federal and state information-related laws and regulations, including, for example, those in the United States, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, SEC Regulation S-P, the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, and Regulation S-ID. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

Our revenues for the periods presented were derived from our operations in the United States. 

&#32;12 

Trademarks 

Access Overlay &#174; , BranchNet &#174; , DO IT SMARTER &#174; , Fortigent &#174; , LPL &#174; , LPL Career Match &#174; , LPL Financial (&#38; Design) &#174; , LPL Partners Program &#174; , Manager Access Network &#174; , Manager Access Select &#174; , and OMP &#174; &#32;are our registered trademarks. ClientWorks, SponsorWorks, and THE PRIVATE TRUST COMPANY, N.A. (&#38; Design) are among our service marks. 

