 Item 1. Business . 

1ST SOURCE CORPORATION 

1st Source Corporation, an Indiana corporation incorporated in 1971, is a bank holding company headquartered in South Bend, Indiana that provides, through its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as &#8220;1st Source&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, and &#8220;our&#8221;), a broad array of financial products and services. 1st Source Bank (&#8220;Bank&#8221;), its banking subsidiary, offers commercial and consumer banking services, trust and investment management services, and insurance to individual and business clients through most of our 81 banking center locations in 17 counties in Indiana and Michigan. 1st Source Bank&#8217;s Specialty Finance Group, with 22 locations nationwide, offers specialized financing services for new and used private and cargo aircraft, automobiles and light trucks for leasing and rental agencies, medium and heavy duty trucks and construction equipment. While our lending portfolio is concentrated in certain equipment types, we serve a diverse client base. We are not dependent upon any single industry or client. At December 31, 2015 , we had consolidated total assets of $5.19 billion, total loans and leases of $3.99 billion, total deposits of $4.14 billion, and total shareholders&#8217; equity of $644.05 million. 

Our principal executive office is located at 100 North Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana 46601 and our telephone number is (574) 235-2000. Access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports is available, free of charge, at www.1stsource.com soon after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 

1ST SOURCE BANK 

1st Source Bank is a wholly owned subsidiary of 1st Source Corporation that offers a broad range of consumer and commercial banking services through its lending operations, retail branches, and fee based businesses. 

Commercial, Agricultural, and Real Estate Loans &#32;&#8212; 1st Source Bank provides commercial, small business, agricultural, and real estate loans to primarily privately owned business clients mainly located within our regional market area. Loans are made for a wide variety of general corporate purposes, including financing for industrial and commercial properties, financing for equipment, inventories and accounts receivable, and acquisition financing. Other services include commercial leasing, treasury management services and retirement planning services. 

Consumer Services &#32;&#8212; 1st Source Bank provides a full range of consumer banking products and services through our banking centers and at 1stsource.com. In a number of our markets 1st Source also offers insurance products through 1st Source Insurance offices. The traditional banking services include checking and savings accounts, certificates of deposits and Individual Retirement Accounts. 1st Source offers a full line of on-line and mobile banking products which includes bill payment. As an added convenience, a strategically located Automated Teller Machine network serves our customers and supports the debit and credit card programs of the bank. Consumers also have the ability to obtain consumer loans, real estate loans and lines of credit in any of our banking centers or on-line. Finally, 1st Source offers a variety of financial planning, financial literacy and other consultative services to our customers. 

Trust Services &#32;&#8212; 1st Source Bank provides a wide range of trust, investment, agency, and custodial services for individual, corporate, and not-for-profit clients. These services include the administration of estates and personal trusts, as well as the management of investment accounts for individuals, employee benefit plans, and charitable foundations. 

Specialty Finance Group Services &#32;&#8212; 1st Source Bank, through its Specialty Finance Group, provides a broad range of comprehensive equipment loan and lease finance products addressing the financing needs of a broad array of companies. This group can be broken down into four areas: new and used aircraft; auto and light trucks; construction equipment; and medium and heavy duty trucks. 

Aircraft financing consists of financings for new and used general aviation aircraft (including helicopters) for private and corporate aircraft users, aircraft distributors and dealers, air charter operators, air cargo carriers, and other aircraft operators. We have for many years, on a limited and selective basis, provided international aircraft financing, primarily in Mexico and Brazil. Aircraft finance receivables generally range from $500,000 to $25 million with fixed or variable interest rates and terms of one to ten years. 

The auto and light truck division (including specialty vehicles such as shuttle buses, step vans, motor coach's and funeral cars) consists of fleet financings to automobile rental and leasing companies, light truck rental and leasing companies, and single to fleet financing for users of special purpose vehicles. The auto and light truck finance receivables generally range from $100,000 to $20 million with fixed or variable interest rates and terms of one to five years. 

Construction equipment financing includes financing of equipment (i.e., asphalt and concrete plants, bulldozers, excavators, cranes, loaders, and trash and recycling equipment, etc.) to the construction industry. Construction equipment finance receivables generally range from $50,000 to $15 million with fixed or variable interest rates and terms of one to seven years. 

The medium and heavy duty truck division provides fleet financing for highway tractors and trailers and delivery trucks to the commercial trucking industry. Medium and heavy duty truck finance receivables generally range from $500,000 to $15 million with fixed or variable interest rates and terms of three to seven years. 

We also generate equipment rental income through the leasing of construction equipment, medium and heavy duty trucks, automobiles, and other equipment to clients through operating leases. 

SPECIALTY FINANCE GROUP SUBSIDIARIES 

The Specialty Finance Group also consists of separate wholly owned subsidiaries of 1st Source Bank which include: Michigan Transportation Finance Corporation, 1st Source Specialty Finance, Inc., SFG Aircraft, Inc., 1st Source Intermediate Holding, LLC, SFG Commercial Aircraft Leasing, Inc., and SFG Equipment Leasing Corporation I. 

1ST SOURCE INSURANCE, INC. 

1st Source Insurance, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of 1st Source Bank that provides insurance products and services to individuals and businesses covering corporate and personal property, casualty insurance, and individual and group health and life insurance. 1st Source Insurance, Inc. has ten offices. 

1ST SOURCE CORPORATION INVESTMENT ADVISORS, INC. 

1st Source Corporation Investment Advisors, Inc. (Investment Advisors) is a wholly owned subsidiary of 1st Source Bank that provides investment advisory services for trust and investment clients of 1st Source Bank and to Wasatch Advisors, Inc., the investment advisor of the Wasatch Mutual Fund family. Investment Advisors is registered as an investment advisor with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940. Investment Advisors serves strictly in an advisory capacity and, as such, does not hold any client securities. 

OTHER CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES 

We have other subsidiaries that are not significant to the consolidated entity. 

1ST SOURCE MASTER TRUST 

Our unconsolidated subsidiary includes 1st Source Master Trust. This subsidiary was created for the purpose of issuing $57.00 million of trust preferred securities and lending the proceeds to 1st Source. We guarantee, on a limited basis, payments of distributions on the trust preferred securities and payments on redemption of the trust preferred securities. 

COMPETITION 

The activities in which we and the Bank engage in are highly competitive. Our businesses and the geographic markets we serve require us to compete with other banks, some of which are affiliated with large bank holding companies headquartered outside of our principal market. We generally compete on the basis of client service and responsiveness to client needs, available loan and deposit products, the rates of interest charged on loans and leases, the rates of interest paid for funds, other credit and service charges, the quality of services rendered, the convenience of banking facilities, and in the case of loans and leases to large commercial borrowers, relative lending limits. 

In addition to competing with other banks within our primary service areas, the Bank also competes with other financial service companies, such as credit unions, industrial loan associations, securities firms, insurance companies, small loan companies, finance companies, mortgage companies, real estate investment trusts, certain governmental agencies, credit organizations, and other enterprises. 

Additional competition for depositors&#8217; funds comes from United States Government securities, private issuers of debt obligations, and suppliers of other investment alternatives for depositors. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive Federal and State regulations that govern bank holding companies and banks. Such non-bank competitors may, as a result, have certain advantages over us in providing some services. 

We compete against these financial institutions by being convenient to do business with, and by taking the time to listen and understand our clients&#8217; needs. We deliver personalized, one-on-one banking through knowledgeable local members of the community always keeping the clients' best interest in mind while offering a full array of products and highly personalized services. We rely on our history and our reputation in northern Indiana dating back to 1863. 

EMPLOYEES 

At December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 1,150 employees on a full-time equivalent basis. We provide a wide range of employee benefits and consider employee relations to be good. 

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION 

General &#32;&#8212; 1st Source and the Bank are extensively regulated under Federal and State law. To the extent that the following information describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions. Any change in applicable laws or regulations may have a material effect on our business and our prospective business. Our operations may be affected by legislative changes and by the policies of various regulatory authorities. We are unable to predict the nature or the extent of the effects on our business and earnings that fiscal or monetary policies, economic controls, or new Federal or State legislation may have in the future. 

We are a registered bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHCA), and, as such, we are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). We are required to file annual reports with the Federal Reserve and to provide the Federal Reserve such additional information as it may require. 

The Bank, as an Indiana state bank and member of the Federal Reserve System, is supervised by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions (DFI) and the Federal Reserve. As such, 1st Source Bank is regularly examined by and subject to regulations promulgated by the DFI and the Federal Reserve. Because the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) provides deposit insurance to the Bank, we are also subject to supervision and regulation by the FDIC (even though the FDIC is not our primary Federal regulator). 

Bank Holding Company Act &#32;&#8212; Under the BHCA our activities are limited to business so closely related to banking, managing, or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. We are also subject to capital requirements applied on a consolidated basis in a form substantially similar to those required of the Bank. The BHCA also requires a bank holding company to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve before (i) acquiring, or holding more than 5% voting interest in any bank or bank holding company, (ii) acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of another bank or bank holding company, or (iii) merging or consolidating with another bank holding company. 

The BHCA also restricts non-bank activities to those which, by statute or by Federal Reserve regulation or order, have been identified as activities closely related to the business of banking or of managing or controlling banks. As discussed below, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA), which was enacted in 1999, established a new type of bank holding company known as a &#8220;financial holding company&#8221; that has powers that are not otherwise available to bank holding companies. 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 &#32;&#8212; The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA) was adopted to address a wide variety of banking issues. In general, FDICIA provided for the recapitalization of the former Bank Insurance Fund, deposit insurance reform, including the implementation of risk-based deposit insurance premiums, the establishment of five capital levels for financial institutions (&#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221;) that would impose more scrutiny and restrictions on less capitalized institutions, along with a number of other supervisory and regulatory issues. At December 31, 2015, the Bank was categorized as &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; meaning that our total risk-based capital ratio exceeded 10.00%, our Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio exceeded 8.00%, our common equity Tier-1 risk-based capital ratio exceeded 6.50%, our leverage ratio exceeded 5.00%, and we are not subject to a regulatory order, agreement, or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 

FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessments &#32;&#8212;The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, changes how the FDIC calculates deposit insurance premiums payable by insured depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act directs the FDIC to calculate the deposit insurance assessments payable by each insured depository institution based generally upon the institution&#8217;s average total consolidated assets minus its average tangible equity during the assessment period. Previously, an institution's assessments were based on the amount of its insured deposits. The minimum deposit insurance fund rate will increase from 1.15% to 1.35% by September 30, 2020, and the cost of the increase will be borne by depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also provides the FDIC with discretion to determine whether to pay rebates to insured depository institutions when its deposit insurance reserves exceed certain thresholds. Previously, the FDIC was required to give rebates to depository institutions equal to the excess once the reserve ratio exceeded 1.50%, and was required to rebate 50% of the excess over 1.35% but not more than 1.5% of insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a final rule on February 7, 2011 that implements these provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. 

Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 &#32;&#8212; The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), among other things, temporarily increased the standard maximum deposit insurance amount from $100,000 to $250,000. This temporary increase in the scope of deposit insurance coverage was originally set to expire on December 31, 2013, but the Dodd-Frank Act made this temporary increase permanent. Under the Troubled Asset Relief Program established by EESA, the U.S. Treasury Department (Treasury) announced a Capital Purchase Program (CPP). CPP was designed to encourage U.S. financial institutions to build capital to increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and support the U.S. economy. Under the program, Treasury could purchase up to $250 billion of senior preferred shares on standardized terms as described in the program&#8217;s term sheet. The program was available to qualifying U.S. controlled banks, savings associations, and certain bank and savings and loan holding companies engaged only in financial activities that timely submitted applications to Treasury. EESA provided for Treasury to determine an applicant&#8217;s eligibility to participate in the CPP after consulting with the appropriate federal banking agency. 

Treasury approved 1st Source's application to participate in the CPP and on January 23, 2009, 1st Source issued to Treasury pursuant to the CPP preferred stock valued at $111.00 million and a warrant to acquire 837,947 shares of its common stock. The warrant was exercisable at any time during the ten-year period following issuance at an exercise price of $19.87 per share. On December 29, 2010, 1st Source redeemed all of the preferred stock issued to the Treasury under CPP for $111.68 million, which included accrued and unpaid dividends payable to Treasury on the preferred stock. On March 8, 2011, 1st Source repurchased the common stock warrant for $3.75 million. 

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and The NASDAQ Stock Market (NASDAQ) &#32;&#8212; We are under the jurisdiction of the SEC and certain state securities commissions for matters relating to the offering and sale of our securities and our investment advisory services. We are subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as administered by the SEC. We are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the trading symbol &#8220;SRCE,&#8221; and we are subject to the rules of NASDAQ for listed companies. 

Interstate Branching &#32;&#8212; Congress enacted the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (Interstate Act) to allow bank holding companies to expand, by acquiring existing banks, into all states, even those which had theretofore restricted entry. The legislation also authorized a bank to open de novo branches in other states, but only to the extent that the law of the bank&#8217;s home state, as well as the law of the state where the branch was to be located, permitted an out-of-state bank to open a de novo branch. The Interstate Act also authorized, subject to future action by individual states, a bank holding company to convert its subsidiary banks located in different states under a single charter. 

The Dodd-Frank Act amended the Interstate Act by expanding the authority of a state or national bank to open offices in other states. A state or national bank may now open a de novo branch in another state if the law of the state where the branch is to be located would permit a state bank chartered by that state to open the branch. This amendment repealed the restriction under the Interstate Act that permitted an out-of-state bank to open a de novo branch in another state only if the bank&#8217;s home state and the state where the branch was to be located had each enacted reciprocal de novo interstate branching laws. 

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 &#32;&#8212; The GLBA is intended to modernize the banking industry by removing barriers to affiliation among banks, insurance companies, the securities industry, and other financial service providers. It provides financial organizations with the flexibility of structuring such affiliations through a holding company structure or through a financial subsidiary of a bank, subject to certain limitations. The GLBA establishes a new type of bank holding company, known as a financial holding company, which may engage in an expanded list of activities that are &#8220;financial in nature,&#8221; which include securities and insurance brokerage, securities underwriting, insurance underwriting, and merchant banking. The GLBA also sets forth a system of functional regulation that makes the Federal Reserve the &#8220;umbrella supervisor&#8221; for holding companies, while providing for the supervision of the holding company&#8217;s subsidiaries by other Federal and state agencies. A bank holding company may not become a financial holding company if any of its subsidiary financial institutions are not well-capitalized or well-managed. Further, each bank subsidiary of the holding company must have received at least a satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating. The GLBA also expands the types of financial activities a national bank may conduct through a financial subsidiary, addresses state regulation of insurance, generally prohibits unitary thrift holding companies organized after May 4, 1999 from participating in new activities that are not financial in nature, provides privacy protection for nonpublic customer information of financial institutions, modernizes the Federal Home Loan Bank system, and makes miscellaneous regulatory improvements. The Federal Reserve and the Secretary of the Treasury must coordinate their supervision regarding approval of new financial activities to be conducted through a financial holding company or through a financial subsidiary of a bank. While the provisions of the GLBA regarding activities that may be conducted through a financial subsidiary directly apply only to national banks, those provisions indirectly apply to state-chartered banks. In addition, the Bank is subject to other provisions of the GLBA, including those relating to CRA and privacy, regardless of whether we elect to become a financial holding company or to conduct activities through a financial subsidiary. We do not currently intend to file notice with the Board to become a financial holding company or to engage in expanded financial activities through a financial subsidiary. 

Financial Privacy &#32;&#8212; In accordance with the GLBA, Federal banking regulators adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about customers to nonaffiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated third party. The privacy provisions of the GLBA affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. We are also subject to various state laws that generally require us to notify any customer whose personal financial information may have been released to an unauthorized person as the result of a breach of our data security policies and procedures. 

USA Patriot Act of 2001 &#32;&#8212; The USA Patriot Act of 2001 (USA Patriot Act) was signed into law following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The USA Patriot Act is comprehensive anti-terrorism legislation that, among other things, substantially broadened the scope of anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations on financial institutions. 

The regulations adopted by the Treasury under the USA Patriot Act require financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering, and terrorist financing. Additionally, the regulations require that we, upon request from the appropriate Federal regulatory agency, provide records related to anti-money laundering, perform due diligence of private banking and correspondent accounts, establish standards for verifying customer identity, and perform other related duties. 

Failure of a financial institution to comply with the USA Patriot Act&#8217;s requirements could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. 

Regulations Governing Capital Adequacy &#32;&#8212; The Federal bank regulatory agencies use capital adequacy guidelines in their examination and regulation of bank holding companies and banks. If capital falls below the minimum levels established by these guidelines, a bank holding company or bank will be required to submit an acceptable plan for achieving compliance with the capital guidelines and will be subject to denial of applications and appropriate supervisory enforcement actions. The various regulatory capital requirements that we are subject to are disclosed in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#8212; Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Community Reinvestment Act &#32;&#8212; The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 requires that, in connection with examinations of financial institutions within their jurisdiction, the Federal banking regulators must evaluate the record of the financial institutions in meeting the credit needs of their local communities, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of those banks. Federal banking regulators are required to consider a financial institution&#8217;s performance in these areas as they review applications filed by the institution to engage in mergers or acquisitions or to open a branch or facility. 

Regulations Governing Extensions of Credit &#32;&#8212; The Bank is subject to certain restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Act on extensions of credit to 1st Source or our subsidiaries, or investments in our securities and on the use of our securities as collateral for loans to any borrowers. These regulations and restrictions may limit our ability to obtain funds from the Bank for our cash needs, including funds for acquisitions and for payment of dividends, interest and operating expenses. Further, the BHCA, certain regulations of the Federal Reserve, state laws and many other Federal laws govern the extensions of credit and generally prohibit a bank from extending credit, engaging in a lease or sale of property, or furnishing services to a customer on the condition that the customer obtain additional services from the bank&#8217;s holding company or from one of its subsidiaries. 

The Bank is also subject to certain restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Act on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, principal shareholders, or any related interest of such persons. Extensions of credit (i) must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, and subject to credit underwriting procedures that are at least as stringent as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non affiliates, and (ii) must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. The Bank is also subject to certain lending limits and restrictions on overdrafts to such persons. 

Reserve Requirements &#32;&#8212; The Federal Reserve requires all depository institutions to maintain reserves against their transaction account deposits. For 2016, the Bank must maintain reserves of 3.00% against net transaction accounts greater than $15.20 million and up to $110.20 million (subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve) and reserves of 10.00% must be maintained against that portion of net transaction accounts in excess of $110.20 million. These amounts are indexed to inflation and adjusted annually by the Federal Reserve. 

Dividends &#32;&#8212; The ability of the Bank to pay dividends is limited by state and Federal laws and regulations that require the Bank to obtain the prior approval of the DFI and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago before paying a dividend that, together with other dividends it has paid during a calendar year, would exceed the sum of its net income for the year to date combined with its retained net income for the previous two years. The amount of dividends the Bank may pay may also be limited by certain covenant agreements and by the principles of prudent bank management. See Part II, Item 5, Market for Registrant&#8217;s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for further discussion of dividend limitations. 

Monetary Policy and Economic Control &#32;&#8212; The commercial banking business in which we engage is affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve. Changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowing, availability of borrowing at the &#8220;discount window,&#8221; open market operations, the imposition of changes in reserve requirements against member banks&#8217; deposits and assets of foreign branches, and the imposition of, and changes in, reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates are some of the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve. These monetary policies are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distributions of bank loans, investments, and deposits, and such use may affect interest rates charged on loans and leases or paid on deposits. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks and are expected to do so in the future. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve are influenced by various factors, including economic growth, inflation, unemployment, short-term and long-term changes in the international trade balance, and in the fiscal policies of the U.S. Government. Future monetary policies and the effect of such policies on our future business and earnings, and the effect on the future business and earnings of the Bank cannot be predicted. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 &#32;&#8212; The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOA) includes provisions intended to enhance corporate responsibility and protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures pursuant to the securities laws, and which increase penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at public traded companies. The SOA generally applies to all companies that file or are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act. 

Among other things, the SOA creates the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as an independent body subject to SEC supervision with responsibility for setting auditing, quality control, and ethical standards for auditors of public companies. The SOA also requires public companies to make faster and more-extensive financial disclosures, requires the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of public companies to provide signed certifications as to the accuracy and completeness of financial information filed with the SEC, and provides enhanced criminal and civil penalties for violations of the Federal securities laws. 

The SOA also addresses functions and responsibilities of audit committees of public companies. The statute, by mandating certain stock exchange listing rules, makes the audit committee directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, and oversight of the work of the company&#8217;s outside auditor, and requires the auditor to report directly to the audit committee. The SOA authorizes each audit committee to engage independent counsel and other advisors, and requires a public company to provide the appropriate funding, as determined by its audit committee, to pay the company&#8217;s auditors and any advisors that its audit committee retains. The SOA also requires public companies to prepare an internal control report and assessment by management, along with an attestation to this report prepared by the company&#8217;s independent registered public accounting firm, in their annual reports to stockholders. 

Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act &#32;&#8212; The Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (S.A.F.E. Act) establishes a nationwide licensing and registration system for mortgage loan originators. The S.A.F.E. Act requires an employee of a bank, savings association or credit union and certain of their subsidiaries that are regulated by a federal banking agency (agency-regulated institutions) who acts as a residential mortgage loan originator to register with the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry (NMLS), obtain a unique identifier, and maintain this registration. 

The federal banking agencies adopted a final rule in 2010 to implement these provisions. The final rule requires, among other things, that a loan originator submit to the NMLS certain information concerning his or her personal history and experience, undergo an FBI criminal background check, and authorize the NMLS to obtain information related to any administrative, civil, or criminal findings by any governmental agency regarding the loan originator. 

Consumer Financial Protection Laws &#8212; The Bank is subject to a number of federal and state consumer financial protection laws and regulations that extensively govern its transactions with consumers. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and the Service Members Civil Relief Act. 1st Source Bank must also comply with applicable state usury laws and other laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive acts and practices. These laws, among other things, require disclosures of the cost of credit and the terms of deposit accounts, prohibit discrimination in credit transactions, regulate the use of credit report information, restrict the Bank's ability to raise interest rates and subject the Bank to substantial regulatory oversight. Violations of these laws may expose us to liability from potential lawsuits brought by affected customers. Federal bank regulators, state attorneys general and state and local consumer protection agencies may also seek to enforce these consumer financial protection laws, in which case we may be subject to regulatory sanctions, civil money penalties, and customer rescission rights. Failure to comply with these laws may also cause the Federal Reserve or DFI to deny approval of any applications we may file to engage in merger and acquisition transactions with other financial institutions. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act &#32;&#8212; The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law in 2010, significantly changes the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions affecting large and small financial institutions alike, including several provisions that will profoundly affect how community banks, thrifts, and small bank and thrift holding companies will be regulated in the future. Among other things, these provisions abolish the Office of Thrift Supervision and transfer its functions to the other federal banking agencies, relax rules regarding interstate branching, allow financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts, and impose new capital requirements on bank and thrift holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes several corporate governance provisions that apply to all public companies, not just financial institutions. These include provisions mandating certain disclosures regarding executive compensation and provisions addressing proxy access by shareholders. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve. In July 2011, the CFPB assumed primary responsibility for administering substantially all of the consumer compliance regulations, including Regulation Z issued under the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation X issued under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, formerly administered by other federal agencies. The CFPB also has the authority to promulgate consumer protection regulations that will apply to all entities, including banks, that offer consumer financial services or products. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act includes a series of provisions covering mortgage loan origination standards affecting, among other things, originator compensation, minimum repayment standards, and pre-payment penalties. 

The Dodd-Frank Act contains numerous other provisions affecting financial institutions of all types, including some that may affect our business in substantial and unpredictable ways. We have incurred higher operating costs in complying with the Dodd -Frank Act, and we expect that these higher costs will continue for the foreseeable future. Our management continues to monitor the ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and as new regulations are issued, will assess their effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

The Volcker Rule &#8212; The Dodd-Frank act prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and from investing and sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds. The statutory provision implementing these restrictions is commonly called the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; To implement the Volcker Rule, federal regulators issued final rules in December 2013 that were to become effective April 2014. The Federal Reserve subsequently issued an order extending the period that institutions have to conform their activities to the requirements of the Volcker Rule to July 21, 2015, and extended the compliance date for banks to conform their investments in certain &#8220;legacy covered funds&#8221; until July 21, 2016. These final rules exempt the Bank, as a bank with less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets that does not engage in any covered activities other than trading in certain government, agency, state or municipal obligations, from any significant compliance obligations under the Volcker Rule. We are continuing to evaluate the effects of the Volcker Rules on our business, but we do not currently anticipate that the Volcker rule will have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Capital Standards &#32;&#8212; In July 2013, the Federal Reserve and other federal banking agencies approved final rules implementing the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision's capital guidelines for all U.S. banks and for bank holding companies with greater than $500 million in assets. Under these final rules, minimum requirements will increase for both the quantity and quality of capital held by 1st Source and the Bank. The rules include a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, a total capital ratio of 8.0%, and a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%. The final rules also require a common equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets which is in addition to the other minimum risk-based capital standards in the rule. Institutions that do not maintain the required capital buffer will become subject to progressively more stringent limitations on the percentage of earnings that can be paid out in dividends or used for stock repurchases and on the payment of discretionary bonuses to senior executive management. The capital buffer requirement will be phased in over three years beginning in 2016. The capital buffer requirement effectively raises the minimum required common equity Tier 1 capital ratio to 7.0%, the Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5%, and the total capital ratio to 10.5% on a fully phased-in basis. 

The final rules also increase the required capital for certain categories of assets, including higher-risk construction real estate loans and certain exposures related to securitizations. The final rules do not, however, adopt the changes in the proposed rule to the risk weights assigned to certain mortgage loan assets. The final rules instead adopt the risk weights for residential mortgages under the existing general risk-based capital rules, which assign a risk weight of either 50% (for most first-lien exposures) or 100% for other residential mortgage exposures. Similarly, the final rules do not adopt the proposed rule's elimination of Tier 1 treatment of trust preferred securities for banking organizations with less than $15 billion in assets as of December 31, 2010. Instead, the final rules permit these banking organizations to retain non-qualifying Tier 1 capital trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, subject generally to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital. 

These new minimum capital ratios became effective for us on January 1, 2015 and will be fully phased-in on January 1, 2019. Management believes that, as of December 31, 2015, 1st Source and the Bank would meet all capital adequacy requirements under the Basel III Capital Rules on a fully phased-in basis as if such requirements were currently in effect. 

Liquidity Requirements &#8212; Historically, the regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward would be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity's expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other test, referred to as the net stable funding ratio, or NSFR, is designed to promote more medium and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements are expected to incentivize banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source. 

In September 2015, the federal bank regulators approved final rules implementing the LCR for advanced approaches banking organizations ( i.e, . banking organizations with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in total on-balance sheet foreign exposure) and a modified version of the LCR for bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets that are not advanced approach banking organizations, neither of which would apply to 1st Source or the Bank. The federal bank regulators have not yet proposed rules to implement the NSFR, but the Federal Reserve has stated its intent to adopt a version of this measure as well. 

Pending Legislation &#32;&#8212; Because of concerns relating to competitiveness and the safety and soundness of the banking industry, Congress often considers a number of wide-ranging proposals for altering the structure, regulation, and competitive relationships of the nation&#8217;s financial institutions. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposals will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected. 

