 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Amedisys, Inc. is a leading healthcare at home company, providing outstanding home health, hospice and personal care. We deliver the care that is best for our patients, whether that is home-based recovery and rehabilitation after an operation or injury, care that empowers patients to manage a chronic disease, or hospice care at the end of life. 

We are among the largest, best established and most advanced providers of home health and hospice care in the United States, with 408 care centers in 34 states. Our 16,100 employees deliver the highest quality of care to the doorsteps of patients in need, making more than 7.5 million patient visits to 360,000 patients annually. Over 2,200 hospitals and 61,900 physicians nationwide have chosen us as a partner in post-acute care. 

Amedisys is headquartered in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, with an executive office in Nashville, Tennessee. Our common stock is currently traded on NASDAQ Global Select Market under the trading symbol &#147;AMED&#148;. Founded and incorporated in Louisiana in 1982, Amedisys was reincorporated as a Delaware corporation prior to becoming a publicly traded company in August, 1994. 

The company&#146;s continuous quality improvement efforts show in outcomes and publicly reported quality measures. We&#146;re standardizing our clinical care, streamlining how we operate and partnering as a post-acute care provider to an increasing number of hospitals and health systems across the country. Our mission is nothing less than putting the best clinicians in the home, with the tools needed to provide the best possible care and outcomes. Ultimately, we are in the business of delivering superior value to employees, referral sources, payors &#150; and most of all &#150; patients and their families. 

We are privileged to take care of our patients wherever they call home &#150; a private house, an apartment, a rehabilitation facility or an assisted living community. Our clinicians go behind the scenes to enter otherwise private spaces, caring for patients who feel safe and cared for and for others who are struggling with poverty and dysfunction. We see it all &#150; we get the whole picture of our patients &#150; which enables us to develop and administer the right care plan for each one in conjunctions with primary care physicians and other providers. 

Our services are primarily paid for by Medicare due to the age demographics of our patient base (average age 81). Medicare represented approximately 80% to 84% of our net service revenue over the last three years. We remain focused on maintaining a profitable and strategically important managed care contract portfolio. 

Our Home Health Segment: 

Amedisys Home Health provides experienced, compassionate healthcare to help our patients recover from surgery or illness, live with chronic diseases, and prevent avoidable hospital readmissions. Our care team includes skilled nurses who are trained and certified to administer medications, care for wounds, monitor vital signs and provide a wide range of other nursing services; therapists specialized in physical, speech and occupational therapy; and aides who assist our patients with completing important personal tasks. 

We take an empowering approach to helping our patients and their families understand their condition, how to manage it and how to live life to the fullest with a chronic disease or other health condition. Our professional and compassionate clinicians are trained to understand the whole patient &#150; not just their medical diagnosis. 

This commitment to clinical distinction is evident in our clinical performance measures such as Star Ratings. Amedisys has an average Quality Star Rating of 3.5 and an average Patient Survey Overall Star Rating of 4.4. Our goal is to have all of our care centers achieve a 4.0 Quality Star Rating, and we are implementing targeted action plans to continue to improve the quality of care we deliver for our patients across the country. 

&#160; 

Our Hospice Segment: 

Hospice is a special form of care that is designed to provide comfort and support for those who are dealing with a terminal illness. It is a compassionate form of care that promotes dignity and affirms quality of life for the patient, family members and other loved ones. 

Individuals with a terminal illness such as heart disease, pulmonary disease, Alzheimer&#146;s, HIV/AIDS or cancer may be eligible for hospice care, if they have a life expectancy of six months or less. 

At Amedisys Hospice, our focus is on building and retaining an exceptional team, delivering the highest quality care and service to our patients and their families, and establishing Amedisys as the preferred and preeminent hospice provider in each community we serve. In order to realize these goals, we invest in tailored training, development, and recognition programs for our employees, with specific focus on our clinicians and caregivers. This has led to our team&#146;s consistent achievement at or above the national average in family satisfaction results and quality scores. 

Another element of our approach is our outreach strategy to more fully reach the entire community of eligible patients. These outreach efforts have built our hospice patient population to more accurately represent the causes of death in the communities we serve, with a specific focus on heart disease, lung disease, and dementia in order to address the historical underrepresentation of non-cancer diagnoses. 

By working to accept every patient with a life expectancy of six months or less who wants our compassionate care, we fulfill our hospice mission and strengthen our standing in the community. 

Our Personal Care Segment: 

On March 1, 2016, Amedisys acquired its first private-duty &#150; an important step in executing our strategy of improving the continuity of care our patients receive as their clinical needs change. 

We believe that private duty services are highly synergistic with our core skilled home health and hospice businesses, and that by acquiring these capabilities in one of our most successful regions we will realize these benefits quickly. 

Responding to Changing Regulatory and Reimbursement Environment: 

Effective October 2012, Medicare began to impose a financial penalty on hospitals that have excessive rates of patient readmissions within 30 days after hospital discharge. We believe this regulation provides an opportunity for providers of post-acute care who can demonstrate the ability to maintain or reduce patient acute care hospital readmission rates. We are working to take advantage of this opportunity further improving the quality of care we provide and implementing disease management programs designed to be responsive to the needs of patients served by the hospitals we call upon. 

The passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (&#147;PPACA&#148;) has resulted in several programs being introduced by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (&#147;CMS&#148;) that offer the opportunity to participate in initiatives that align home health providers with hospitals, physicians, managed care payors and other referral sources to coordinate care and/or pilot alternative reimbursement structures. One such program is the CMS Bundled Payments for Care Improvement Initiative (&#147;BPCI&#148;). We participated in a &#147;Model 3 &#150; 90-Day Post-Acute&#148; BPCI bundle across two regions during 2014. This is an at-risk model in which CMS sets a bundle target price based on historical costs. On October 29, 2014, we notified CMS of our plan to withdraw from the two Model 3 bundles. 

In addition to the BPCI program, PPACA introduced Accountable Care Organization (&#147;ACO&#148;) programs. An ACO is a group of doctors, hospitals and other health care providers who come together voluntarily to give 

&#160; 

coordinated high-quality care to Medicare patients. The goal of coordinated care is to ensure that patients, especially the chronically ill, get the right care at the right time, while avoiding unnecessary duplication of services and preventing medical errors. While these programs are presently not material to our business or our financial results, we are currently participating in several ACOs and monitoring their results. 

AMS3/Homecare Homebase Implementation: 

During 2015, we made the strategic decision to discontinue AMS3, our third generation, proprietary operating system, and transition to Homecare Homebase (&#147;HCHB&#148;), a leading home health and hospice platform. As of December 31, 2015, we have 84 care centers on HCHB (44 home health care centers and 40 hospice care centers). We will continue the rollout during 2016, with an anticipated completion date of November 1, 2016. 

Acquisitions: 

On July 24, 2015, we acquired one hospice care center in Tennessee for a total purchase price of $5.8 million. 

On October 2, 2015, we acquired the regulatory assets of home health care center in Georgia for a total purchase price of $0.3 million. 

On December 31, 2015, we acquired Infinity HomeCare (&#147;Infinity&#148;) for a total purchase price of $63 million. Infinity owned and operated 15 home health care centers servicing the state of Florida. 

Financial Information: 

Financial information for our home health and hospice segments can be found in our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our Employees 

As of March 4, 2016, we employed approximately 16,100 employees, consisting of approximately 11,200 home health care employees, 2,600 hospice care employees, 1,500 personal care employees and 800 corporate and divisional support employees. 

Payment for Our Services 

Home Health Medicare 

The Medicare home health benefit is available both for patients who need care following discharge from a hospital and patients who suffer from chronic conditions that require ongoing but intermittent care. As a condition of participation under Medicare, beneficiaries must be homebound (meaning that the beneficiary is unable to leave his/her home without a considerable and taxing effort), require intermittent skilled nursing, physical therapy or speech therapy services, and receive treatment under a plan of care established and periodically reviewed by a physician. Medicare rates are based on the severity of the patient&#146;s condition, his or her service needs and other factors relating to the cost of providing services and supplies, bundled into 60-day episodes of care. An episode starts with the first day a billable visit is performed and ends 60 days later or upon discharge, if earlier. If a patient is still in treatment on the 60 th day, a recertification assessment is undertaken to determine whether the patient needs additional care. If the patient&#146;s physician determines that further care is necessary, another episode begins on the 61 st day (regardless of whether a billable visit is rendered on that day) and ends 60 days later. The first day of a consecutive episode, therefore, is not necessarily the new episode&#146;s first billable visit. 

Annually, the Medicare program base episodic rates are set through federal legislation, as follows: 

&#160;

Period 

&#160; Base episode payment &#160; January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013 

&#160; &#160; 2,138 &#160; January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014 

&#160; &#160; 2,869 &#160; January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015 

&#160; &#160; 2,961 &#160; January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016 

&#160; &#160; 2,965 &#160; &#160; 

Payments can be adjusted for: (a) an outlier payment if our patient&#146;s care was unusually costly (capped at 10% of total reimbursement per provider number); (b) a low utilization payment adjustment (&#147;LUPA&#148;) if the number of visits during the episode was fewer than five; (c) a partial payment if our patient transferred to another provider or we received a patient from another provider before an episode was complete; (d) a payment adjustment based upon the level of therapy services required (with various incremental adjustments made for additional visits, with larger payment increases associated with the sixth, fourteenth and twentieth visit thresholds); (e) a payment adjustment if we are unable to perform periodic therapy assessments; (f) the number of episodes of care provided to a patient, regardless of whether the same home health provider provided care for the entire series of episodes; (g) changes in the base episode payments established by the Medicare program; (h) adjustments to the base episode payments for case mix and geographic wages; and (i) recoveries of overpayments. Medicare can also make various adjustments to payments received if we are unable to produce appropriate billing documentation or acceptable authorizations. In addition, we make adjustments to Medicare revenue if we find that we are unable to obtain appropriate billing documentation, authorizations or face to face documentation. 

Home Health Non-Medicare 

Payments from Medicaid and private insurance carriers are episodic-based rates (60-day episode of care) or per-visit rates depending upon the terms and conditions established with such payors. Episodic-based rates paid by our non-Medicare payors are paid in a similar manner and subject to the same adjustments as discussed above for Medicare; however, these rates can vary based upon negotiated terms. 

Hospice Medicare 

The Medicare hospice benefit is also available to Medicare-eligible patients with terminal illnesses, certified by a physician, where life expectancy is six months or less. Medicare rates are based on standard prospective rates for delivering care over a base 90-day or 60-day period (90-day episodes of care for the first two episodes and 60-day episodes of care for any subsequent episodes). Payments are based on daily rates for each day a beneficiary is enrolled in the hospice benefit. Rates are set based on specific levels of care, are adjusted by a wage index to reflect health care labor costs across the country and are established annually through federal legislation. We make adjustments to Medicare revenue when we find we are unable to obtain appropriate billing documentation, authorizations or face to face documentation and other reasons unrelated to credit risk. The levels of care are routine care, general inpatient care, continuous home care and respite care. Beginning January 1, 2016, CMS has provided for two separate payment rates for routine care: payments for the first 60 days of care and care beyond 60 days. In addition to the two routine rates, beginning January 1, 2016, Medicare is also reimbursing for a service intensity add-on (&#147;SIA&#148;). The SIA is based on visits made in the last seven days of life by a registered nurse (&#147;RN&#148;) or medical social worker (&#147;MSW&#148;) for patients in a routine level of care. 

We bill Medicare for hospice services on a monthly basis and our payments are subject to two fixed annual caps, which are assessed on a provider number basis. Generally, each hospice care center has its own provider number. However, where we have created branch care centers to help our parent care centers serve a geographic location, the parent and branch may have the same provider number. The annual caps per patient, known as hospice caps, are calculated and published by the Medicare fiscal intermediary on an annual basis and cover the twelve month period from November 1 through October 31. The caps can be subject to annual and retroactive adjustments, which can cause providers to be required to reimburse the Medicare program if such caps are exceeded. 

The two caps are detailed below: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Inpatient Cap. When we provide hospice care on an inpatient basis, the payments that we are entitled to receive at the higher inpatient reimbursement rate are subject to a cap. This cap limits the number of days that are paid at the inpatient care rate (both respite and general) under a provider number to 20% of the total number of days of hospice care (both inpatient and in-home) that is furnished to all Medicare patients served by the provider. The daily Medicare payment rate for any inpatient days of service that exceed the cap is at the routine home care rate, and the provider is required to reimburse Medicare for any amounts it receives in excess of the cap; and 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Overall Payment Cap. This cap is calculated by the Medicare fiscal intermediary at the end of each hospice cap period to determine the maximum allowable payments per provider number. We estimate our potential cap exposure using information available for both inpatient day limits as well as per beneficiary cap amounts. The total cap amount for each provider is calculated by multiplying the number of beneficiaries electing hospice care during the period by a statutory amount that is indexed for inflation. 

Our ability to stay within these limitations depends on a number of factors, each determined on a provider number basis, including the average length of stay and mix in level of care. 

Hospice Non-Medicare 

Non-Medicare payors pay at rates different from established Medicare rates for hospice services, which are based on separate, negotiated agreements. We bill and are paid by these non-Medicare payors based on such negotiated agreements. 

Controls over Our Business System Infrastructure 

We establish and maintain processes and controls over coding, clinical operations, billing, patient recertifications and compliance to help monitor and promote compliance with Medicare requirements. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Coding &#150; Specified diagnosis codes are assigned to each of our patients based on their particular health condition and ailment (such as diabetes, coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure). Because coding regulations are complex and are subject to frequent change, we maintain controls surrounding our coding process. In order to reduce associated risk of coding failures, we provide coding training and annual update training to clinical assessment managers; provide coding training during orientation for new employees; provide monthly specialized coding education; obtain outside expert coding instruction; utilize coding software in our POC system; and have automated coding edits based on pre-defined compliance metrics in our POC system. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Clinical Operations &#150; Regulatory requirements allow patients to be admitted to home health care if they are considered homebound and require certain clinical services. These clinical services include: educating the patient about their disease; assessment and observation of disease status; delivery of clinical skills such as wound care; administration of injections or intravenous fluids; and management and evaluation of a patient&#146;s plan of care. In order to help monitor and promote compliance with regulatory requirements, we complete audits of patient charts; administer survey guideline education; hold recurrent homecare regulatory education; utilize outside expert regulatory services; and have a toll-free hotline to offer additional assistance. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Billing &#150; We maintain controls over our billing processes to help promote accurate and complete billing. In order to promote the accuracy and completeness of our billing, we have annual billing compliance testing; use formalized billing attestations; limit access to billing systems; hold weekly operational meetings; use automated daily billing operational indicators; and take prompt corrective action with employees who knowingly fail to follow our billing policies and procedures in accordance with a well-publicized &#147;Zero Tolerance Policy&#148;. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Patient Recertification &#150; In order to be recertified for an additional episode of care, a patient must continue to meet qualifying criteria and have a continuing medical need. This could be caused by changes in the patient&#146;s condition requiring changes to the patient&#146;s medical regimen or modified care protocols within the episode of care. The patient&#146;s progress towards goals is evaluated prior to recertification. As with the initial episode of care, a recertification requires orders from the patient&#146;s physician. Before any employee recommends recertification to a physician, we conduct a care center level, multidisciplinary care team conference. We also monitor centralized automated compliance recertification metrics to identify, monitor, and, where we deem appropriate, audit care centers that have relatively high recertification levels. 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Compliance &#150; The quality and reputation of our personnel and operations are critical to our success. We develop, implement and maintain ethics, compliance and quality improvement programs as a component of the centralized corporate services provided to our home health and hospice care centers. Our ethics and compliance program includes a Code of Ethical Business Conduct for our employees, officers, directors and affiliates and a process for reporting regulatory or ethical concerns to our Chief Compliance Officer through a confidential hotline, which is augmented by exit interviews of departing employees and monthly interviews with randomly-selected, current employees. We promote a culture of compliance within our company through persistent messages from our senior leadership to our employees stressing the importance of strict compliance with legal requirements and company policies and procedures. We also employ a comprehensive compliance training program that includes mandatory compliance training and testing for all new employees upon hire and annually for all staff thereafter. In addition to our compliance training, we also conduct numerous proactive, compliance audits focusing on key risk areas, which are conducted by clinical auditors who work for our Compliance Department. 

Our Regulatory Environment 

We are highly regulated by federal, state and local authorities. Regulations and policies frequently change, and we monitor changes through trade and governmental publications and associations. Our home health and hospice subsidiaries are certified by CMS and therefore are eligible to receive payment for services through the Medicare system. 

We are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations dealing with issues such as occupational safety, employment, medical leave, insurance, civil rights, discrimination, building codes, environmental issues and adverse event reporting and recordkeeping. Federal, state and local governments are expanding the number of regulatory requirements on businesses. 

We have set forth below a discussion of the regulations that we believe most significantly affect our home health and hospice businesses. 

Licensure, Certificates of Need (CON) and Permits of Approval (POA) 

Home health and hospice care centers operate under licenses granted by the health authorities of their respective states. Additionally, certain states, including a number in which we operate, carefully restrict new entrants into the market based on demographic and/or competitive changes. In such states, expansion by existing providers or entry into the market by new providers is permitted only where a given amount of unmet need exists, resulting either from population increases or a reduction in competing providers. These states ration the entry of new providers or services and the expansion of existing providers or services in their markets through a CON process, which is periodically evaluated. Currently, state health authorities in 17 states and the District of Columbia require a CON or, in the State of Arkansas, a POA, in order to establish and operate a home health care center, and state health authorities in 11 states and the District of Columbia require a CON to operate a hospice care center. 

We operate home health care centers in the following CON states: Alabama, Arkansas (POA), Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and West Virginia, as well as the District of Columbia. We provide hospice related services in the following CON states: Alabama, Maryland, North Carolina, Tennessee and West Virginia. 

In every state where required, our locations possess a license and/or CON or POA issued by the state health authority that determines the local service areas for the home health or hospice care center. In general, the process for opening a home health or hospice care center begins by a provider submitting an application for licensure and certification to the state and federal regulatory bodies, which is followed by a testing period of 

&#160; 

transmitting data from the applicant to CMS. Once this process is complete, the care center receives a provider agreement and corresponding number and can begin billing for services that it provides unless a CON or POA is required. For those states that require a CON or POA, the provider must also complete a separate application process before billing can commence and receive required approvals for capital expenditures exceeding amounts above prescribed thresholds. 

State CON and POA laws generally provide that, prior to the addition of new capacity, the construction of new facilities or the introduction of new services, a designated state health planning agency must determine that a need exists for those beds, facilities or services. The process is intended to promote comprehensive health care planning, assist in providing high-quality health care at the lowest possible cost and avoid unnecessary duplication by ensuring that only those health care facilities and operations that are needed will be built and opened. 

Medicare Participation 

Our care centers must comply with regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health and Human Services in order to participate in the Medicare program and receive Medicare payments. Among other things, these regulations, known as &#147;conditions of participation,&#148; relate to the type of facility, its personnel and its standards of medical care, as well as its compliance with state and local laws and regulations. CMS has adopted alternative sanction enforcement options which allow CMS (i) effective as of July 1, 2013, to impose temporary management, direct plans of correction, or direct training, and (ii) effective as of July 1, 2014, to impose payment suspensions and civil monetary penalties in each case on providers out of compliance with the conditions of participation. CMS issued a proposed rule on October 9, 2014, revising the current home health conditions of participation. We provided public comments on the proposed changes, but we cannot predict the content or effective date of any final rule revising the home health conditions of participation. As of the date of this filing, the proposed rule has not been finalized. 

CMS has engaged a number of third party firms, including Recovery Audit Contractors (&#147;RACs&#148;), Program Safeguard Contractors (&#147;PSCs&#148;), Zone Program Integrity Contractors (&#147;ZPICs&#148;) and Medicaid Integrity Contributors (&#147;MICs&#148;), to conduct extensive reviews of claims data and state and Federal Government health care program laws and regulations applicable to healthcare providers. These audits evaluate the appropriateness of billings submitted for payment. In addition to identifying overpayments, audit contractors can refer suspected violations of law to government enforcement authorities. 

Federal and State Anti-Fraud and Anti-Kickback Laws 

As a provider under the Medicare and Medicaid systems, we are subject to various anti-fraud and abuse laws, including the Federal health care programs&#146; anti-kickback statute and, where applicable, its state law counterparts. Subject to certain exceptions, these laws prohibit any offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration to induce or reward the referral of business payable under a government health care program or in return for the purchase, lease, order, arranging for, or recommendation of items or services covered under a government health care program. Affected government health care programs include any health care plans or programs that are funded by the United States government (other than certain federal employee health insurance benefits/programs), including certain state health care programs that receive federal funds, such as Medicaid. A related law forbids the offer or transfer of anything of value, including certain waivers of co-payment obligations and deductible amounts, to a beneficiary of Medicare or Medicaid that is likely to influence the beneficiary&#146;s selection of health care providers, again subject to certain exceptions. Violations of the anti-fraud and abuse laws can result in the imposition of substantial civil and criminal penalties and, potentially, exclusion from furnishing services under any government health care program. In addition, the states in which we operate generally have laws that prohibit certain direct or indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between health care providers where they are designed to obtain the referral of patients from a particular provider. 

&#160; 

Stark Laws 

Congress adopted legislation in 1989, known as the &#147;Stark Law,&#148; that generally prohibited a physician from ordering clinical laboratory services for a Medicare beneficiary where the entity providing that service has a financial relationship (including direct or indirect ownership or compensation relationships) with the physician (or a member of his/her immediate family), and further prohibits such entity from billing for or receiving payment for such services, unless a specified exception is available. The Stark Law was amended through additional legislation, known as &#147;Stark II,&#148; which became effective January 1, 1993. That legislation extended the Stark Law prohibitions beyond clinical laboratory services to a more extensive list of statutorily defined &#147;designated health services,&#148; which includes, among other things, home health services, durable medical equipment and outpatient prescription drugs. Violations of the Stark Law result in payment denials and may also trigger civil monetary penalties and program exclusion. Several of the states in which we conduct business have also enacted statutes similar in scope and purpose to the federal fraud and abuse laws and the Stark Laws. These state laws may mirror the Federal Stark Laws or may be different in scope. The available guidance and enforcement activity associated with such state laws varies considerably. 

Federal and State Privacy and Security Laws 

The Administrative Simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (&#147;HIPAA&#148;), directed that the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (&#147;HHS&#148;) promulgate regulations prescribing standard requirements for electronic health care transactions and establishing protections for the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, known as &#147;protected health information.&#148; The HIPAA transactions regulations establish form, format and data content requirements for most electronic health care transactions, such as health care claims that are submitted electronically. The HIPAA privacy regulations establish comprehensive requirements relating to the use and disclosure of protected health information. The HIPAA security regulations establish minimum standards for the protection of protected health information that is stored or transmitted electronically. Violations of the privacy and security regulations are punishable by civil and criminal penalties. 

The American Recovery and Economic Reinvestment Act of 2009 (&#147;ARRA&#148;), signed into law by President Obama on February 17, 2009, contained significant changes to the privacy and security provisions of HIPAA, including major changes to the enforcement provisions. Among other things, ARRA significantly increased the amount of civil monetary penalties that can be imposed for violations of HIPAA. ARRA also authorized state attorneys general to bring civil enforcement actions under HIPAA. These enhanced penalties and enforcement provisions went into effect immediately upon enactment of ARRA. ARRA also required that HHS promulgate regulations requiring that certain notifications be made to individuals, to HHS and potentially to the media in the event of breaches of the privacy of protected health information. These breach notification regulations went into effect on September 23, 2009, and HHS began to enforce violations on February 22, 2010. Violations of the breach notification provisions of HIPAA can trigger the increased civil monetary penalties described above. 

ARRA&#146;s numerous other changes to HIPAA have delayed effective dates and require the issuance of implementing regulations by HHS. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (&#147;HITECH&#148;) Act was enacted in conjunction with ARRA. On January 25, 2013, HHS issued final modifications to the HIPAA Privacy, Security, and Enforcement Rules mandated by the HITECH Act, which had been previously issued as a proposed rule on July 14, 2010. Among other things, these modifications make business associates of covered entities directly liable for compliance with certain HIPAA requirements, strengthen the limitations on the use and disclosure of protected health information without individual authorizations, and adopt the additional HITECH Act enhancements, including enforcement of noncompliance with HIPAA due to willful neglect. The changes to HIPAA enacted as part of ARRA reflect a Congressional intent that HIPAA&#146;s privacy and security provisions be more strictly enforced. It is likely that these changes will stimulate increased enforcement activity and enhance the potential that health care providers will be subject to financial penalties for violations of HIPAA. 

&#160; 

In addition to the federal HIPAA regulations, most states also have laws that protect the confidentiality of health information. Also, in response to concerns about identity theft, many states have adopted so-called &#147;security breach&#148; notification laws that may impose requirements regarding the safeguarding of personal information, such as social security numbers and bank and credit card account numbers, and that impose an obligation to notify persons when their personal information has or may have been accessed by an unauthorized person. Some state security breach notification laws may also impose physical and electronic security requirements. Violation of state security breach notification laws can trigger significant monetary penalties. 

The False Claims Act 

The Federal False Claims Act gives the Federal Government an additional way to police false bills or requests for payment for health care services. Under the False Claims Act, the government may fine any person who knowingly submits, or participates in submitting, claims for payment to the Federal Government which are false or fraudulent, or which contain false or misleading information. Any person who knowingly makes or uses a false record or statement to avoid paying the Federal Government, or knowingly conceals or avoids an obligation to pay money to the Federal Government, may also be subject to fines under the False Claims Act. Under the False Claims Act, the term &#147;person&#148; means an individual, company, or corporation. The Federal Government has widely used the False Claims Act to prosecute Medicare and other governmental program fraud in areas such as violations of the Federal anti-kickback statute or the Stark Laws, coding errors, billing for services not provided, and submitting false cost reports. The False Claims Act has also been used to prosecute people or entities that bill services at a higher reimbursement rate than is allowed and that bill for care that is not medically necessary. In addition to government enforcement, the False Claims Act authorizes private citizens to bring qui tam or &#147;whistleblower&#148; lawsuits, greatly extending the practical reach of the False Claims Act. The penalty for violation of the False Claims Act is a minimum of $5,500 for each fraudulent claim plus three times the amount of damages caused to the government as a result of each fraudulent claim. 

The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 (&#147;FERA&#148;) amended the False Claims Act with the intent of enhancing the powers of government enforcement authorities and whistleblowers to bring False Claims Act cases. In particular, FERA attempts to clarify that liability may be established not only for false claims submitted directly to the government, but also for claims submitted to government contractors and grantees. FERA also seeks to clarify that liability exists for attempts to avoid repayment of overpayments, including improper retention of federal funds. FERA also included amendments to False Claims Act procedures, expanding the government&#146;s ability to use the Civil Investigative Demand process to investigate defendants, and permitting government complaints in intervention to relate back to the filing of the whistleblower&#146;s original complaint. FERA is likely to increase both the volume and liability exposure of False Claims Act cases brought against health care providers. 

On February 12, 2016, CMS finalized the so-called &#147;60-day rule,&#148; which is the obligation of providers to report and return Medicare overpayments within 60 days of identifying the same. A provider who retains overpayments beyond 60 days may be liable under the False Claims Act. &#147;Identification&#148; is identified as when a person &#147;has, or should have through the exercise of reasonable diligence,&#148; identified and quantified the amount of an overpayment. Providers must report and return overpayments even if they did not cause the overpayment. 

In addition to the False Claims Act, the Federal Government may use several criminal statutes to prosecute the submission of false or fraudulent claims for payment to the Federal Government. Many states have similar false claims statutes that impose liability for the types of acts prohibited by the False Claims Act. As part of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (the &#147;DRA&#148;), Congress provided states an incentive to adopt state false claims acts consistent with the Federal False Claims Act. Additionally, the DRA required providers who receive $5 million or more annually from Medicaid to include information on Federal and state false claims acts, whistleblower protections and the providers&#146; own policies on detecting and preventing fraud in their written employee policies. 

&#160; 

Civil Monetary Penalties 

The United States Department of Health and Human Services may impose civil monetary penalties upon any person or entity who presents, or causes to be presented, certain ineligible claims for medical items or services. The amount of penalties varies, depending on the offense, from $2,000 to $50,000 per violation. In addition, persons who have been excluded from the Medicare or Medicaid program and still retain ownership in a participating entity, or who contract with excluded persons, may be penalized. Penalties also are applicable in certain other cases, including violations of the Federal anti-kickback statute, payments to limit certain patient services and improper execution of statements of medical necessity. 

FDA Regulation 

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#147;FDA&#148;) regulates medical device user facilities, which include home health care providers. FDA regulations require user facilities to report patient deaths and serious injuries to FDA and/or the manufacturer of a device used by the facility if the device may have caused or contributed to the death or serious injury of any patient. FDA regulations also require user facilities to maintain files related to adverse events and to establish and implement appropriate procedures to ensure compliance with the above reporting and recordkeeping requirements. User facilities are subject to FDA inspection, and noncompliance with applicable requirements may result in warning letters or sanctions including civil monetary penalties, injunction, product seizure, criminal fines and/or imprisonment. 

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 

In March 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation was signed into law in the United States through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, &#147;PPACA&#148;). Even as of December 31, 2015, it is difficult to predict the full impact of PPACA due to the law&#146;s complexity and phased in effective dates, as well as our inability to foresee how CMS and other participants in the health care industry will respond to the choices available to them under the law. PPACA calls for a number of changes to be made over time that will likely have a significant impact upon the health care delivery system. For example, PPACA mandates decreases in home health reimbursement rates, including a four-year phased rebasing of the home health payment system that began in 2014 and will continue through 2017. These reimbursement changes are described in detail in Part II, Item 7, &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: Overview &#150; Economic and Industry Factors.&#148; PPACA has established a number of new requirements impacting our business operations, and promises to give rise to other changes that could significantly impact our businesses in the future. For example, PPACA also mandates the creation of a home health value-based purchasing program, the development of quality measures, and the testing of alternative payment and delivery models, including ACOs and the Bundled Payments for Care Improvement initiative. See Part I, Item 1A, &#147;Risk Factors: Risks Related to Laws and Government Regulations&#148; for a more complete discussion of PPACA and the risks it presents to our businesses. 

Our Competitors 

There are few barriers to entry in the home health and hospice jurisdictions that do not require certificates of need or permits of approval. Our primary competition in these jurisdictions comes from local privately and publicly-owned and hospital-owned health care providers. We compete based on the availability of personnel, the quality of services, expertise of visiting staff, and, in certain instances, on the price of our services. In addition, we compete with a number of non-profit organizations that finance acquisitions and capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or receive charitable contributions that are unavailable to us. 

Available Information 

Our company website address is www.amedisys.com . We use our website as a channel of distribution for important company information. Important information, including press releases, analyst presentations and 

&#160; 

financial information regarding our company, is routinely posted on and accessible on the Investor Relations subpage of our website, which is accessible by clicking on the tab labeled &#147;Investors&#148; on our website home page. We also use our website to expedite public access to time-critical information regarding our company in advance of or in lieu of distributing a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information. Therefore, investors should look to the &#147;Investors&#148; subpage of our website for important and time-critical information. Visitors to our website can also register to receive automatic e-mail and other notifications alerting them when new information is made available on the &#147;Investors&#148; subpage of our website. In addition, we make available on the Investors subpage of our website (under the link &#147;SEC Filings&#148;), free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, ownership reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such reports with the SEC. Further, copies of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, our Code of Ethical Business Conduct, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for the Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Quality of Care Committees of our Board are also available on the Investors subpage of our website (under the link &#147;Corporate Governance&#148;). Reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this document. 

Additionally, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. Our electronically filed reports can also be obtained on the SEC&#146;s internet site at http://www.sec.gov . 

&#160; 

