 Item 1. 

Business 

Overview 

We are a medical technology company focused on the design, development and promotion of products for the surgical treatment of spine disorders. We have a comprehensive product portfolio and pipeline that addresses the cervical, thoracolumbar and intervertebral regions of the spine and covers a variety of spinal disorders and surgical procedures. Our principal product offerings are focused on the global market for fusion-based spinal disorder solutions. We believe that our products and systems are attractive to surgeons and patients due to enhanced product features and benefits that are designed to simplify surgical procedures and improve patient outcomes. 

Strategy 

Our strategy is focused on improving lives by delivering advancements in spinal fusion technologies. Our broad line of spinal products is used to treat many spinal disorders and facilitate the spinal procedures necessary to correct them. Spinal fusion surgery is designed to stabilize the spine after the correction of a defect until fusion occurs. Additionally, we offer a broad line of biologic products that help promote or accelerate the spinal fusion process. To further differentiate our solutions, we have incorporated minimally invasive surgical, or MIS, devices and techniques into our portfolio to improve patient outcomes by reducing blood loss and the length of hospital stays. We believe that we have developed a strong platform of spinal fusion products to drive consistent growth. 

The three strategic pillars of our strategy are as follows: 

&#8226; 

Strategic Pillar #1: Deliver Advancements in our &#8220;Go-to-Market&#8221; Product Portfolio and our R&#38;D Pipeline Strategy to Compete More Effectively. 

We are dedicated to the development, launch and promotion of spinal fusion products that simplify procedures and improve patient outcomes. We support these products through comprehensive surgeon training and technical support. Our short-term and long-term pipeline is designed to offer us increased revenue opportunities by addressing the core market segments of spinal fusion, including both open and MIS pedicle screw systems, interbody devices, cervical plates and a comprehensive biologics offering. 

We estimate that the core stabilization and fixation business, including pedicle screw platforms and interbody systems, represents approximately $5.5 billion, or two-thirds, of the worldwide spinal fusion market. To capture a greater portion of this opportunity, we are focused on innovating and launching differentiated products in these large market segments. Our focus on a spinal fusion platform allows us to reduce the time of the product development cycle and accelerate our speed to market. We plan to expand our core product offerings and techniques in the major product segments within the spinal fusion market in order to increase our market penetration and revenue globally. We also plan to ensure that we have a complementary biologics platform to aid in the fusion process. We intend to continue to enhance our product offerings by developing, licensing and acquiring technologies that we can market broadly through our global sales organization. While investing in these opportunities, we remain focused on those technologies that we believe can enhance spinal fusion and are aligned with our strategy of having a competitive product offering in the major spinal fusion market segments. 

&#8226; 

Strategic Pillar #2: Transform our Manufacturing Operations and Physical Distribution 

We are well-underway with the transformation of our manufacturing and distribution capabilities with the goal of reducing ongoing costs and improving return on invested capital. Our key transformation initiatives underway include: outsourcing implant manufacturing, outsourcing product and instrument set distribution, and reducing the overall cost of instrument sets. Over time, we believe that achieving these goals will reduce the amount of fixed assets on our balance sheet, while improving our margins and free cash flow. 

We have made significant progress to move to an outsourced manufacturing model for our implants with the goal of reducing costs and capital expenditures. In July 2015, we announced a restructuring of our manufacturing operations in an effort to improve our business operations and manufacturing cost structure. The restructuring included a reduction in workforce and closing our manufacturing facility. In early 2016 we successfully discontinued implant manufacturing in accordance with our plan. We are also rolling out our instrument set distribution model with the goal of increasing our set usage per month and reducing our overall capital investment in instrument sets. We have partnered with UPS to leverage their large distribution network and includes set cleaning, implant replenishment and distribution to customers. We are actively engaged in implementing processes aimed at significantly reducing the costs of our instrument sets over the next few years. We have successfully achieved savings on our Arsenal instrument sets and are looking to expand that across other products as appropriate. We believe that the implementation of these initiatives will strengthen our ability to compete globally in an increasingly price-sensitive healthcare industry. 

&#8226; 

Strategic Pillar #3: Transform our Commercial Execution and Global Participation. 

Our products are sold in the U.S. through a network of independent distributors and direct sales representatives. We actively seek opportunities to increase the size and quality of this sales and distribution network in order to reach a broader base of surgeons, hospitals, and national accounts across the U.S. and also deepen penetration in existing accounts and territories. 

With recent product approvals in key global markets, we are poised for international growth. We believe that our well-established international platform provides a strong foundation for us to grow our business globally. In addition to our established subsidiaries and/or affiliates in Japan, Germany, Brazil, Italy and the U.K., we also have independent distributors in over 50 countries throughout the world. We plan to continue to increase our international presence by expanding our distribution network in several key markets and to increase our sales penetration in certain other markets. 

We believe that our global expansion combined with our planned product launches in target geographies will allow us to compete more effectively and gain greater market share. 

Spine Anatomy 

The human spine is the core of the human skeleton and provides important structural support while remaining flexible to allow movement. The human spine is a column of 33 bones that protects the spinal cord and enables people to stand upright. Each bony segment of the spine is referred to as a vertebra (two or more are called vertebrae). The spine has five regions containing groups of similar bones, listed from top to bottom: seven cervical vertebrae in the neck, twelve thoracic vertebrae in the mid-back (each attached to a rib), five lumbar vertebrae in the lower back, five sacral vertebrae fused together to form one bone in the hip region, and four coccygeal bones fused together that form the tailbone. At the front of each vertebra is a block of bone called the vertebral body. The vertebral body consists of an inner core of soft cancellous bone, surrounded by a thin outer layer of hard cortical bone. Vertebrae are stacked on top of each other and enable people to sit and stand upright. Vertebrae in the cervical, thoracic and lumbar regions are separated from each other and cushioned by a rubbery soft tissue called the intervertebral disc. Segments of bone that extend outward at the back of each cervical, thoracic and lumbar vertebral body surround and protect the spinal cord and its nerve roots. These bones, known as the posterior spinous processes, can be felt along the middle of a person&#8217;s back. 

The Alphatec Solution 

Our principal product offering includes a wide variety of systems comprised of components such as spine screws and rods, spinal spacers, plates, and various biologics offerings all designed to enhance and promote spinal fusion. Our business is focused on treating degenerative and deformity conditions. 

The chart below illustrates the principal products in our broad portfolio of spine systems currently available for sale by market segment. Certain systems and products are described in greater detail below the chart. Items marked with an asterisk are not available for sale in the U.S. 

Cervical and Cervico-Thoracic Products 

Trestle Luxe Anterior Cervical Plate System 

Our Trestle Luxe Anterior Cervical Plate System has a large window that enables the surgeon to have improved graft site and end plate visualization, which is designed to allow for better placement of the plate. The Trestle Luxe Anterior Cervical Plate System also has a low-profile design, which we believe is among the lowest in the spine market. Low-profile cervical plates are intended to reduce the irritation of the tissue adjacent to the plate following surgery. Other key features of the Trestle Luxe Anterior Cervical Plate system include a self-retaining screw-locking mechanism that is designed to ensure quick and easy locking of the plate and a flush profile after the screws are inserted. 

Solanas Posterior Cervico/Thoracic Fixation System and Avalon Occipital Plate 

Our Solanas Posterior Cervico/Thoracic Fixation System consists of rods, polyaxial screws, hooks, and connectors that provide a solution for posterior cervico/thoracic fusion procedures. We also designed the Solanas Posterior Cervico/Thoracic System to be used in combination with our existing Zodiac Degenerative Spinal Fixation System and our Avalon Occipital Plate, thereby providing surgeons with a solution for occipito-cervico-thoracic fixation. The Avalon Occipital Plate has a unique buttress design for optimal bone graft placement and superior fusion, including three points of plate rotation and translation, which is designed to ease the placement of the plate. 

Pegasus Anchored Cervical Interbody 

The Pegasus Anchored Cervical Interbody, or ACI, System provides surgeons a simplified approach to traditional anterior cervical disectomy and fusion, or ACDF. It features a single-step delivery of a spacer with an integrated anchoring mechanism. The single-step, non-impaction and locking mechanism reduces operative time and simplifies a standard technique. 

Thoracolumbar Fixation Products 

Arsenal Degenerative System 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; Arsenal Degenerative Spinal Fixation System is a comprehensive system for both simple and complex degenerative spinal fusion procedures. The Arsenal Degenerative Spinal Fixation System was designed to provide operational efficiency, biomechanical strength, and surgical simplicity while providing a complete solution to combat most complex degenerative pathologies. We believe the combination of low-profile implants, intuitive instrumentation and proven strength of this system are significant advantages. &#32; The Arsenal Degenerative System was designed to be the platform for future development in other spinal fusion segments of the market including the deformity, MIS and cervico-thoracic segments of the market. 

Arsenal CBx Cortical Bone Fixation System 

Arsenal CBx is the first extension to the Arsenal platform. An alternative to traditional pedicle screw placement, Arsenal CBx Cortical Bone Fixation System utilizes a midline approach and cortical bone trajectory to achieve maximum fixation through a less-invasive procedure. This system leverages the strengths of the Arsenal product platform with the benefits of a minimally disruptive procedure to enhance patient outcomes. 

Due to the midline approach and inward-outward screw trajectory, soft tissue and muscle exposure requirements are greatly reduced compared to the traditional approach while still retaining direct visualization and access to the disc space. Arsenal CBx is a compatible fixation option for both posterior lateral interbody fusion or transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion, or PLIF and TLIF, respectively, applications in addition to being a unique muscle sparing approach to revision surgery. 

Zodiac Degenerative Spinal Fixation System 

Our Zodiac Degenerative Spinal Fixation System is a comprehensive spinal system that offers polyaxial pedicle screws, accompanying implants and advanced instruments for the stabilization of the thoracolumbar spine. 

Zodiac Deformity Spinal Fixation System 

Our Zodiac Deformity Spinal Fixation System is a comprehensive system of instrumentation and implants designed to enable the surgeon to address patient-specific spinal deformity correction procedures. The Zodiac Deformity Spinal Fixation System contains polyaxial screws that are similar in design to those in the Zodiac Degenerative Spinal Fixation System, along with components that are frequently used in deformity correction procedures and deformity specific instrumentation. 

OsseoScrew Spinal Fixation System 

The OsseoScrew Spinal Fixation System is an innovative pedicle screw system that is designed to provide a solution for patients who have poor bone density. The OsseoScrew System is designed to be implanted into the pedicle and then expanded after implementation to achieve increased screw fixation in bone with poor density. The OsseoScrew Spinal Fixation System is not available for sale in the U.S. 

Spinal Spacers 

Battalion Universal Spacer System 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; The Battalion Universal Spacer System offers comfort, control and innovative design for surgeons performing PLIF/TLIF procedures. The Battalion implants introduce a new alternative to interbody fusion by combining the elasticity and radiolucency of PEEK with a titanium coating for potential osseointegration. 

The implants, which come in both a straight and curved footprint, feature a bulleted nose for easy insertion. The Battalion System also features an intuitive and innovative 180-degree locking inserter that assists with protection of neural elements during insertion of the implant. To further market potential, the Battalion System features state-of-the-art instrumentation for disc prep, access and implantation. 

Novel PEEK and Titanium Spinal Spacers 

Our family of Novel spinal spacers addresses the surgical need to accommodate varying patient anatomies, surgical approaches and composite material options. We offer multiple unique implant designs, each of which is available in numerous shapes and heights. Certain of our Novel spinal spacers are made of titanium and others are made of polyetheretherketone, or PEEK. Our Novel PEEK spinal spacers have been approved for use in both the lumbar and cervical regions of the spine. 

Alphatec Solus Locking ALIF Spinal Spacer 

Our Alphatec Solus locking ALIF spinal spacer, or Alphatec Solus, is a zero-profile PEEK and titanium device offering four points of fixation for improved stability. Alphatec Solus features a one-step insertion and deployment feature and is used in ALIF procedures. We believe that Alphatec Solus&#8217; locking mechanism is a substantial improvement over similar products currently on the market. 

MIS Products 

Illico Minimally Invasive Surgery System 

The Illico Minimally Invasive Surgery System is a cannulated pedicle screw system that is designed to be inserted via a minimally invasive surgical procedure. Access to the spine is gained through a small incision. The surgeon is then able to see the surgical site by using a small canal through which implants are inserted into the patient with a minimum amount of disruption to the surrounding tissue. We believe that the Illico Minimally Invasive System limits trauma to the tissue surrounding the location of the surgery, which is designed to enable patients to recover faster. 

BridgePoint Spinous Process Fixation System 

The BridgePoint system is a spinous process fixation system that was developed to address the disadvantages of traditional stabilization devices. The system allows surgeons to fixate the spine using a less invasive approach by attaching a plate to the spinous process of the vertebral body during spinal fusion surgery. 

Biologics 

Neocore Osteoconductive Matrix 

In 2015, we launched our Neocore Osteoconductive Matrix, a synthetic scaffold for the regeneration of bone. With the Neocore platform, we will have the ability to expand our biologics opportunity in the U.S. and internationally, bringing a compelling synthetic bone regeneration solution and competitive pricing to our surgeon and hospital customers worldwide. 

Neocore Osteoconductive Matrix is designed to provide an effective core environment for bone growth through a synthetic scaffold. When hydrated with patient bone marrow aspirate, or BMA, Neocore becomes a complete bone graft, which possesses all the necessary components of bone growth. Engineered to perform like natural bone, Neocore's composition and porosity provide the benefits of rapid revascularization throughout graft and supports replacement of three-dimensional matrix with healthy new bone growth. Offering excellent handling characteristics, these pre-formed strips are flexible to conform to adjacent structures, compressible, and moldable. They can also be cut to fit. 

We believe that this new synthetic biologics product will provide surgeons with the handling characteristics and osteoconductive composition they've been looking for in bone grafting products. 

Sales and Marketing 

In the U.S., we sell our products through a sales force consisting of employee direct sales representatives and independent sales agents. Although surgeons in the U.S. typically make the ultimate decision to use our products, we generally bill the 

hospital for the products that are used and pay commissions to sales representative or sales agent based on payment received from the hospital. We compensate our direct sales employees through salaries and incentive bonuses based on performance measures. In 2015, we expanded our U.S. sales coverage by adding additional distributors and direct sales representatives and we focused this expansion on geographical areas where we previously had little or no sales coverage. We believe this expansion, coupled with robust new products, will support the continued adoption of our products by surgeons who do not currently use our products and the increased use of our products by surgeons who currently use our products. We plan on continuing to expand our sales coverage through existing distributors, direct sales representatives and adding new distributors with an established customer base in order to promote further uptake of our products by new and existing surgeon customers. 

&#32;Internationally, we sell our products both through independent distributors who resell the products to the hospital and also through employees that sell directly to the hospital on behalf of the Company. We plan to continue expanding our direct sales and distribution network and product offerings throughout the world. Internationally, we are focusing our expansion into large markets. We market our products at various international industry conferences, organized surgical training courses, and in industry trade journals and periodicals. In addition, we host several international educational conferences throughout the world. 

We select our sales force based on their expertise in selling spinal devices, reputation within the surgeon community, geographical coverage and established sales network. We market our products at various industry conferences, organized surgical training courses, and in industry trade journals and periodicals. 

Surgeon Training and Education 

We focus our surgeon training efforts on the entire spinal fusion procedure and utilize a peer-to-peer training approach with surgeons. We devote significant resources to train and educate surgeons in the proper use of our products. We believe that one of the most effective ways to introduce and build market demand for our products is by training and educating spine surgeons, independent distributors, and direct sales representatives worldwide in the benefits and use of our products. Separate from ongoing product training and education programs, we also conduct product roadshows at a surgeon&#8217;s office with the objective of introducing new products to existing and new surgeon customers in order to drive adoption of our products by these surgeons. In 2015, to support the launch of the Arsenal Degenerative System, we completed over 100 Arsenal-specific roadshows across various locations in the U.S. and internationally. We believe this is an effective way to increase overall surgeon adoption of our new products. 

Given our global focus, we host several training events throughout the year in the U.S. and internationally. We believe that surgeons, independent distributors, and direct sales representatives will become exposed to the merits and distinguishing features of our products through our training and education programs, and in doing so, will increase the use and promotion of our products. With a focus on the entire procedure, we expect to build awareness of the breadth of our product offering. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development department seeks to continually improve our core product offering and introduce new products to increase our penetration in the global spine market. We are focused on developing technology platforms that span the largest market segments: spinal fusion fixation and biologic products. We have transformed our development process by focusing our resources on two major development programs per year and leveraging integrated teams focused on the key platforms to reduce the time frame from product concept to market commercialization. We also collaborate with our surgeon partners to design products to enhance the surgeon experience, simplify surgical techniques, and reduce overall costs, while improving patient outcomes. 

Manufacture and Supply 

In 2015, we began implementing our implant manufacturing outsourcing initiative, which we successfully executed in early 2016. This included organizational restructuring, machine disposition, and building closure. Outsourcing implant manufacturing reduces our need for capital investment and reduces operational expense. Additionally, the transformation will also provide expertise and capacity necessary to scale up or down based on demand for our products. 

As a result of this transformation, we rely on third-party suppliers for the manufacture of our implants and instruments, including biologics. We select our suppliers to ensure that all of our products are safe, effective, adhere to all applicable regulations, are of the highest quality, and meet our supply needs. We employ a rigorous supplier assessment, qualification, and selection process targeted to suppliers that meet the requirements of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, and quality standards supported by internal policies and procedures. Our quality assurance process monitors and maintains supplier performance through qualification and periodic supplier reviews and audits. 

The raw materials used in the manufacture of our non-biologic products are principally titanium, titanium alloys, stainless steel, cobalt chrome, ceramic, allograft, and PEEK. With the exception of PEEK, none of our raw material requirements is limited to any significant extent by critical supply. We are subject to the risk that Invibio, one of a limited number of PEEK suppliers, will fail to supply PEEK in adequate amounts and in a timely manner. We believe our supplier relationships and quality processes will support our potential capacity needs for the foreseeable future. 

With respect to biologics products, we are FDA-registered and licensed in the states of California, New York, and Florida, the only states that currently require licenses. Our facility and the facilities of the third-party suppliers we use are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by regulatory authorities and may undergo compliance inspections conducted by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies. Because our biologics products are processed from human tissue, maintaining a steady supply can sometimes be challenging. We have not experienced significant difficulty in locating and obtaining the materials necessary to fulfill our production requirements, and we have not experienced a meaningful disruption to sales orders. 

In 2015, we also began implementing our distribution transformation initiative. After an extensive due diligence review, we partnered with UPS to outsource the physical distribution of implant and instrument sets to enhance customer service and drive set utilization improvements with our continued commitment to on-time delivery. We opened two forward stocking locations in 2015 in Lyndhurst, New Jersey and Tampa, Florida to service our customers. These forward stocking locations are intended to provide on-time delivery to our customers in the nearby regions and improve set turns. We are in the process of opening a full-service set cleaning, replenishment, and distribution hub at the UPS multi-client facility in Swedesboro, New Jersey. The hub facility will perform similar inventory administration and processing activities as to what is currently done in our Carlsbad headquarters, while expanding shipment cut-off times due to the east coast location. The improvement in set turns should reduce future capital investment in set purchases. International shipments and west coast regions will continue to be serviced from our Carlsbad facility. 

Competition 

Although we believe that our current broad product portfolio and development pipeline is differentiated and has numerous competitive advantages, the spinal implant industry is highly competitive, subject to rapid technological change, and significantly affected by new product introductions. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include: 

&#8226; 

improved outcomes for spine pathology procedures; 

&#8226; 

ease of use, quality and reliability; 

&#8226; 

effective and efficient sales, marketing and distribution; 

&#8226; 

quality service and an educated and knowledgeable sales network; 

&#8226; 

technical leadership and superiority; 

&#8226; 

surgeon services, such as training and education; 

&#8226; 

responsiveness to the needs of surgeons; 

&#8226; 

acceptance by spine surgeons; 

&#8226; 

product price and qualification for reimbursement; and 

&#8226; 

speed to market. 

Both our currently marketed products and any future products we commercialize are subject to intense competition. We believe that our most significant competitors are Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Johnson &#38; Johnson (DePuy/Synthes), Stryker, NuVasive, Zimmer, Biomet, Orthofix, Globus Medical, Sea Spine, LDR Spine, K2 Medical and others, many of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do. In addition, these companies may have more established distribution networks, entrenched relationships with physicians, and greater experience in developing, launching, marketing, distributing and selling spinal implant products. 

Our competitors also include providers of non-operative therapies for spine disorder conditions. While these non-operative treatments are considered to be an alternative to surgery, surgery is typically performed in the event that non-operative treatments are unsuccessful. We believe that, to date, these non-operative treatments have not caused a material reduction in the demand for surgical treatment of spinal disorders. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure agreements, proprietary information ownership agreements and other measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that in order to have a competitive advantage, we must develop, maintain and enforce the proprietary aspects of our technologies. We require our employees, consultants, co-developers, distributors and advisors to execute agreements governing the ownership of proprietary information and use and disclosure of confidential information in connection with their relationship with us. In general, these agreements require these individuals and entities to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions that were conceived on our behalf or which relate to our property or business and to keep our confidential information confidential and only use such confidential information in connection with our business. 

Despite any measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. Further, as described in &#8220;Item 3 Legal Proceedings,&#8221; others may attempt to obtain royalties based on the net sales of our products or other payments from us, which may impact our revenues. We may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights. 

Patents 

As of March 14, 2016 , we and our affiliates owned, or exclusively owned 100 issued U.S. patents, 104 pending U.S. patent applications and 183 issued or pending foreign patents. We own multiple patents relating to unique aspects and improvements for several of our products. We do not believe that the expiration of any single patent is likely to significantly affect our intellectual property position. 

The medical device industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Patent litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions and its outcome is uncertain. Any claim relating to infringement of patents that is successfully asserted against us may require us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if our infringement is found to be willful) or may require us to remove our infringing product from the market. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our success will also depend in part on our not infringing patents issued to others, including our competitors and potential competitors. If our products are found to infringe the patents of others, our development, manufacture and sale of such potential products could be severely restricted or prohibited. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. We may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights. 

As the number of entrants into our market increases, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us grows. While we make an effort to ensure that our products do not infringe other parties&#8217; patents and proprietary rights, our products and methods may be covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by our competitors. In addition, our competitors may assert that future products we may manufacture or market infringe their patents. 

If we are accused of patent infringement, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we are able to obtain rights to the third party&#8217;s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business financial condition and results of operations. 

Trademarks 

As of March 14, 2016 , we and our affiliates owned 71 registered U.S. trademarks, including &#8220;Alphatec Spine,&#8221; &#8220;Zodiac,&#8221; &#8220;Illico&#8221; and &#8220;Trestle Luxe&#8221; and 41 registered trademarks outside of the U.S. 

Government Regulation 

Our products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other U.S. federal and state regulatory bodies and comparable authorities in other countries. To ensure that medical products distributed domestically and internationally are safe and effective for their intended use, FDA and comparable authorities in other countries have imposed regulations that govern, among other things, the following activities that we or our partners perform and will continue to perform: 

&#8226; 

product design and development; 

&#8226; 

product testing; 

&#8226; 

product manufacturing; 

&#8226; 

product labeling; 

&#8226; 

product storage; 

&#8226; 

premarket clearance or approval; 

&#8226; 

advertising and promotion; 

&#8226; 

product marketing, sales and distribution; and 

&#8226; 

post-market surveillance, including reporting deaths or serious injuries related to products and certain product malfunctions. 

FDA&#8217;s Premarket Clearance and Approval Requirements 

Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to commercially distribute in the U.S. will require either prior 510(k) clearance or approval of a premarket approval application, or PMA. The information that must be submitted to the FDA in order to obtain clearance or approval to market a new medical device varies depending on how the medical device is classified by the FDA. Medical devices are classified into one of three classes on the basis of the intended use of the device, the risk associated with the use of the device for that indication, as determined by the FDA, and on the controls deemed by the FDA to be necessary to reasonably ensure their safety and effectiveness. Class I devices, which have the lowest level of risk associated with them, are subject to general controls. Class II devices are subject to general controls and special controls, including performance standards. Class III devices, which have the highest level of risk associated with them, are subject to general controls and premarket approval. Most Class I devices and some Class II devices are exempt from the 510(k) requirement, although the manufacturers will still be subject to establishment registration, medical device listing, labeling requirements, QSRs and medical device reporting. Class III devices are subject to those requirements and additional requirements including PMA approval. 

A new medical device for which there is no substantially equivalent device is automatically designated a Class III device. Depending on the nature of the new device, the manufacturer may ask the FDA to make a risk-based determination of the new device and reclassify it in Class I or Class II. This process is referred to as the de novo &#32;process. If the FDA agrees, the new device will be reassigned to the appropriate other class. If the FDA does not agree, the manufacturer will have to submit a PMA. Our current commercial products are Class II devices marketed under FDA 510(k) premarket clearance. Both 510(k)s and PMAs are subject to the payment of user fees at the time of submission for FDA review. 

510(k) Clearance Pathway 

To obtain 510(k) clearance, we must submit a premarket notification demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a device legally marketed in the U.S. for which a PMA was not required. The FDA&#8217;s goal is to review and act on each 510(k) within 90 days of submission, but it may take longer if the FDA requests additional information. Most 510(k)s do not require supporting data from clinical trials, but the FDA may request such data. 

After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a new or major change in its intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance or, depending on the modification, require premarket approval. Each manufacturer initially determines whether the proposed change requires submission of a 510(k), or a premarket approval, but the FDA can review any such decision and can disagree with a manufacturer&#8217;s determination. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer&#8217;s determination, the FDA can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or premarket approval is obtained. If the FDA requires us to seek a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval for any modifications to a previously cleared product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain this clearance or approval. Also, in these circumstances, we may be subject to significant fines or penalties. We have made and plan to continue to make enhancements to our products, and we will consider on a case-by-case basis whether a new 510(k) or PMA is necessary. 

Premarket Approval Pathway 

A PMA must be submitted if the device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) process. The PMA process is generally more complex, costly and time consuming than the 510(k) process. A PMA must be supported by extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trials, manufacturing and labeling to demonstrate to the FDA&#8217;s satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. After a PMA is sufficiently complete, the FDA will accept the application for filing and begin an in-depth review of the submitted information. By statute, the FDA has 180 days to review the accepted application, although, review of the application generally can take between one and three years. During this review period, the FDA may request additional information or clarification of information already provided. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and 

provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. In addition, the FDA will conduct a preapproval inspection of the manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with quality system regulations, or QSRs. New premarket approval applications or premarket approval application supplements are also required for product modifications that affect the safety and efficacy of the device. Premarket approval supplements often require submission of the same type of information as a PMA, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the original PMA approval, and may not require clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel. We were not required to submit a PMA for any of our currently marketed products, but devices in development may require a PMA. 

Clinical Trials 

Clinical trials are required to support a PMA and are sometimes required for a 510(k). In the U.S., if the device is determined to present a &#8220;significant risk,&#8221; the manufacturer may not begin a clinical trial until it submits an investigational device exemption application, or IDE, and obtains approval of the IDE from the FDA. The IDE must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. These clinical trials are also subject to the review, approval and oversight of an institutional review board, or IRB, at each clinical trial site. The clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA&#8217;s IDE regulations and good clinical practices. A clinical trial may be suspended by FDA, the sponsor or an IRB at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to the study participants outweigh the benefits of participation in the trial. Even if a clinical trial is completed, the results may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a device to the satisfaction of the FDA, or may be equivocal or otherwise not be sufficient to obtain approval of a device. 

Pervasive and Continuing FDA Regulation 

After a device is placed on the market, numerous FDA and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. These include: 

&#8226; 

quality system regulations, which require manufacturers, including third-party contract manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation, record maintenance and other quality assurance controls, during all aspects of the manufacturing process and to maintain and investigate complaints; 

&#8226; 

labeling regulations, and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of products for uncleared or unapproved &#8220;off-label&#8221; uses; 

&#8226; 

medical device reporting obligations, which require that manufacturers submit reports to the FDA of adverse events; and 

&#8226; 

other post-market surveillance requirements, which apply when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. 

Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following: 

&#8226; 

warning letters; 

&#8226; 

fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; 

&#8226; 

recall or seizure of products; 

&#8226; 

operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; 

&#8226; 

refusal to grant 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals of new products; and 

&#8226; 

criminal prosecution. 

To ensure compliance with regulatory requirements, medical device manufacturers are subject to market surveillance and manufacturers and their third-party manufacturers are subject to periodic announced and unannounced inspections by the FDA. 

On July 17, 2015, we received a Warning Letter, dated July 16, 2015, from the FDA in connection with the FDA&#8217;s inspection of our manufacturing facilities located in Carlsbad, CA that occurred from February 4, 2015 until March 13, 2015, or the Inspection. 

In the Warning Letter, the FDA cited eight deficiencies in our response to the FDA Form 483, Inspectional Observation, which was issued to us at the end of the Inspection. The deficiencies relate to our internal procedures for quality planning, design control, document control and corrective and preventive actions. 

The Warning Letter does not restrict production or shipment of our products from its facilities, or the sale or marketing of our products. We are currently addressing the deficiencies cited by the FDA in the Warning Letter and intend to work closely with the FDA to resolve any outstanding issues. Until the procedures noted in the Warning Letter are corrected, we may be 

subject to additional regulatory action by the FDA, and any such actions could significantly disrupt our ongoing business and operations and have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. There can be no assurance that the FDA will be satisfied with our response. 

Regulation of Human Cells, Tissues, and Cellular and Tissue-based Products 

Human cells, tissues, and cellular and tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps, are defined as articles containing or consisting of human cells or tissue that are intended for implantation, transplantation, infusion, or transfer into a human recipient. They are regulated by the FDA under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, or PHS Act, and related regulations promulgated by the FDA in 21 CFR Part 1271. If the HCT/P is minimally manipulated, is intended for homologous use only and meets other requirements, the establishment that manufactures the HCT/P will not be regulated as a drug, device and/or biologic under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and/or section 351 of the PHS Act and applicable regulations, and premarket review will not be required. 

International Device Regulations 

International sales of medical devices are subject to foreign government regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and the requirements may differ. 

Japan 

In Japan, certain medical devices classified as &#8220;highly controlled&#8221; must be approved prior to importation and commercial sale by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, or MHLW, pursuant to the Japanese Pharmaceutical Affairs Law. Manufacturers of medical devices outside of Japan that do not operate through a Japanese entity are required to appoint a contractually bound authorized representative to directly submit an application for device approval to the MHLW. The MHLW evaluates each device for safety and efficacy and may require that the product be tested in Japanese laboratories. After a device is approved for importation and commercial sale in Japan, the MHLW continues to monitor sales of approved products for compliance. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the MHLW, including administrative inspections and recommendations; recall or seizure of products; operating restrictions, including partial suspension or total shut down of marketing activity in Japan; withdrawal of product approvals; and criminal prosecution by a public prosecutor, including criminal fines and/or imprisonment. 

Our devices fall into the &#8220;highly controlled&#8221; medical device category. Currently, MHLW review times for our device applications range from one year if clinical data is not required, to up to two years if clinical data is required. The review times for our products are expected to be reduced to six months and one year, respectively, and we expect application fees to be reduced as new approval screening standards are established by the MHLW, which has delegated responsibility for these review functions to the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency, for various medical device categories. Currently, the MHLW is working with trade organizations such as AdvaMed, and MHLW may adopt similar standards. 

European Union 

The European Union, which consists of 28 of the countries in Europe, has adopted numerous directives and standards regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling, and adverse event reporting for medical devices. Other countries, such as Switzerland, have voluntarily adopted laws and regulations that mirror those of the European Union with respect to medical devices. Devices that comply with the requirements of a relevant directive will be entitled to bear CE conformity marking and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout the member states of the European Union, as well as other countries that comply with or mirror these directives. The method of assessing conformity varies depending on the type and class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer or a third-party assessment by a &#8220;Notified Body,&#8221; an independent and neutral institution appointed to conduct conformity assessment. This third-party assessment consists of an audit of the manufacturer&#8217;s quality system and technical review and testing of the manufacturer&#8217;s product. An assessment by a Notified Body in one country within the European Union is required in order for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the European Union. In addition, compliance with voluntary harmonized standards including ISO 13845 issued by the International Organization for Standards establishes the presumption of conformity with the essential requirements for a CE mark. In October 2007, we were certified by Intertek Semko, a Notified Body, under the European Union Medical Device Directive allowing the CE conformity marking to be applied. In September 2012, the European Commission adopted a proposed European Medical Device Regulations, or EMDR, which when implemented will change the way that most medical devices are regulated in the European Union. In particular, the EMDR will reclassify CE-marked spine implants from Class IIb to Class III, which will impose additional requirements for technical and 

clinical information, subject the companies and their suppliers to additional scrutiny and require the use of Special Notified Bodies. 

Environmental Matters 

Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions; wastewater discharges; the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; the handling and disposal of hazardous wastes; the cleanup of contamination; and the health and safety of our employees. Under such laws and regulations, we are required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for some of our operations. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also be held responsible for costs and damages arising from any contamination at our past or present facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials, and we may incur material liability as a result of any contamination or injury. 

Compliance with Certain Applicable Statutes 

We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws, false claims laws, criminal health care fraud laws, and foreign corrupt practice laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the United States, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws are administered by, among others, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and state attorneys general. Many of these agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical device manufacturers in recent years. 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for or recommending a good or service, for which payment may be made in whole or part under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. For example, the definition of &#8220;remuneration&#8221; has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including, gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of payments, ownership interests and providing anything at less than its fair market value. In addition, in March 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted and President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act, which, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, is referred to as ACA. ACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, ACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act. 

In implementing the Anti-Kickback Statute, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, or OIG, has issued a series of regulations, known as the safe harbors, which began in July 1991. These safe harbors set forth provisions that, in circumstances where all the applicable requirements are met, will assure healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy all requirements of an applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG. Penalties for violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Many states have anti-kickback laws that are similar to the federal law, including penalties, fines, sanctions for violations, and exclusions from state or commercial programs. 

The federal ban on physician self-referrals, commonly known as the Stark Law, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits physician referrals of Medicare and Medicaid patients to an entity providing certain &#8220;designated health services&#8221; if the physician or an immediate family member of the physician has any financial relationship with the entity. Penalties for violating the Stark Law include fines, civil monetary penalties and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs. In addition to the Stark Law, many states have their own self-referral laws. Often, these laws closely follow the language of the federal law, although they do not always have the same scope, exceptions or safe harbors. 

We have entered into various agreements with certain surgeons that perform services for us, including some who make clinical decisions to use our products. Some of our referring surgeons own our stock, which they either purchased in an arms&#8217; length transaction on terms identical to those offered to non-surgeons or received from us as fair market value consideration for services performed. All such arrangements have been structured with the intention of complying with all applicable fraud and 

abuse laws, including the Anti-Kickback Statute. Stark Law and similar state self-referral laws. In addition, physician-owned distribution companies, or PODs, have increasingly become involved in the sale and distribution of medical devices, including products for the surgical treatment of spine disorders. In many cases, these distribution companies enter into arrangements with hospitals that bill Medicare or Medicaid for the furnishing of medical services, and the physician-owners are among the physicians who refer patients to the hospitals for surgery. On March 26, 2013 the OIG issued a Special Fraud Alert entitled "Physician-Owned Entities", or the Fraud Alert, in which the OIG concluded, among other things, that PODs are "inherently suspect under the anti-kickback statute" and that PODs present "substantial fraud and abuse risk and pose dangers of patient safety." We believe that all of our arrangements with PODs comply with applicable fraud and abuse laws and do not believe that we are subject to any arrangements that violate any such laws. 

The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing or causing to be filed a false or fraudulent claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from, the federal government. Private suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as qui tam actions, can be brought by individuals on behalf of the government. These individuals, sometimes known as &#8220;relators&#8221; or, more commonly, as &#8220;whistleblowers,&#8221; may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The number of filings of qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing more healthcare companies to have to defend a False Claim Act action. If an entity is determined to have violated the federal False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of between $5,500 to $11,000 for each separate false claim and may be subject to exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Various states have also enacted similar laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. 

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. Under recent changes in ACA, the intent requirement of the healthcare fraud statute is lowered such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in similar sanctions. 

ACA also includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement in addition to those changes discussed above. Among these additional provisions include increased funding for enforcement efforts and new &#8220;sunshine&#8221; provisions to require us to report and disclose to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, any payment or &#8220;transfer of value&#8221; made or distributed to physicians or teaching hospitals. These sunshine provisions also require certain group purchasing organizations, including physician-owned distributors, to disclose physician ownership information to CMS. On February 8, 2013, CMS published a detailed regulation implementing these sunshine provisions. Under this final rule, starting August 1, 2013, we and other device manufacturers collected specific data on payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals for the remaining calendar year 2013, with such data assembled into a report made to CMS in March 2014. Since the fall of 2014, CMS has been publishing on its website annual data of all manufacturer reports of such payments and transfers of value, including those of us. CMS has delayed putting our 2014 data on its website with expected publication sometime in 2016. Similar disclosures and CMS reports are to be made annually thereafter. There are various state laws and initiatives that require device manufacturers to disclose to the appropriate regulatory agency certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians, and in certain cases prohibit some forms of these payments, with the risk of fines for any violation of such requirements. Massachusetts has one of the most stringent of these laws, and the District of Columbia and Vermont passed such laws in 2008 and 2009, respectively. 

HIPAA also includes privacy and security provisions designed to regulate the use and disclosure of &#8220;protected health information&#8221;, or PHI, which is health information that identifies a patient and that is held by a health care provider, a health plan or health care clearinghouse. We are not directly regulated by HIPAA, but our ability to access PHI for purposes such as marketing, product development, clinical research or other uses is controlled by HIPAA and restrictions placed on health care providers and other covered entities. HIPAA was amended in 2009 by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, which strengthened the rule, increased penalties for violations and added a requirement for the disclosure of breaches to affected individuals, the government and in some cases the media. We must carefully structure any transaction involving PHI to avoid violation of HIPAA and HITECH requirements. 

Almost all states have adopted data security laws protecting personal information including social security numbers, state issued identification numbers, credit card or financial account information coupled with individuals&#8217; names or initials. We must comply with all applicable state data security laws, even though they vary extensively, and must ensure that any breaches or accidental disclosures of personal information are promptly reported to affected individuals and responsible government 

entities. We must also ensure that we maintain compliant, written information security programs or run the risk of civil or even criminal sanctions for non-compliance as well as reputational harm for publicly reported breaches or violations. 

We may also be exposed to liabilities under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or maintaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the company. We are also subject to a number of other laws and regulations relating to money laundering, international money transfers and electronic fund transfers. These laws apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents. 

If any of our operations are found to have violated or be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, among them being civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. 

Third-Party Reimbursement 

In the U.S., healthcare providers generally rely on third-party payors, principally private insurers and governmental payors such as Medicare and Medicaid, to cover and pay for all or part of the cost of a spine surgery in which our medical devices are used. We expect that sales volumes and prices of our products will depend in large part on the continued availability of reimbursement from such third-party payors. These third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not medically necessary in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Particularly in the U.S., third-party payors continue to carefully review, and increasingly challenge, the prices charged for procedures and medical products. Medicare coverage and reimbursement policies are developed by CMS, the federal agency responsible for administering the Medicare program, and its contractors. CMS establishes these Medicare policies for medical products and procedures and such policies are periodically reviewed and updated. While private payors vary in their coverage and payment policies, the Medicare program is viewed as a benchmark. Medicare payment rates for the same or similar procedures vary due to geographic location, nature of the facility in which the procedure is performed (i.e., teaching or community hospital) and other factors. We cannot assure you that government or private third-party payors will cover and provide adequate payment for the procedures in which our products are used. ACA and other reform proposals contain significant changes regarding Medicare, Medicaid and other third party payors. 

Among these changes was the imposition of a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of medical devices that went into effect on January 1, 2013. This tax has resulted in a significant increase in the tax burden on our industry. In December 2015, the U.S. Congress adopted and President Obama signed into law the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016. Among other things, this legislation put in place a two-year moratorium on the device tax through the end of 2017. 

Other elements of ACA include numerous provisions to limit Medicare spending through reductions in various fee schedule payments and by instituting more sweeping payment reforms, such as bundled payments for episodes of care, the establishment of &#8220;accountable care organizations&#8221; under which hospitals and physicians will be able to share savings that result from cost control efforts, comparative effectiveness research, value-based purchasing, and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board. Many of these provisions have been implemented through the regulatory process. In addition, in June 2012 the United States Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the minimum essential health insurance coverage rule, or so-called personal mandate, while holding that the federal government must give states the option to accept ACA&#8217;s Medical expansion provisions without risk of losing all federal Medicaid funds. Pursuant to that ruling, several states have declined to expand Medicaid coverage. For those states, the failure to expand its Medicaid program as prescribed in ACA will restrict the ability of populations potentially served by such expansion to use our products. Other proposals have been introduced in Congress to repeal the device tax and various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. An expansion in government&#8217;s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes, and adversely affect our business and results of operations, possibly materially. 

Internationally, healthcare payment systems vary substantially from country to country and include single-payor, government-managed systems as well as systems in which private payors and government-managed systems exist side-by-side. Our ability to achieve market acceptance or significant sales volume in international markets we enter will be dependent in large part on the availability of reimbursement for procedures performed using our products under the healthcare payment systems in such markets. A small number of countries may require us to gather additional clinical data before covering our products. It is our intent to complete the requisite clinical studies and obtain coverage in countries where it makes economic sense to do so. 

We believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the healthcare industry to reduce the costs of products and services. We cannot assure you that government or private third-party payors will cover and provide adequate payment for the procedures using our products. In 

addition, it is possible that future legislation, regulation, or reimbursement policies of third-party payors will adversely affect the demand for procedures using our products or our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. The unavailability or inadequacy of third-party payor coverage or reimbursement could have a significant adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 430 employees worldwide in the following areas: sales, customer service, marketing, clinical education, manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, quality assurance, regulatory affairs, research and development, human resources, finance, legal, information technology and administration. We have never experienced a work stoppage due to labor difficulties and believe that our relations with our employees are good. Certain employees in Europe have labor committees and collective bargaining agreements in place. 

Corporate and Available Information 

We are a Delaware corporation. We were incorporated in March 2005. Our principal executive office is located at 5818 El Camino Real, Carlsbad, California 92008. Our Internet address is www.alphatecspine.com. By referring to our website, we do not incorporate the website or any portion of the website by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are not including the information contained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are available to you free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. 

