 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

General 

&#160; 

We are a national distributor of brand name electronic components and supplier of original designed and manufactured (&#8220;ODM&#8221;) electronic components (&#8220;ODM Components&#8221;), with our product offerings ranging from discrete semiconductors &#160; through small electronic devices. We also offer value-added engineering and turn-key services, focusing on providing contract electronic manufacturers (&#8220;CEM&#8221;s) and original equipment manufacturers (&#8220;OEM&#8221;s) with ODM services for their multi-year turn-key projects (&#8220;ODM Projects&#8221;). We are incorporated in California, and were originally formed in 1989. We maintain a majority-owned subsidiary in Mexico (our Mexico subsidiary sales and distribution operations closed in May 2013) and two divisions in each of Taiwan and China. 

We have developed a reputation for stocking a large selection of inventories and having an in-depth knowledge of the products in our markets. Our &#8220;superstore&#8221; strategy consists of carrying a large quantity and variety of components in inventory to meet the rapid delivery requirements of our customers. To differentiate from other distributors, we also offer ODM Components, which are manufactured electronic components based on our own engineering specifications under the private label brand &#8220;TCI&#8221; through manufacturing partners. At December 31, 2015, our inventory consisted of approximately 12,000 different products manufactured by more than 100 different suppliers. In 2015 and 2014, we offered approximately 39 and 26, respectively, different ODM Projects that are manufactured to specifications developed as a result of our ODM services. Our Taiwan and China locations provide support for inventory sourcing, purchases and coordinating the manufacture of our ODM Components and ODM Projects (collectively we refer to as &#8220;ODM Products&#8221;). Our China location also serves as the engineering center responsible for making component datasheets and test specifications, arranging pre-production and mass production at our manufacturer partners, preparing samples, monitoring the quality of shipments, performing failure analysis reports, and designing circuits with partners for ODM projects. 

Discrete semiconductors are basic electronic building blocks. One or more different types of discrete semiconductors generally are found in the electronic or power supply circuitry of products as diverse as automobiles, televisions, radios, telephones, computers, medical equipment, airplanes, industrial robotics and household appliances. The term &#8220;discrete&#8221; is used to differentiate those single function semiconductor products which are packaged alone, such as transistors or diodes, from those which are &#8220;integrated&#8221; into microchips and other integrated circuit devices. 

The U.S. electronics distribution industry is composed of national, international, regional and local distributors. Electronics distributors market numerous products, including active components (such as transistors, microprocessors and integrated circuits), passive components (such as capacitors and resistors) and electromechanical, interconnect and computer products. We focus our distribution efforts almost exclusively on discrete semiconductors, optoelectronic devices and passive components, a small subset of the electronic components market. 

&#160;

&#160; 

&#160;

Discrete Semiconductors and Commodity Integrated Circuits 

Semiconductors can be broadly divided into two categories - discrete semiconductors , including transistors, diodes, rectifiers and bridges, which are packaged individually to perform a single or limited function, and integrated circuits (&#8220;IC&#8221;s) , such as microprocessors and other &#8220;chips,&#8221; which can contain from a few to several million transistors and other elements in a single package, which are usually designed to perform complex tasks. However, the commodity ICs, a combination of a limited number of discrete and passive components in one package, are far less sophisticated than other integrated circuits and perform simple tasks in circuits similar to discrete components. 

While other integrated circuits may garner more public exposure, discrete semiconductors and commodity ICs, the ancestral root of today&#8217;s complicated integrated circuits, have been a core element of electric equipment for more than 30 years. Discrete semiconductors and commodity ICs are found in most consumer, computer, communication, automotive, instrumentation, medical, industrial and military electrical and electronic applications. 

Discrete semiconductors and commodity ICs represent only a small subset of the different types of semiconductors currently available. Discrete semiconductors and commodity ICs are generally more mature products with a more predictable demand, more stable pricing and more constant sourcing than other products in the semiconductor industry, and are thus less susceptible to technological obsolescence than other, more complex, integrated circuits. 

Optoelectronic Devices and Passive Components 

In addition to discrete semiconductors, we offer optoelectronic devices such as LED&#8217;s, infrared sensors and opto couplers, along with passive devices, such as resistors, capacitors and inductors which are electronic components manufactured with non-semiconductor materials. We market these optoelectronic devices and passive components through the same channels, as the discrete semiconductors. Sales of these optoelectronic devices and passive components were approximately 16% and 24% of our total sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. During 2015 and 2014, we purchased $900,000 and $800,000, respectively, of inventory for these components to facilitate our market for these products. 

Electronics Distribution Channels 

Electronic component manufacturers, which we refer to as suppliers, sell components directly to CEMs and OEMs, as well as to distributors. The practice among the major suppliers is generally to focus their direct selling efforts on larger volume customers, while utilizing distributors to reach small and medium-sized CEMs and OEMs, as well as smaller distributors. Many suppliers consider electronic distributors to be an integral part of their businesses. As a stocking, marketing and financial intermediary, the distributor relieves its suppliers of a portion of their costs and personnel associated with stocking and selling products, including otherwise sizable investments in warehousing, logistics and finished goods inventories. By having geographically dispersed selling and delivery capabilities, distributors are often able to serve small and medium-sized companies more effectively and economically than can the supplier. 

Electronic distributors are also important to CEMs and OEMs. CEMs and OEMs frequently place orders which are of insufficient size to be placed directly with the suppliers or require delivery schedules not available from suppliers. Distributors offer product availability, selection and more rapid and flexible delivery schedules keyed to meet the requirements of their CEM and OEM customers. Also, they often rely upon electronic distributors to provide timely, knowledgeable access to electronic components. 

There is also pressure on the suppliers, CEMs and OEMs to maintain small inventories. Inventory is costly to maintain and thus suppliers desire to ship finished goods as soon as the goods are manufactured. CEMs and OEMs typically demand &#8220;just in time&#8221; delivery -- receipt of their requirements immediately prior to the time when the components are to be used. Distributors fill this niche. 

ODM Service Industry 

ODM service providers have experienced rapid change and growth as an increasing number of OEMs outsource their manufacturing requirements. OEMs have continued to turn to outsourcing in order to reduce product cost; achieve accelerated time-to-market and time-to-volume production; access advanced design and manufacturing technologies; improve inventory management and purchasing power; and reduce their capital investment in manufacturing resources. This enables OEMs to concentrate on what they believe to be their core strengths, such as new product definition, design, marketing and sales. We believe further growth opportunities exist for ODM service providers to penetrate the worldwide market. By designing private brand products to OEM customers in the US, we are able to expand export sales to overseas CEM customers. 

&#160;

&#160; 

&#160;

&#8220;Superstore&#8221; Strategy 

Since 1997, we have marketed ourselves as the &#8220;discrete components superstore,&#8221; with an in-depth focus on discrete semiconductors, passive and optoelectronic components and extensive inventory of a wide variety of these products. In creating the &#8220;superstore&#8221; strategy, we have attempted to develop a more efficient link between suppliers and the small and medium-sized customers which generally do not have direct access to large suppliers and must purchase exclusively through distributors. The primary aspects of our &#8220;superstore&#8221; strategy include: 

Reliable One Stop Shopping: Large Inventory . We believe that our most important competitive advantage is the depth of our inventory. Unlike other distributors who carry only the best-selling discrete components, we offer a large selection of different name-brand discrete semiconductors, optoelectronic devices and passive components. Because of our large inventory, we often can fill a significant portion, or all, of a customer&#8217;s order from stock. Also, we have been able to fill most of our customers&#8217; orders within 24 hours and in compliance with their requested delivery schedules. However, we are also focusing on lowering our inventory levels to balance the weakened demand we have experienced for our products over the past several years. With immediate availability of a wide selection of products and brands, we believe that sales may grow if the market rebounds. See Part II, Item 7 &#8211; &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis - Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8221;. 

Private Brand and Custom Made Parts . To assure the best quality of the product with the most competitive price, we choose the best product lines among existing suppliers and market it under the &#8220;TCI&#8221; brand. These private label products, or ODM Components, are manufactured according to our specifications under a special contract agreement with manufacturing partners. Custom made parts are also available by following either the customer&#8217;s specifications or specially made engineering specifications. We believe the ODM Components business is more stable and profitable than the traditional commodity type business. The export sales are driven primarily from private brand products designed in the US by OEMs who later outsource the production to their overseas CEMs. 

Support Small Distributors, CEMs and OEMs . We focus our marketing efforts on small contract manufacturers, distributors, CEMs and OEMs who generally do not have direct access to suppliers because of their limited purchasing volumes and, therefore, usually have to purchase their requirements from large distributors, often with substantial markups. 

Web Order Entry (WOE) and Customer Drop Shipment (CDS). The demand of web purchasing from buyers around the world is growing rapidly. We have developed a web order entry system for existing customers to access our inventory and to place purchase orders in real time. Not only will they get the sales order and shipment confirmation on the same day, but also be able to assign the drop shipments to their customers directly. We believe this is a new trend for many local distributors and brokers who want to serve their customers more effectively and efficiently without material handling costs. 

Master Distributor . We distribute electronic components to other distributors, including nationwide distributors, when their inventory cannot fulfill immediate customer orders. With its higher volume, lower cost inventory, we act as a master distributor for certain of its component suppliers. We estimate in 2015 and 2014, that approximately 19% and 18%, respectively, of our sales are a direct result of being a master distributor. 

Preferred Distributors . We developed a Preferred Distributor Agreement with certain selective distributor customers to promote a much stronger business relationship. Under these agreements, our preferred distributors are required to provide point of sales (POS) reports which identify the distributor&#8217;s customers and we provide these preferred distributors with limited price protection, limited stock rotations and return privileges among other benefits. As of the date of this Report, we maintain Preferred Distributor Agreements with 6 selective distributors. 

Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI). As a part of our warehouse management system, VMI not only allocates the forecasted inventory by the contract but also guarantees the same day shipment for customers who frequently change their shipping schedule driven by MRP demand. The VMI system is fully operational from the web by VMI managers who could either be our sales representatives, customers or employees. 

Service Strategy and ODM Products 

We offer value-added ODM services to our existing OEM and CEM customers utilizing our engineering design center in Shanghai, China. The sales of our ODM Products were $3,700,000 and $3,900,000 in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Strategic allies such as Teamforce Co. Ltd., Grand Shine Management (see Part II, Item 8: Note 4 &#8211; Other Assets) and Zowie Technology Corporation (see Part II, Item 8: Note 4 &#8211; Other Assets) assist us with this program by providing us with engineering support services in our ODM projects in order to lower costs and to shorten the design cycle. 

&#160;

&#160; 

&#160;

By offering application engineering service to current customers, we are often involved in reviewing their bill of materials (BOMs) and circuit diagrams. Based upon their credit history, type of products, production volume, profitability of the industry and circuit schematics, we offer different solutions for quality improvement, additional functions and cost savings through the re-design processes such as component replacement, digital circuit instead of analog circuit, microprocessor instead of logic circuit, integrated circuit instead of discrete components. Our preference is to target low but increasing volume, high margin, stable demand, profitable and specialty products, and financially stable customers who know how to market their products. Our strengths are microprocessor programming, power supply, power management, LED message sign, RF transmission and receiving, encoder and decoder, remote controller, DC motor control and power amplifier. In many cases, we are able to take advantage of our component distribution capability by using current stock to reduce lead time and choosing the low cost components we currently sell. We depend on our outsourcing partners in mold design, plastic injection, metal stamping, wire hardness and final assembly. We ask between 15% to 30% down payment before accepting a purchase order and offer customers 30 to 60 days payment terms. All purchasing orders must have a firm delivery schedule under a non-cancelable and non-returnable (NCNR) agreement. To reduce the manufacturing and handling cost, we arrange production of the same model once a year and keep product in our warehouse to be released according to the predetermined schedule. 

We utilize our existing inventory management system and established distribution relationships to facilitate the manufacturing and distribution of such products. Our ODM Service complements our &#8220;Superstore&#8221; strategy and facilitates additional utilization of electronic components for the manufacture of our ODM Products. 

Products 

Electronic Components &#8211; Discrete 

We market a wide variety of discrete semiconductors, including rectifiers (or power diodes), diodes, transistors, optoelectronic devices and passive components, to other electronic distributors, contract electronic manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers, who incorporate them in their products. At December 31, 2015, our inventory consisted of over 12,000 different products manufactured by more than 100 different suppliers. 

In 2015 and 2014, we purchased electronic component products from approximately 40 different suppliers, including Everlight Electronics Co, Ltd., Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co., Vishay Americas Inc. and Zowie Technology Corporation (see Part II, Item 8: Note 4 &#8211; Other Assets). 

Discrete semiconductors are categorized based on various factors, including current handling capacity, construction, packaging, fabrication and function. The products we sell include: 

Rectifiers . Rectifiers generally are utilized in power supply and other high power applications to convert alternating current to direct current. We sell a wide variety of rectifiers, including silicon rectifiers, fast efficient rectifiers, Schottky rectifiers, glass passivated rectifiers, fast efficient glass passivated rectifiers, silicon bridge rectifiers, fast recovery, glass passivated bridge rectifiers and controlled avalanche bridge rectifiers. 

Diodes . Diodes are two-lead semiconductors that only allow electric current to flow in one direction. They are used in a variety of electronic applications, including signal processing and direction of current. Diodes sold by us include switching diodes, varistors, germanium diodes and zener diodes. 

Transistors . Transistors are used in, among other applications, the processing or amplification of electric current and electronic signals, including data, television, sound and power. We currently sell many types of transistors, including small signal transistors, power transistors and power MOSFETS. 

Optoelectronic Devices . Optoelectronic devices are solid state products which provide light displays (such as LEDs), optical links and fiber-optic signal coupling. Applications vary from digital displays on consumer video equipment to fiber optic transmission of computer signals to pattern sensing for regulation, such as those found in automobile cruise controls. Optoelectronic devices generally are not classified as discrete semiconductors or integrated circuits, although they incorporate semiconductor materials. 

Passive Components . Passive components are a type of electronic component manufactured with non-semiconductor materials. Passive components such as resistors, capacitors and inductors are used in electronic circuitry but they do not provide amplification. Passive components are basic electronic components found in virtually all electronic products. 

&#160;

&#160; 

&#160;

The products distributed by us are mature products that are used in a wide range of commercial and industrial products and industries. We believe that a majority of the products we distribute are used in applications where integrated circuits are not viable alternatives. However, a risk exists that over time the functions and technologies for which our discrete electronic components are used may eventually be displaced by integrated circuits. 

We purchase products from manufacturers who provide warranties for their products that are common in the industry and therefore we conduct limited quality monitoring of our products. We are certified according to the International Standardization Organization (ISO) and we maintain our certificate under the quality standard ISO 9001:2008. 

Our distribution of electronic components originates from our 50,000 square-foot facility located in Valencia, California. We utilize a computerized inventory control/tracking system which enables us to quickly access inventory levels and trace product shipments. See Item 2 - &#8220;Properties.&#8221; 

ODM Projects 

Our ODM Projects are custom made and are marketed in specific industries such as: wild animal feeders, timers for DC motor, public street light controllers, LED modules for swimming pools and water fountain lights, LED headlamps for vacuum cleaners, battery testers, universal remote control devices and battery chargers. 

Our distribution of ODM Projects originates from our 50,000 square-foot facility located in Valencia, California. We utilize a computerized inventory control/tracking system which enables us to quickly access inventory levels and trace product shipments. See Item 2 - &#8220;Properties.&#8221; 

Customers 

We market our products to distributors, CEMs and OEMs, and our ODM Services to CEMs and OEMs. We believe that our strategic purchasing policies allow us to provide smaller and medium-sized distributors, CEMs and OEMs competitive prices on discrete electronic components while maintaining an adequate profit margin. As a rule, we do not impose minimum order limitations, which enable customers to avoid the cost of carrying large inventories. See &#8220;Business - Strategy.&#8221; 

During each year 2015 and 2014, we distributed our products to approximately 350 customers, however our two largest customers combined accounted for approximately 47% (individually by approximately 37% and 10%) of net sales during 2015 and approximately 38% (individually by approximately 27% and 11%) during 2014. 

In 2015, distributors represented 18% of our 2015 net sales, while both CEMs and OEMs combined represented 80% with the remaining 2% represented by other exporters and overseas customers. 

We historically have not required our distributor customers to provide any point of sale reporting and therefore we do not know the different industries in which our products are sold by our distributor customers. However, based on our sales to CEMs and OEMs, we believe that no particular industry accounted for a majority of the applications of our discrete electronic component products sold in 2015 or 2014. 

We offer customers inventory support which includes carrying inventory for their specific needs and providing free samples of our products. We also offer customers a limited range of value-added services, such as lead cutting and bending for specific applications, enhanced quality monitoring and product source tracing, however to date, these value-added services have not been material to our business or results of operations. 

We believe that exceptional customer service and customer relations are key elements of our success, and train our sales force to provide prompt, efficient and courteous service to all customers. See &#8220;Business - Sales and Marketing Channels.&#8221; We have the ability to ship most orders the same day they are placed and, historically, most of our customers&#8217; orders have been shipped within the requested delivery schedule. 

As our customers grow in size, we may lose our larger customers to our own discrete electronic components suppliers and as the electronics distribution industry consolidates, some of our customers may be acquired by competitors. 

Sales and Marketing Channels 

As of March 2, 2016, our sales and marketing department consisted of 8 employees. We have centralized our sales order processing and customer service department into our headquarters at Valencia, California. Our inside sales and customer service departments are divided into regional sales territories throughout North America. The outside sales account managers are also responsible for developing new CEM and OEM accounts, as well as working locally with our independent sales representatives and preferred distributors. 

&#160;

&#160; 

&#160;

We have sales channels into Asia through our branch offices in Shanghai, China and Taipei, Taiwan. Sales to Asia were $510,000 and $450,000 in 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Independent sales representatives have played an important role in developing our client base, especially with respect to OEMs. Many OEMs want their suppliers to have a local presence and our network of independent sales representatives is responsive to those needs. Independent sales representatives are primarily responsible for face-to-face meetings with our customers, and for developing new customers. Independent sales representatives are each given responsibility for a specific geographic territory. Typically, sales representatives are only compensated for sales made to CEMs, OEMs and preferred distributors. We believe that this commission policy directs independent sales representatives&#8217; attention to those end users with potential to increase market share. Along with our independent sales representatives, we jointly advertise and participate in trade shows. We utilized 6 independent sales representatives during 2015. 

We provide customers with catalogs that are specially designed to aid them to quickly find the types and brands of discrete semiconductors and passive and optoelectronic devices that they need. 

Suppliers 

We believe that it&#8217;s important to develop and maintain good relationships with our discrete electronic component suppliers, since we do not have long-term supply, distribution or franchise agreements with any of our suppliers. Instead, we cultivate strong working relationships with each of our suppliers. 

In order to facilitate good relationships with our suppliers, we typically carry a complete line of each supplier&#8217;s discrete products. We also support our suppliers by increasing their visibility through advertising and participation in regional and national trade shows. We generally order components far in advance, helping suppliers plan their production. Outstanding commitments to purchase inventory from suppliers as of March 1, 2016 were approximately $1,400,000. 

In 2015, we purchased components from approximately 40 different suppliers, including Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co., Everlight Electronics Co, Ltd., Vishay Americas Inc. and Zowie Technology Corporation (see Part II, Item 8: Note 4 &#8211; Other Assets). While we are continually attempting to build relationships with suppliers and from time to time add new suppliers in an attempt to provide our customers with a better product mix, the possibility exists that our relationship with a supplier may be terminated. 

For the year ended December 31, 2015, the following name brands, Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co., Everlight Electronics Co, Ltd. and Vishay Americas Inc. collectively accounted for approximately 15% of our net purchases for name brand distributed components. However, we do not regard any one supplier as essential to our operations, since equivalent replacements for most of the products we market are either available from one or more of our other suppliers or are available from various other sources at competitive prices. We believe that, even if we lose a direct relationship with a supplier, there exist alternative sources for another supplier&#8217;s products. 

In connection with our ODM services, we have built special partnership agreements with few selected system integration companies in China. These agreements ensure the quality of the products and services and also provide a warranty on the finished products. Most of the projects involve multiple years of cooperation among components suppliers, overseas partners and the end customers in the US, and therefore, increase business stability and reduce the financial risk of excess inventory. 

Competition 

We operate our discrete electronic components business in a highly competitive environment and face competition from numerous local, regional and national distributors (both in purchasing and selling inventory) and electronic component manufacturers, including some of our own suppliers. Many of our competitors are more established and have greater name recognition and financial and marketing resources than us. We believe that competition in the electronics industry is based on breadth of product lines, product availability, brand name, customer service, response time, competitive pricing and product knowledge, as well as value-added services. We believe we compete effectively with respect to breadth and availability of inventory, response time, pricing and product knowledge. Generally, large component manufacturers and large distributors do not focus their internal selling efforts on small and medium-sized OEMs and distributors, which constitute the vast majority of our customers. However, should our customers increase in size, component manufacturers may find it cost effective to focus direct sales efforts on those customers, which could result in the loss of customers or decreased selling prices. 

&#160;

&#160; 

&#160;

The ODM services we provide are available from many independent sources as well as from the in-house manufacturing capabilities of current and potential customers. Our competitors may be more established in the industry and have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, or marketing resources than we do. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our targeted markets are our engineering capabilities, product quality, flexibility, cost and timeliness in responding to design and schedule changes, reliability in meeting product delivery schedules, pricing, technological sophistication and geographic location.&#160;In addition, in recent years, original design manufacturers that provide design and manufacturing services to OEMs have significantly increased their share of outsourced manufacturing services provided to OEMs in the consumer electronic product market. Competition from ODMs may increase if our business in these markets grows or if ODMs expand further into these markets. 

Management Information Systems 

We have made a significant investment in computer hardware, software and personnel. The Management Information Systems (MIS) department is responsible for software and hardware upgrades, maintenance of current software and related databases, and designing custom systems. We believe that our MIS department is crucial to our success and believe in continually upgrading our hardware and software. We also developed a vendor management inventory software program which allows participating customers to access and manage their own inventory through the internet. The web site also provides users with other current information about us. 

Warehouse Management System 

We utilize a wireless, fully bar-coded warehouse perpetual inventory tracking system that greatly enhances the processing speed, accuracy of product quantity and location control within the warehouse. It also reduces potential errors and accelerates the delivery of components to our customers. We continuously improve our warehouse management system with custom programming features. 

Foreign Trade Regulation 

A large portion of the products we distribute are manufactured in Asia, including Taiwan, Hong Kong, Japan, China, South Korea, Thailand and the Philippines. The purchase of goods manufactured in foreign countries is subject to a number of risks, including economic disruptions, transportation delays and interruptions, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, imposition of tariffs and import and export controls, and changes in governmental policies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 

Sales to Asian customers were 9% and 7.7% of our total sales in 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

From time to time, protectionist pressures have influenced U.S. trade policy concerning the imposition of significant duties or other trade restrictions upon foreign products. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. customs quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions will be imposed upon the importation of foreign components in the future or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

The ability to remain competitive with respect to the pricing of imported components could be adversely affected by increases in tariffs or duties, changes in trade treaties, strikes in air or sea transportation, and possible future U.S. legislation with respect to pricing and import quotas on products from foreign countries. For example, it is possible that political or economic developments in China, or with respect to the United States&#8217; relationship with China, could have an adverse effect on our business. Our ability to remain competitive also could be affected by other governmental actions related to, among other things, anti-dumping legislation and international currency fluctuations. While we do not believe that any of these factors adversely impact our business at present, we cannot assure you that these factors will not materially adversely affect us in the future. Any significant disruption in the delivery of merchandise from our suppliers, substantially all of whom are foreign, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 

Employees 

As of March 2, 2016, our company consisted of 20 employees, all of whom are employed on a full time basis. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and we consider our relations with employees to be good. 

&#160;

&#160; 

Website Availability of Our Reports Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission 

We maintain a website (http://www.taitroncomponents.com), but we are not including the information contained on this website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through this website our annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files that material with, or furnish the material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

