 ITEM 1. Business. General 

We are a registered bank holding company headquartered in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. We were incorporated on July 20, 2006 to serve as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the &#147;BHC Act&#148;) for our wholly-owned subsidiary, Business First Bank. We became the parent company of Business First Bank on April 1, 2007, and we currently own all of the outstanding shares of the capital stock of Business First Bank. As of December 31, 2015, on a consolidated basis, we had total assets of $1.1 billion, total loans of $772.4 million, total deposits of $904.2 million and shareholders&#146; equity of $112.4 million. 

Business First Bank is a Louisiana state non-member bank that was established in February of 2006. Business First Bank serves the state of Louisiana with sixteen banking centers, with offices located in the Louisiana cities of Baton Rouge, Brusly, Covington, Denham Springs, Erwinville, Gonzales, Houma, Lafayette, Lake Charles, Port Allen, Shreveport and Zachary. Business First Bank also has a Loan Production Office in the New Orleans Metro area. Business First is organized into three regions, each of which is led by an experienced Regional Chief Executive Officer. Within each region, Business First Bank has experienced bankers led by a local market president who are all involved in the community and industry. Business First Bank&#146;s principal office is located in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. 

Business First Bank offers a full range of banking services, including commercial and consumer banking. As of December 31, 2015, Business First Bank had total assets of $1.1 billion, total loans of $772.4 million, total deposits of $904.6 million and shareholders&#146; equity of $113.3 million. 

Our principal executive office is located at Business First Bank Plaza, 8440 Jefferson Highway, Suite 101, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70809. Our telephone number is (225) 248-7600 and our website address is www.b1bank.com. 

Our Business Strategy 

Our mission is to be the financial institution of choice for Louisiana enterprises and their owners and employees. To achieve this mission, we concentrate our resources on two fronts: convenience-enhancing technology and products and recruitment, retention and empowerment of world class employees. We believe a bank should be measured by the value it adds to its customer&#146;s business processes. 

The focus of our strategy has been, and continues to be, the establishment and enhancement of an attractive commercial banking franchise by maximizing long-term shareholder value through growth in our loans, investments, deposits and net income in a manner consistent with safe, sound and prudent banking practices while providing personalized customer service consistent with the needs of small- and mid-sized businesses, their owners and employees. To accomplish this goal, we utilize the following business strategy: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Offering competitive products and services at fair prices to expand loan and deposit market share and increase interest and non-interest income; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Providing high quality personal service delivered by skilled and experienced professionals who have a long-term commitment to the communities in which we conduct business; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Enhancing the banking options available to customers by offering a wide array of financial products with the latest technology; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Maintaining asset quality and control operating expense. We focus on providing private banking services primarily to small businesses and professionals. Rather than attempt to compete for customers with larger financial institutions on a transaction-by-transaction basis, we work to build robust, lasting partnerships with our customers. 

By locating in seven metropolitan areas and decentralizing as much decision-making authority as sound banking practices will permit, we endeavor to capture both the stability of geographic diversification within Louisiana and the loyalties of a customer base that only a locally-owned community bank can provide. Each market we serve has a local president and our director&#146;s loan committee is comprised of community leaders who have a stake in the institution. We believe that one of our greatest competitive advantages is the depth of our statewide network of entrepreneurial directors. 

&#160;

Consistent with our focus on service, we have invested heavily in people and technology, not just brick and mortar infrastructure. We operate with a limited number of more experienced personnel, while also limiting the number of our offices, providing universal ATM and internet account access, digital deposits, and personalized, flexible, name-recognizing service. 

We also endeavor to serve our constituent communities in unique ways&#151;hosting non-profit board meetings, for example, or encouraging our employees to participate in financially-centered volunteer efforts, whether that be serving as board members themselves or participating in school-based educational activities. Through these activities, we strive to foster relationships with community leaders and a reputation of positive involvement in our communities. 

Expansion 

With the exception of our March 31, 2015 acquisition of American Gateway Financial Corporation (&#147;AGFC&#148;) and its subsidiary, American Gateway Bank, we have historically grown organically by targeting markets in Louisiana that we believe provide attractive banking opportunities. Within these markets, we engage a local advisory board and hire local management. The purpose of these advisors and management is to build our banking franchise within their respective markets. We believe this structure provides many of the benefits of smaller, locally-owned banks while permitting us to serve multiple markets. 

While we continue to prioritize organic growth, we also seek to capitalize upon other opportunities as they arise. In particular, we will consider opportunities such as the 2015 acquisition of AGFC, which has enhanced our core deposits and provided cost savings through economies of scale. Other than some preliminary plans regarding possible expansion into the New Orleans, Louisiana market, we do not have any immediate plans for other acquisitions or expansion into new markets. We will, however, continue to evaluate growth opportunities and may add other markets to our geographic footprint as opportunities arise. 

Products and Services 

We are a full-service financial services company with a focus on small- to mid-sized businesses, their officers and employees. We satisfy our commercial and retail customers&#146; banking needs with an encompassing range of financial services. 

Business First Bank is an independent financial institution that is engaged in substantially all of the business operations customarily conducted by financial institutions in Louisiana. It offers, among other products, checking, savings and money market accounts, certificates of deposit, commercial and consumer loans, mortgage loans, real estate loans, and other installment and term loans. In addition, Business First Bank offers its customers wealth management products, drive-through banking facilities, automated teller machines, night depository, personalized checks, credit cards, debit cards, internet banking, electronic funds transfers through ACH services, domestic and foreign wire transfers, traveler&#146;s checks, cash management, vault services, loan and deposit sweep accounts, and lock box services. 

Subsidiaries 

We have three wholly-owned subsidiaries. Business First Bank is a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Business First. Business First Insurance LLC and American Gateway Insurance Agency, L.L.C. are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Business First Bank, and are, therefore, indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Business First. Business First Insurance LLC and American Gateway Insurance Agency L.L.C. are currently inactive, and do not engage in any material business activities. 

Competition 

We compete with several local and regional commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions and mortgage companies for deposits, loans, and other banking-related financial services. There is intense competition in our market areas from other financial institutions as well as other &#147;non-bank&#148; companies that engage in similar activities. Some of our competitors are not subject to the degree of regulatory review and restrictions that apply to us. In addition, we must compete with much larger financial institutions that have greater financial resources than we do, and that compete aggressively for market share. These competitors attempt to gain market share through their financial product mix, pricing strategies and banking center locations. We also compete with insurance companies, savings banks, consumer finance companies, investment banking firms, brokerage houses, mutual fund managers, investment advisors, and credit unions. Retail establishments compete for loans by offering credit cards and retail installment contracts for the purchase of goods and merchandise. 

&#160;

We anticipate that competition from both bank and non-bank entities will continue to grow. Accordingly, we build and implement strategic plans to address competitive factors in the various markets we serve. We have been able to compete effectively with other financial institutions by emphasizing customer service and local office decision-making, by establishing long-term customer relationships and building customer loyalty, and by providing products and services designed to address the specific needs of our customers. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 184 full-time equivalent employees, 75 of whom are officers of Business First Bank. We are committed to hiring and retaining high quality employees to execute our strategic plan, and we consider our relations with employees to be very good. 

Supervision and Regulation 

General 

The U.S. banking industry is highly regulated under federal and state law. Banking laws, regulations and policies affect our operations and those of our subsidiaries. 

As a bank holding company, we are subject to inspection, examination, supervision and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#147;Federal Reserve&#148;). Business First Bank is subject to extensive regulation and examination by the Louisiana Office of Financial Institutions (the &#147;Louisiana OFI&#148;) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#147;FDIC&#148;). 

Statutes, regulations and policies limit the activities in which we may engage and how we conduct certain permitted activities. The system of supervision and regulation applicable to us and our subsidiaries establishes a comprehensive framework for our respective operations and is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC&#146;s Deposit Insurance Fund, Business First Bank&#146;s depositors and the public, rather than our shareholders or creditors. Further, the bank regulatory system imposes reporting and information collection obligations. We incur significant costs relating to compliance with these laws and regulations. Banking statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress and state legislatures and regulatory agencies, and a change in them, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The material statutory and regulatory requirements that are applicable to us and to Business First Bank are summarized below. This description is not intended to describe all laws and regulations applicable to us and our subsidiaries, and the description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, policies, interpretive letters and other written guidance that are described herein. 

Business First Bancshares, Inc. 

We are a bank holding company registered under the BHC Act, and we are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. The BHC Act and other federal laws subject bank holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. 

Banking statutes, regulations and policies could restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of financial services, acquire depository institutions and make distributions or pay dividends on our equity securities. They may also require us to provide financial support to any bank that we control, maintain capital balances in excess of those desired by management and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a result of a general deterioration in the financial condition of Business First Bank. 

Business First Bank 

Business First Bank is a commercial bank chartered under the laws of the State of Louisiana and it is not a member of the Federal Reserve. In addition, its deposits are insured to the maximum extent permitted by law by the FDIC. As such, Business First Bank is subject to extensive regulation and examination by the Louisiana OFI and the FDIC. The federal and state laws and regulations which are applicable to Business First Bank regulate, among other things, the scope of its business, its investments, its reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds and the nature and amount of and collateral for certain loans. In addition to the impact of such regulations, commercial banks are affected significantly by the actions of the Federal Reserve in connection with its economic policy. 

&#160;

Broad Supervision and Enforcement Powers 

A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory system is to protect depositors by ensuring the financial safety and soundness of banking organizations. To that end, the banking regulators have broad regulatory, examination and enforcement authority. The regulators regularly examine the operations of banking organizations. In addition, banking organizations are subject to periodic reporting requirements. 

The regulators have various remedies available if they determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of a banking organization&#146;s operations are unsatisfactory. The regulators may also take action if they determine that the banking organization or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation. The regulators have the power to, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; enjoin &#147;unsafe or unsound&#148; practices; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; direct increases in capital; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; limit dividends and distributions; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; restrict growth; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; assess civil monetary penalties; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; remove officers and directors; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; terminate deposit insurance. The FDIC may terminate a depository institution&#146;s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution&#146;s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution&#146;s regulatory agency. Engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements could subject us and our subsidiaries or their officers, directors and institution-affiliated parties to the remedies described above and other sanctions. 

The Dodd-Frank Act 

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act became law. The Dodd-Frank Act is having a broad impact on the financial services industry, and imposes significant regulatory and compliance requirements, including the designation of certain financial companies as systemically important financial companies, the changing roles of credit rating agencies, the imposition of increased capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements, and numerous other provisions designed to improve supervision and oversight of, and strengthen safety and soundness within, the financial services sector. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a new framework of authority to conduct systemic risk oversight within the financial system to be distributed among new and existing federal regulatory agencies. 

The following items provide a brief description of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that are most relevant to us and to Business First Bank. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Source of strength . Under Federal Reserve policy, bank holding companies have historically been required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of their banking subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act codified this policy as a statutory requirement. The Dodd-Frank Act requires all companies, including bank holding companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution, to serve as a source of strength for the institution. Under this requirement, in the future we could be required to provide financial assistance to Business First Bank should it experience financial distress. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau . The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#147;CFPB&#148;) as a new, independent regulatory agency. The CFPB is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws governing the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has rulemaking authority over many of the statutes governing products and services offered to bank and thrift consumers. For banking organizations with assets of $10 billion or more, the CFPB has exclusive rule making and examination, and primary enforcement authority under federal consumer financial laws. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated by the CFPB. Compliance with any such new regulations would increase our cost of operations. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Mortgage loan origination rules . The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages, including requirements for lenders to affirmatively determine that their borrowers have the ability to repay their mortgage loans. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, financial institutions may not make a residential mortgage loan unless they make a &#147;reasonable and good faith determination&#148; that the consumer has a &#147;reasonable ability&#148; to repay the loan. The Dodd-Frank Act allows borrowers to bring civil claims and raise certain defenses to foreclosure if the lender does not make an appropriate ability-to-repay determination. The CFBP&#146;s rules, however, provide a full or partial safe harbor from such liability and defenses for loans that are &#147;qualified mortgages.&#148; The ability-to-repay rule is just one among many of the CFPB&#146;s new rules that will affect origination, disclosure and servicing in connection with consumer mortgages. Many of the CFPB&#146;s new rules governing mortgage loan origination became effective in January of 2014. Additional regulations revising disclosure and timing requirements in connection with mortgage loan origination became effective in October of 2015. Compliance with all of the CFPB&#146;s new mortgage rules will increase our cost of operations. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Deposit insurance . The Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the increased $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. Amendments to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (&#147;FDI Act&#148;), also revised the assessment base against which an insured depository institution&#146;s deposit insurance premiums paid to the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC will be calculated. Under the amendments, the assessment base is no longer the institution&#146;s deposit base, but rather its average consolidated total assets less its average tangible equity. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act made changes to the minimum designated reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund, increasing the minimum from 1.15% to 1.35% of the estimated amount of total insured deposits, and eliminating the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. Several of these provisions may impact the FDIC deposit insurance premiums paid by Business First Bank. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Transactions with affiliates and insiders . The Dodd-Frank Act generally enhanced the restrictions on transactions with affiliates under Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, including an expansion of the definition of &#147;covered transactions&#148; and clarification regarding the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered credit transactions must be satisfied. Insider transaction limitations are expanded through the strengthening of loan restrictions to insiders and the expansion of the types of transactions subject to the various limits, including derivatives transactions, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements and securities lending or borrowing transactions. Restrictions are also placed on certain asset sales to and from an insider to an institution, including requirements that such sales be on market terms and, in certain circumstances, approved by the institution&#146;s board of directors. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Corporate governance . The Dodd-Frank Act addresses many investor protection, corporate governance and executive compensation matters that will affect most U.S. publicly traded companies. The Dodd-Frank Act (1) grants shareholders of U.S. publicly traded companies an advisory vote on executive compensation; (2) enhances independence requirements for compensation committee members; (3) requires companies listed on national securities exchanges to adopt incentive-based compensation clawback policies for executive officers and (4) provides the SEC with authority to adopt proxy access rules that would allow shareholders of publicly traded companies to nominate candidates for election as a director and have those nominees included in a company&#146;s proxy materials. For so long as we are an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of the provisions of the JOBS Act allowing us to not seek a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation or golden parachute arrangements, but we will remain subject to many of the other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to investor protection and corporate governance. The requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act are in the process of being implemented over time and most will be subject to regulations implemented over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act could negatively impact the 

&#160;

profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. 

Failure to comply with the new requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Regulatory Notice and Approval Requirements Related to Control 

Banking laws impose notice, approval and ongoing regulatory requirements on any shareholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect &#147;control&#148; of an FDIC-insured depository institution. These laws include the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act. Among other things, these laws require regulatory filings by a shareholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect &#147;control&#148; of an FDIC-insured depository institution. The determination whether an investor &#147;controls&#148; a depository institution is based on all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the investment. As a general matter, a party is deemed to control a depository institution or other company if the party owns or controls 25% or more of any class of voting stock. Subject to rebuttal, a party may be presumed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 10% or more of any class of voting stock. Ownership by affiliated parties, or parties acting in concert, is typically aggregated for these purposes. If a party&#146;s ownership of Business First were to exceed certain thresholds, the investor could be deemed to &#147;control&#148; Business First for regulatory purposes. This could subject the investor to regulatory filings or other regulatory consequences. 

In addition, except under limited circumstances, bank holding companies are prohibited from acquiring, without prior approval, (1) control of any other bank or bank holding company or all or substantially all the assets thereof or (2) more than 5% of the voting shares of a bank or bank holding company which is not already a subsidiary. 

Branching 

Louisiana law provides that a Louisiana state bank can establish a branch anywhere in Louisiana provided that the branch is approved in advance by the Louisiana OFI. The branch also must be approved by the FDIC. When considering whether to approve the establishment of a branch, the Louisiana OFI and the FDIC consider a number of factors, including financial history, capital adequacy, earnings prospects, character of management, needs of the community and consistency with corporate powers. The Dodd-Frank Act permits insured state banks to engage in de novo interstate branching if the laws of the state where the new branch is to be established would permit the establishment of the branch if the branching bank were chartered by such state. 

Limits on Transactions with Affiliates 

Federal law restricts the amount and the terms of both credit and noncredit transactions (generally referred to as &#147;covered transactions&#148;) between a bank and its nonbank affiliates. Covered transactions with any single affiliate may not exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of a bank, and covered transactions with all affiliates may not exceed, in the aggregate, 20% of a bank&#146;s capital stock and surplus. For a bank, capital stock and surplus refers to the bank&#146;s Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, as calculated under the risk-based capital guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for credit losses excluded from Tier 2 capital. A bank&#146;s transactions with all of its affiliates in the aggregate are limited to 20% of the foregoing capital. In addition, in connection with covered transactions that are extensions of credit, a bank may be required to hold collateral to provide added security to the bank and the types of permissible collateral may be limited. The Dodd-Frank Act generally enhances the restrictions on transactions with affiliates, including an expansion of what types of transactions are covered transactions to include credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements and an increase in the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered transactions must be satisfied. 

Loans to Insiders 

Sections 22(g) and (h) of the Federal Reserve Act and its implementing regulation, Regulation O, place restrictions on loans by a bank to executive officers, directors and principal shareholders. Under Section 22(h), loans to a director, an executive officer and to a greater than 10.0% shareholder of a bank and certain of their related interests or insiders and insiders of affiliates, may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such person and related interests, a bank&#146;s loans-to-one-borrower limit (generally equal to 15.0% of the institution&#146;s unimpaired capital and surplus). Section 22(h) also requires that loans to insiders and to insiders of affiliates be made on terms substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons, unless the loans are made pursuant to a benefit or compensation program that (1) is widely available to employees of the bank and (2) does not give preference to insiders over other employees of the bank. Section 22(h) also requires prior board of directors&#146; approval for certain loans and the aggregate amount of extensions of credit by a bank to all insiders cannot exceed the institution&#146;s unimpaired capital and surplus. Furthermore, Section 22(g) places additional restrictions on loans to executive officers. 

&#160;

Depositor Preference 

The FDI Act provides that, in the event of the &#147;liquidation or other resolution&#148; of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. Therefore, if an insured depository institution like Business First Bank fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including us, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Dividend Restrictions 

We have not historically paid any dividends on our common stock. Although our board of directors has made a preliminary decision to commence payment of regular quarterly dividends beginning in the first quarter of 2016, we are not required to pay dividends. Our shareholders will be entitled to receive dividends out of legally available funds as and when declared by our board of directors, in its sole discretion. 

As a Louisiana corporation, we are subject to certain restrictions on dividends under the Louisiana Business Corporation Act. Generally, under Louisiana law, we may not pay a dividend if (i) after giving effect to the dividend, we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business, (ii) after giving effect to the dividend, our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed, if we were to be dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy any preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution, or (iii) the declaration or payment thereof would be contrary to any restrictions contained in our articles of incorporation. Also, as a bank holding company, we are required by the Federal Reserve to serve as a source of financial strength for Business First Bank. The Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company generally should not maintain a rate of dividends to shareholders unless its net income available has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the bank holding company&#146;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. 

We do not engage in separate business activities of a material nature. As a result, our ability to pay dividends depends upon the dividends received from Business First Bank. As a Louisiana state bank, Business First Bank&#146;s ability to pay dividends is restricted by certain laws and regulations. Under the Louisiana Banking Law, Business First Bank may not declare or pay cash or property dividends unless it has unimpaired surplus that equals or exceeds 50% of its outstanding capital stock. Business First Bank&#146;s unimpaired surplus may not be reduced below 50% as a result of the payment of any combination of cash or property dividends, or the purchase or redemption of any shares of its capital stock. In addition, Business First Bank must obtain the prior approval of the Louisiana Banking Commissioner to pay dividends to us if the total of all year-to-date cash or property dividends declared and paid by Business First Bank, when added to any amounts used by Business First Bank to redeem or purchase shares of its capital stock, would exceed the total of its year-to-date net income combined with its net income from the immediately preceding year, after deducting all of the following: (i) amounts paid or accrued for the payments of cash dividends, (ii) the value of all property paid in dividends, and (iii) amounts paid or accrued to redeem or purchase shares of Business First Bank&#146;s capital stock over the calculation period. 

In addition to Louisiana law restrictions on Business First Bank&#146;s ability to pay dividends, under FDICIA, Business First Bank may not pay any dividend if the payment of the dividend would cause Business First Bank to become undercapitalized or if Business First Bank is &#147;undercapitalized.&#148; The FDIC may further restrict the payment of dividends by requiring that Business First Bank maintain a higher level of capital than would otherwise be required to be &#147;adequately capitalized&#148; for regulatory purposes. Moreover, if, in the opinion of the FDIC, Business First Bank is engaged in an unsound practice (which could include the payment of dividends), the FDIC may require, generally after notice and hearing, that Business First Bank cease such practice. The FDIC has indicated that paying dividends that deplete a depository institution&#146;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe banking practice. Moreover, the FDIC has also issued policy statements providing that insured depository institutions generally should pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. Under regulatory capital guidelines, Business First Bank must maintain a Tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets ratio of at least 4.0%, a Tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets ratio of at least 6.0%, and a total risk based capital to risk weighted assets ratio of at least 8.0%. As of December 31, 2015, Business First Bank had a ratio of Tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets of 10.17%, a ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets of 11.41% and a ratio of total risk based capital to risk weighted assets of 12.17%. 

The Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III (described below) impose additional restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to pay dividends. 

&#160;

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

The Federal Reserve monitors our capital adequacy, on a consolidated basis, and the FDIC and the Louisiana OFI monitor the capital adequacy of Business First Bank. The bank regulators use a combination of risk-based guidelines and a leverage ratio to evaluate capital adequacy. The risk-based capital guidelines applicable to us and our bank are based on the Basel Committee&#146;s December 2010 final capital framework, known as Basel III, as implemented by the federal bank regulators. The risk-based guidelines are intended to make regulatory capital requirements sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance sheet items are assigned to weighted risk categories, and capital is classified in one of the following tiers depending on its characteristic: 

Common Equity Tier 1 (&#147;CET1&#148;) Capital . CET1 capital generally includes common equity, surplus and retained earnings less goodwill, most intangible assets and certain other assets. The capital rules require bank holding companies and banks to include Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (&#147;AOCI&#148;) into CET1 unless the bank and bank holding company use a one-time election to exclude AOCI from its regulatory capital metrics on January 1, 2015. We elected to exclude AOCI from CET1. 

Tier 1 (Core) Capital . Tier 1 capital generally includes CET1 and qualifying trust preferred securities at the holding company level, less goodwill, most intangible assets and certain other assets. 

Tier 2 (Supplementary) Capital . Tier 2 capital generally includes qualifying subordinated debt and a limited amount of allowances for loan and lease losses. 

Bank holding companies and banks are also currently required to comply with minimum leverage requirements, measured based on the ratio of a bank holding company&#146;s or a bank&#146;s, as applicable, Tier 1 capital to adjusted quarterly average total assets (as defined for regulatory purposes). These requirements generally necessitate a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all bank holding companies and banks. To be considered &#147;well capitalized&#148; under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, Business First Bank must maintain minimum Tier 1 leverage ratios of at least 5%. See &#147;&#151;Prompt Corrective Action Framework.&#148; 

Basel III and the Capital Rules . In July 2013, the federal bank regulators approved final rules, or the Capital Rules, implementing the Basel Committee&#146;s December 2010 final capital framework for strengthening international capital standards, known as Basel III, and various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and banks, including us and Business First Bank, compared to the previous risk-based capital rules. The Capital Rules revise the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in regulatory capital ratio calculations. The Capital Rules also address risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in regulatory capital ratio calculations, including by replacing the existing risk-weighting approach derived from Basel I with a more risk-sensitive approach based, in part, on the standardized approach adopted by the Basel Committee in its 2004 capital accords, known as Basel II. The Capital Rules also implement the requirements of Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act to remove references to credit ratings from the federal bank regulators&#146; rules. Subject to a phase-in period for various provisions, the Capital Rules became effective for us and for Business First Bank beginning on January 1, 2015. 

Under the Basel III Capital Rules, the minimum capital ratios are (i) 4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets, (ii) 6% Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets and (iii) 8% total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets. 

The current capital rules also include a capital conservation buffer designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. The capital conservation buffer is composed entirely of CET1, on top of these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. In addition, the Capital Rules provide for a countercyclical capital buffer applicable only to certain covered institutions. We do not expect the countercyclical capital buffer to be applicable to us or to Business First Bank. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

The implementation of the capital conservation buffer began on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and will be phased in over a three-year period (increasing by 0.625% on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019). When fully phased-in, the Capital Rules will require us, and Business First Bank, to maintain an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1, effectively resulting in minimum ratios of: (i) 7.0% CET1 to risk-weighted assets, (ii) 8.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, and (iii) 10.5% total capital to risk-weighted assets. 

&#160;

The Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 began on January 1, 2015, and will be phased in over a four-year period (beginning at 40% on January 1, 2015 and an additional 20% per year thereafter). The Capital Rules also generally preclude certain hybrid securities, such as trust preferred securities, from being counted as Tier 1 capital for most bank holding companies. However, bank holding companies such as us who had less than $15 billion in assets as of December 31, 2009 (and who continue to have less than $15 billion in assets) are permitted to include trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 as Additional Tier 1 capital under the Capital Rules. 

The Capital Rules also prescribed a new standardized approach for risk weightings that expanded the risk-weighting categories from the current four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0%, for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600%, for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories. 

With respect to Business First Bank, the Capital Rules also revised the prompt corrective action regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the FDI Act. See &#147;&#151;Prompt Corrective Action Framework.&#148; 

We believe that, as of December 31, 2015, we and Business First Bank would meet all capital adequacy requirements under the Capital Rules on a fully phased-in basis as if such requirements were then in effect. 

Liquidity Requirements 

Historically, the regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward would be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity&#146;s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other test, referred to as the net stable funding ratio, or NSFR, is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incentivize banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source. 

In September 2015, the federal bank regulators approved final rules implementing the LCR for advanced approaches banking organizations (i.e., banking organizations with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in total on-balance sheet foreign exposure) and a modified version of the LCR for bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets that are not advanced approach banking organizations, neither of which would apply to us or Business First Bank. The federal bank regulators have not yet proposed rules to implement the NSFR, but the Federal Reserve has stated its intent to adopt a version of this measure as well. 

Prompt Corrective Action Framework 

The FDI Act requires the federal bank regulators to take prompt corrective action in respect of depository institutions that fail to meet specified capital requirements. The FDI Act establishes five capital categories (&#147;well-capitalized,&#148; &#147;adequately capitalized,&#148; &#147;undercapitalized,&#148; &#147;significantly undercapitalized&#148; and &#147;critically undercapitalized&#148;), and the federal bank regulators are required to take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions that are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the FDI Act requires the regulator to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. 

An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. A bank&#146;s capital category is determined solely for the purpose of applying prompt corrective action regulations, and the capital category may not constitute an accurate representation of the bank&#146;s overall financial condition or prospects for other purposes. 

The Capital Rules revised the current prompt corrective action requirements effective January 1, 2015 by (i) introducing a CET1 ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required CET1 ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category (other than critically 

&#160;

undercapitalized), with the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status being 8% (as compared to the current 6%); and (iii) eliminating the provision that provided that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3% leverage ratio and still be adequately capitalized. The Capital Rules do not change the total risk-based capital requirement for any prompt corrective action category. 

As of December 31, 2015, we and Business First Bank were well capitalized with Tier 1 capital ratios of 11.30% and 11.41%, respectively, total capital ratios of 12.06% and 12.17%, respectively, Tier 1 leverage ratios of 10.08% and 10.17%, respectively, and a CET1 ratio of 11.30% and 11.41%, respectively, as calculated under Basel III which went into effect on January 1, 2015. For more information on these financial measures, including reconciliations to our and Business First Bank&#146;s Tier 1 capital ratio, see &#147;Item 7. Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.&#148; 

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal bank regulator. Under the FDI Act, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a bank holding company must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The bank holding company must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. The obligation of a controlling bank holding company under the FDI Act to fund a capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5.0% of an undercapitalized subsidiary&#146;s assets or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions and capital distributions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except in accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with the approval of the FDIC. Institutions that are undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized and either fail to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fail to implement an approved capital restoration plan may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions failing to submit or implement an acceptable capital restoration plan are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator. 

Reserve Requirements 

Pursuant to regulations of the Federal Reserve, all banks are required to maintain average daily reserves at mandated ratios against their transaction accounts. In addition, reserves must be maintained on certain nonpersonal time deposits. These reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash or in an account at a Federal Reserve Bank. 

Brokered Deposits 

The FDI Act restricts the use of brokered deposits by certain depository institutions. Under the applicable regulations, (i) a well capitalized insured depository institution may solicit and accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit without restriction, (ii) an adequately capitalized insured depository institution may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless it has applied for and been granted a waiver of this prohibition by the FDIC, and (iii) an undercapitalized insured depository institution may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit. The FDIC may, on a case-by-case basis and upon application by an adequately capitalized insured depository institution, waive the restriction on brokered deposits upon a finding that the acceptance of brokered deposits does not constitute an unsafe or unsound practice with respect to such institution. A depository institution that is adequately capitalized and accepts brokered deposits under a waiver from the FDIC may not pay an interest rate on any deposit in excess of 75 basis points over certain prevailing market rates. 

Concentrated Commercial Real Estate Lending Guidance 

The federal banking agencies, including the FDIC, have promulgated guidance governing financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance provides that a bank has a concentration in commercial real estate lending if (1) total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (2) total reported loans secured by multifamily and nonfarm nonresidential properties and loans for construction, land development and other land represent 300% or more of total capital and the bank&#146;s commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased 50% or more during the prior 36 months. Owner occupied commercial real estate loans are excluded from this second category. If a concentration is present, management must employ heightened risk management practices that address the following key elements: including board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of commercial real estate lending. 

&#160;

Examination and Examination Fees 

The FDIC periodically examines and evaluates state non-member banks. Based on such an evaluation, Business First Bank, among other things, may be required to revalue its assets and establish specific reserves to compensate for the difference between Business First Bank&#146;s assessment and that of the FDIC. The Louisiana OFI also conducts examinations of state banks but may accept the results of a federal examination in lieu of conducting an independent examination. In addition, the FDIC and Louisiana OFI may elect to conduct a joint examination. The Louisiana OFI charges fees to recover the costs of examining Louisiana chartered banks. The FDIC assesses fees in the form of deposit insurance premiums (discussed below). The Dodd-Frank Act provides various agencies with the authority to assess additional supervision fees. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

As an FDIC-insured bank, Business First Bank must pay deposit insurance assessments to the FDIC based on its average total assets minus its average tangible equity. As an institution with less than $10 billion in assets, Business First Bank&#146;s assessment rates are based on its risk classification ( i.e. , the level of risk it poses to the FDIC&#146;s deposit insurance fund). Institutions classified as higher risk pay assessments at higher rates than institutions that pose a lower risk. For institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, the FDIC uses a performance score and a loss-severity score that are used to calculate an initial assessment rate. In calculating these scores, the FDIC uses a bank&#146;s capital level and regulatory supervisory ratings and certain financial measures to assess an institution&#146;s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress. The FDIC also has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the calculations. In addition to ordinary assessments described above, the FDIC has the ability to impose special assessments in certain instances. 

The FDIC&#146;s deposit insurance fund is currently underfunded, and the FDIC has raised assessment rates and imposed special assessments on certain institutions during recent years to raise funds. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the minimum designated reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund is 1.35% of the estimated total amount of insured deposits. In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a restoration plan to ensure that the fund reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. At least semi-annually, the FDIC will update its loss and income projections for the fund and, if needed, will increase or decrease assessment rates, following notice-and-comment rulemaking if required. 

Under the FDI Act, the FDIC may terminate deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC.

Continued action by the FDIC to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund as well as changes contained in the Dodd-Frank Act may result in higher assessment rates. Business First Bank may be able to pass part or all of this cost on to its customers, including in the form of lower interest rates on deposits or fees to some depositors, depending on market conditions. 

Permitted Activities and Investments by Financial Holding Companies 

The BHC Act generally prohibits a financial holding company from engaging, directly or indirectly, in activities other than banking or managing or controlling banks, except for activities determined by the Federal Reserve to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. 

Activities that the Federal Reserve Board has found to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to the business of banking include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; factoring accounts receivable; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; making, acquiring, brokering or servicing loans and usual related activities; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; leasing personal or real property; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; operating a nonbank depository institution, such as a savings association; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; trust company functions; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; financial and investment advisory activities; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; conducting discount securities brokerage activities; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; underwriting and dealing in government obligations and money market instruments; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; providing specified management consulting and counseling activities; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performing selected data processing services and support services; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; acting as agent or broker in selling credit life insurance and other types of insurance in connection with credit transactions; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performing selected insurance underwriting activities. Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act expanded the permissible activities of a financial holding company that qualifies as and elects to become a financial holding company. Under the regulations implementing the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, a financial holding company may engage in additional activities that are &#147;financial in nature&#148; or incidental or complementary to financial activity. Among other things, to qualify as a financial holding company, all of the subsidiary banks controlled by the financial holding company must be and remain at all times &#147;well-capitalized&#148; and &#147;well-managed.&#148; We are not currently a financial holding company. 

Privacy and Security 

Federal law establishes a minimum federal standard of financial privacy by, among other provisions, requiring banks to adopt and disclose privacy policies with respect to consumer information and setting forth certain rules with respect to the disclosure to third parties of consumer information. Business First Bank has adopted and disseminated privacy policies pursuant to applicable law. Regulations adopted under federal law set standards for protecting the security, confidentiality and integrity of customer information, and require notice to regulators, and in some cases, to customers, in the event of security breaches. A number of states have also adopted statutes concerning financial privacy and requiring notification of security breaches. 

Anti-Money Laundering Requirements 

Under federal law, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the PATRIOT Act, certain types of financial institutions, including insured depository institutions, must maintain anti-money laundering programs that include established internal policies, procedures and controls, a designated compliance officer, an ongoing employee training program and testing of the program by an independent audit function. Among other things, these laws are intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. Financial institutions are prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence, customer identification and recordkeeping, including in their dealings with non-U.S. financial institutions and non-U.S. customers. Financial institutions must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious information maintained by financial institutions. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and they must consider an institution&#146;s anti-money laundering compliance when considering regulatory applications filed by the institution, including applications for banking mergers and acquisitions. The regulatory authorities have imposed &#147;cease and desist&#148; orders and civil money penalty sanctions against institutions found to be violating these obligations. 

Office of Foreign Asset Control (&#147;OFAC&#148;) is responsible for helping to insure that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with certain prohibited parties, as defined by various executive orders by the President of the United States and acts of Congress. OFAC publishes lists of persons, organizations and countries suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. If we or Business First Bank finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, we or Business First Bank must freeze or block such account or transaction, file a suspicious activity report and notify the appropriate authorities. 

Consumer Laws and Regulations 

Banks and other financial institutions are subject to numerous laws and regulations intended to protect consumers in their transactions with banks. These laws include, among others, laws regarding unfair and deceptive acts and practices and usury laws, as well as the federal consumer protection statutes set forth below. Many states and local jurisdictions have consumer protection laws analogous and in addition, to those listed below. These federal, state and local laws regulate the manner in which financial institutions deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans or conducting other types of transactions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could give rise to regulatory sanctions, customer rescission rights, action by state and local attorneys general and civil or criminal liability. 

&#160;

Federal Laws Applicable to Credit Transactions . The loan operations of Business First Bank are also subject to federal laws and regulations applicable to credit transactions, including, among others, the: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1978, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, requiring lenders to give borrowers certain disclosures with respect to the origination and servicing of one-to-four family mortgage loans; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Service Members Civil Relief Act, which amended the Soldiers&#146; and Sailors&#146; Civil Relief Act of 1940, governing the repayment terms of and property rights underlying, secured obligations of persons in military service; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing these federal laws and regulations, which continue to be extensively amended and revised. Federal Laws Applicable to Deposit Operations . Among other laws and regulations, the deposit operations of Business First Bank are subject to the following federal laws and their related regulations: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, which governs automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers&#146; rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Expedited Funds Availability Act, which standardizes hold periods for deposits and regulates financial institutions&#146; use of deposit holds; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Truth-in-Savings Act, which requires uniform disclosure of terms and conditions regarding interest and fees when giving out information on or opening a new savings account; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing these federal laws, which continue to be extensively amended and revised. The Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act, or the CRA, is intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their entire communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound operations. The regulators examine banks and assign each bank a public CRA rating. The CRA then requires bank regulators to take into account the bank&#146;s record in meeting the needs of its community when considering certain applications by a bank, including applications to establish a branch or to conduct certain mergers or acquisitions. The Federal Reserve is required to consider the CRA records of a bank holding company&#146;s controlled banks when considering an application by the bank holding company to acquire a bank or to merge with another bank holding company. 

When Business First applies for regulatory approval to make certain investments, the regulators will consider the CRA record of the target institution and Business First Bank. An unsatisfactory CRA record could substantially delay approval or result in denial of an application. The regulatory agency&#146;s assessment of the institution&#146;s record is made available to the public. The FDIC conducted its most recent CRA exam of Business First Bank in April 2014, and Business First Bank received an &#147;Outstanding&#148; rating. 

&#160;

In addition, federal law requires the disclosure of agreements reached with community groups that relate to the CRA, and contains various other provisions designed to improve the delivery of financial services to consumers while maintaining an appropriate level of safety in the financial services industry. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System 

Business First Bank is a member of the Dallas FHLB, which is one of the 12 regional FHLB&#146;s composing the FHLB system. Each FHLB provides a central credit facility primarily for its member institutions as well as other entities involved in home mortgage lending. Any advances from a FHLB must be secured by specified types of collateral. As a member of the FHLB of Dallas, Business First Bank is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB of Dallas. 

Changes in Laws, Regulations or Policies 

Congress and state legislatures may introduce from time to time measures or take actions that would modify the regulation of banks or bank holding companies. In addition, federal and state regulatory agencies also periodically propose and adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. Such changes could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks and other financial institutions, all of which could adversely affect our investment opportunities and our assessment of how attractive such opportunities may be. We cannot predict whether potential legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it or any implementing regulations would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Effect on Economic Environment 

The policies of regulatory authorities, including the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve, have a significant effect on the operating results of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. Among the means available to the Federal Reserve to affect the money supply are open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These means are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments and deposits, and their use may affect interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits. Federal Reserve monetary policies have materially affected the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. We cannot predict the nature of future monetary policies and the effect of such policies on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

&#160;

