 Item 1. Business 

The Company was incorporated in Delaware on September 24, 2013 as a special purpose acquisition company, or SPAC. On February 24, 2015 (the &#8220; Closing Date &#8221;), the Company consummated a business combination (the &#8220; Business Combination &#8221;), pursuant to which the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of School Bus Holdings Inc. (&#8220; School Bus Holdings &#8221; or &#8220; SBH &#8221;) from The Traxis Group, B.V. (the &#8220; Seller &#8221;), in accordance with the purchase agreement, dated as of September 21, 2014, by and among the Company, the Seller and, solely for purposes of Section 10.01(a) thereof, Hennessy Capital Partners I LLC (the &#8220; HCAC Sponsor &#8221;), as amended on February 10, 2015 and February 18, 2015 (as so amended, the &#8220; Purchase Agreement &#8221;). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the total purchase price was paid in a combination of cash in the amount of $100 million and 12,000,000 shares of the Company&#8217;s common stock, $0.0001 &#32;par value (the &#8220; Common Stock &#8221;), valued at $120 million. 

In connection with the closing of the Business Combination, the Company changed its name from Hennessy Capital Acquisition Corp. to Blue Bird Corporation. Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Report, Blue Bird Corporation shall be referred to as &#8220;Blue Bird&#8221; or the &#8220;Company,&#8221; and includes its consolidated subsidiaries. 

The following description of our business describes the business historically operated by School Bus Holdings and its subsidiaries under the &#8220;Blue Bird&#8221; name as an independent enterprise prior to the Business Combination and as subsidiaries of Blue Bird Corporation (formerly Hennessy Capital Acquisition Corp.) after the Business Combination. 

The periodic reports filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge at http://investors.blue-bird.com . This includes Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports. Section 16 filings made with the SEC by any of our executive officers or directors with respect to our Common Stock also are made available free of charge through our website. We post each of these documents on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after it is electronically filed with the SEC. Our reports filed with the SEC may also be found at the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . The Company&#8217;s Common Stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol &#8220;BLBD&#8221;. 

The corporate governance information on our website includes our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Conduct and Ethics and the Charters for each of the Committees of our Board of Directors. Any amendments to our Code of Ethics or waivers granted to our directors and executive officers will be posted on our corporate website. 

In addition to the information contained in this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2016 &#32;(&#8220; 2016 &#32;Form 10-K Report&#8221; or &#8220;Report&#8221;), information about our Company can be found at http://investors.blue-bird.com , &#32;including extensive information about our management team, our products and our corporate governance. 

The foregoing information regarding our website and its content is for convenience only and not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Report nor filed with the SEC. 

Overview 

We are the leading independent designer and manufacturer of school buses, with more than 550,000 buses sold since our formation in 1927 and approximately 180,000 buses in operation today. 

We review and present our business in two reportable segments (&#8220;segments&#8221;) - buses and aftermarket parts. Financial information is reported on the basis that it is used internally by the chief operating decision maker in evaluating segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources to segments. Our President and Chief Executive Officer has been identified as the chief operating decision maker. Our management evaluates the segments based primarily upon revenues and gross profit. See Note 12 , Segment Information , to the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements for additional financial information regarding our reportable segments including primary geographic areas in which we earn revenues. 

Our performance in recent years has been driven by the implementation of repeatable processes focused on product initiatives, continuous improvement of competitiveness and manufacturing flexibility, and new market initiatives, as described below: 

&#8226; 

Product initiatives included the introduction, in fiscal 2016, of the fourth generation propane-powered powertrain, and the introduction of the gasoline-powered bus; both of these initiatives were developed through our exclusive relationships with Ford Motor Company and Roush CleanTech. In addition, we are first to market with the new Cummins V8 ISV diesel engine in a school bus application, as well as the dual-clutch seven-speed Eaton transmission. Additionally, in fiscal 2016, we introduced new derivatives of our Type C and Type D buses that are suitable for commercial applications. 

&#8226; 

Increased cost competitiveness has been driven by the consolidation of assembly operations from two plants into one, increasing production at the Fort Valley assembly plant, increasing overall capacity by establishing a second shift, the reduction of the number of bus architectures and the implementation of long-term supply contracts (addressing both component price and supply) covering a substantial portion of the value of Blue Bird&#8217;s purchases from suppliers, including long-term agreements with its major single-source suppliers. 

&#8226; 

Sales and marketing initiatives included an account planning process to identify potential annual sales targets with our dealers down to the district level and a data driven market plan for the replacement of under-performing dealers. We added resources to support the launch of commercial bus sales and the expansion of export markets. In our Parts business, we have introduced a comprehensive electronic parts catalog across a broad number of service points, established a new process to support direct fleet customers and launched a detailed study of competitiveness. 

School buses are typically powered by diesel engines. However, in 2007, Blue Bird introduced the first OEM-installed, propane-powered Type C school bus. Propane is currently the fastest growing powertrain offering in the school bus market. Blue Bird was, until recently, the only manufacturer of propane-powered Type C buses for school districts. Our management believes that the growth of the propane share of total school bus sales will accelerate further with the entrance of our two principal competitors (Thomas Built Bus and IC Bus) into this market. Although propane-powered school buses require some dedicated infrastructure and are somewhat more expensive on a per unit basis than diesel, they are significantly less expensive to operate. Over the lifetime of a school bus, the fuel and maintenance cost savings from the use of propane-powered engines can be substantial. In addition, propane-powered buses are aligned with the increased national focus on green technologies and improving the environment as they generate significantly less emissions than diesel buses. Further, domestically sourced propane gas reduces dependence on foreign sources of oil. Blue Bird is also a leading manufacturer of school buses fueled by CNG. In the school bus industry, CNG is a niche product that is attractive to customers in certain markets that contain an existing refueling infrastructure. CNG requires significantly higher upfront refueling infrastructure investment and higher acquisition cost compared with propane. CNG-powered buses are typically only sold in states that offer significant grants for clean fuel solutions, such as California. To help reduce the upfront investment, we introduced a CNG solution in our Type C bus. This will provide a lower acquisition price for customers who have access to CNG fueling stations. 

As a result of the concentration of Blue Bird&#8217;s sales in the school bus industry in the United States and Canada, our operations are affected by national, state and local economic and political factors that impact spending for public and, to a lesser extent, private education. However, unlike the discretionary portion of school budgets, the offering of school bus services is typically viewed as a mandatory part of the public infrastructure across the United States and Canada, ensuring that funding for new school buses receives some level of priority in all economic climates. All 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the 13 Canadian Provinces have fleets of school buses in operation, ranging from about 800 buses in Hawaii to more than 45,000 buses in Texas. 

Bus Segment 

Our buses are sold through an extensive network of 50 &#32;United States and Canadian dealers that, in their territories, are exclusive to our Company on Type C and D school buses. We also sell directly to major fleet operators, the United States Government, state governments and authorized dealers in a number of foreign countries. 

In fiscal 2016 , we sold 10,616 &#32;buses throughout the world. See &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; for discussion of our unit volumes. 

Approximately 91% &#32;of our buses sold in fiscal 2016 &#32;were sold through distributors and dealers (&#8220;dealerships&#8221;). The Company holds no equity or control position in any dealerships or distributors. 

We design, engineer, manufacture and sell three types of school buses (Type C, Type D and specialty buses), as well as aftermarket parts. Each of our Type C and Type D buses is manufactured and assembled on its own dedicated purpose-built chassis in Fort Valley, Georgia. Regardless of specifications, all school bus bodies that we manufacture include our signature 14-gauge one piece steel bows roof system, complemented by a rugged and sturdy floor structure. 

&#160; 

Specialty buses include school buses that are converted to suit applications required by the United States Government, state and local governments and various customers for commercial and export markets. We also sell a &#8220;Sigma&#8221; bus that is developed for public transportation using our school bus chassis and a purpose-built body supplied by Autopartes Y Components, S.A. (&#8220;AYCO&#8221;) in Mexico. The &#8220;Sigma&#8221; bus is sold primarily to customers in Central and South America. 

The Blue Bird Micro Bird by Girardin Type A bus is produced through Micro Bird Holdings, Inc., an unconsolidated Canadian joint venture with Groupe Autobus Girardin LTEE (&#8220; Micro Bird &#8221;), and is sold through our dealer network. This is a smaller bus than the Type C or Type D bus and is produced on a chassis provided by either Ford or GM. 

Aftermarket Parts Segment 

&#160; 

Aftermarket parts are key for routine maintenance, replacement of parts that are damaged in service and replacement of parts that suffer from wear and tear through the useful life of the vehicle. 

In fiscal 2016 , aftermarket parts sales represented 6.0% &#32;of Company net sales. 

We maintain a parts distribution center in Delaware, Ohio that fills demand for our Company specific and all-makes parts. Additional demand for aftermarket parts is fulfilled by drop ship and direct sales. To fulfill demand for parts that are not maintained at the distribution center, we are linked to approximately 35 &#32;suppliers that ship directly to dealers and independent service centers. 

Our 50 &#32;dealers have approximately 250 &#32;aftermarket parts and service locations across the United States and Canada, the majority of which are owned by independent operators, to complement their primary locations. Field service engineers provide technical support to our dealer network. As of the end of fiscal 2016 , service engineers had an average of 25 years of experience with our Company and are strategically placed throughout the United States and Canada to serve both dealers and end-customers better. The network leverages our parts inventory, technical training and online warranty network to address customer service needs. 

Our Industry 

The school bus serves a critical role in the United States and Canadian education systems. According to School Transportation News, nearly 50 percent of the U.S. student population rides a school bus. The United States and Canadian fleet of approximately 550,000 Type C/D school buses transports approximately 26 million children daily. School buses are distinguished from other types of buses by design characteristics associated with increased safety as mandated by federal, state and municipal regulations. 

The United States and Canadian school bus industry for Type C and D buses has averaged approximately 30,600 &#32;unit sales annually between 1985 and 2016 . Unit sales for fiscal year 2016 &#32;are projected to be about 32,700 , an increase of 9.4% versus fiscal 2015 . 

&#160; 

Source: Historical registration data are based on R.L. Polk vehicle registration data. 

The low point in the industry occurred in 2011, at approximately 23,800 units, and was the result of the decline in the United States economy and, in particular, the collapse of the housing market in 2008 and 2009. Property tax receipts were impacted in the 2010-2011 period as a result of the substantial dislocation in the United States economy in general, and housing market in particular, preceding and during that period. 

The school bus industry is currently in recovery, supported by positive demographic trends. Our management believes, based on our industry forecast model developed using R.L. Polk school bus registration data and considering population changes of school age children, that Type C and Type D school bus registrations are expected to grow by 2% to 3% annually between fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2020. Our management believes that there will be a continued recovery for the school bus industry. We believe that (i) the industry has been operating below its historical long-term average of approximately 30,600 unit sales per year since the recession - fiscal 2016 is the first year since the recession in which unit sales exceeded this historical average, signaling the ability of the industry to now address the pent-up demand accumulated from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2015, during which the industry made below-average annual purchases, (ii) there are approximately 150,000 buses in the United States and Canadian fleets that have been in service for 15 or more years, and (iii) the population of school age children is growing. 

Local property and municipal tax receipts are key drivers of school district transportation budgets. Budgets for school bus purchases are directly related to property tax receipts, which are projected to continue a recovery that began in 2012. According to one organization - CoreLogic, Haver Analytics and Macroeconomic Advisers - United States housing prices have increased 6.4% annually since 2011 and are projected to continue to rise through 2025. The forecasted continued appreciation in housing prices is expected to have a positive effect on property tax receipts going forward and school transportation budgets are expected to directly benefit from increasing municipal spending budgets. We believe that incremental demand may be achieved as a result of (i) the average age of a school bus in service (approximately 12 years), and (ii) an increased student population during the period from 2013 to 2018 (based on information from the National Center of Education Studies, we expect total student enrollment in the United States to increase by over 2 million students from 2016 to 2023). 

Our management has developed a forecasting model using R.L. Polk vehicle registration data, population of school age children forecasts from the National Center for Education Statistics and bus ridership data collected and published by School Transportation News. Our management utilizes this internally developed model to assess historical experience and to predict demand for school buses in future periods. This model is also the source for all forward-looking market information provided with respect to the United States and Canadian school bus industry in this Report. The ability to purchase new buses to fulfill predicted demand, however, is based on the assumption that funds will be available through property taxes and other state sources. Should there be a significant downturn in property tax collections or in the availability of funds from other state sources, growth in the school bus industry could flatten or decline. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe that our competitive strengths are derived from the following factors: 

Reputation for safety, product quality/reliability/durability, and drivability . Our longevity and reputation in the school bus industry have made us an iconic American brand. We are the only principal manufacturer with chassis and body production specifically designed for school bus applications and the only school bus company to offer compliance with industry recognized safety tests-Altoona Testing, Colorado Rack Test and the Kentucky Pole Test-as a standard specification across our entire product line. 

Alternative fuel leadership . We are the market leader in propane and CNG fuel powered-buses, having sold approximately nine times more alternative fuel school buses than all of our competitors combined over the period from fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2016. In fiscal 2016 we sold 2,241 propane powered buses, an increase of 33% versus the prior year. We also introduced the gasoline powered-bus late in fiscal 2016 and sold 406 units. 

Innovative product leadership . We have consistently led the school bus industry with innovative product leadership through several industry firsts, including the first Type D CNG school bus, the first unique school bus chassis and the first OEM-manufactured propane bus. During fiscal 2016, we launched the industry's only gasoline powered Type C bus (utilizing an exclusive Ford and Roush Cleantech powertrain) and we were first-to-market with Electronic Stability Control, the new Cummins V8 ISV Diesel engine and Eaton transmissions as available options. We introduced a Type C CNG powered bus in fiscal 2016 based on the exclusive Ford and Roush CleanTech powertrain. Research and development costs were $5.4 million &#32;and $5.2 million &#32;for the fiscal years ended 2016 &#32;and 2015 , respectively. 

Strong distribution model . We have built an extensive, experienced network of 50 &#32;dealers to distribute our buses across the United States and Canada, and during recent years have significantly enhanced our relationships with large fleet operators. Our dealers have an average tenure of more than 25 years with us and do not sell competing Type C or D school bus products in the areas assigned to them by us. 

Highly-skilled and committed workforce . We benefit from a highly-skilled, committed hourly workforce of approximately 1,842 people (full-time and part-time hourly employees) that support our customized assembly operations at our 900,000 square foot integrated chassis manufacturing and body assembly facility and 340,000 square foot component fabrication facility. Our employees are trained to maximize production efficiency by following customized processes developed by us. 

Strong management team . We are led by a highly experienced and committed management team with an established track record in the United States and Canadian school bus industry. 

Sales Volume 

In fiscal 2016 , we sold 10,616 &#32;Type C/D buses, including 10,106 school buses, 163 commercial buses, 71 export buses and 276 GSA (Government Services Administration) buses. Our Type C school bus accounted for 77% of unit sales and our Type D school bus accounted for 18% of unit sales. Commercial, GSA and export buses, which can be ordered with either the Type C or Type D chassis, accounted for the remaining 5% of unit sales. 

Our Dealer Network 

During fiscal 2016 , we sold approximately 91% &#32;of our vehicles through our United States and Canadian dealer network, currently consisting of 50 &#32;dealers that, in their territories, are exclusive to us with Type C and D school buses. All of the school buses sold in the United States and Canada through our dealer network are purchased by school districts and private schools, as well as small and medium size contractors that provide services to school districts on a fee basis. Bus purchases and contractor fees are funded through local school district budgets. Purchases of school buses are typically made through a bid process at the district or state level, with dealers coordinating this process. Dealers develop collaborative relationships with school districts, district transportation directors and key officials in their states. 

Our dealers have access to financing through Blue Bird Capital Services (&#8220; BBCS &#8221;), a private-label financing product maintained by an independent third party, De Lage Landen, a member of the Rabobank Group. We do not assume any balance sheet risk with respect to this type of financing and do not receive any direct economic benefit from BBCS. 

Other Distribution Channels 

Fleet Operators . We also sell school buses directly to large national fleets that span multiple states and such sales are managed internally by our Executive Director of Sales, National Accounts. 

Export Dealers . We regularly monitor opportunities to sell our Type C and Type D buses in either school bus or other configurations in international markets and typically sell these products through dealers assigned to those territories. Additionally, the Blue Bird Sigma Forward Engine chassis is specifically designed for foreign transit applications and has been sold successfully in Bogota, Colombia. 

U.S. Government; Other Specialty Sales . We also sell buses through our United States General Services Administration (&#8220; GSA &#8221;) contract, an expedited procurement procedure designed to meet the bus needs of customers authorized to purchase through the GSA contracting offices, including the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Army, Homeland Security and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. This full line of bus models is configured for adult or school bus use. In addition to the base GSA specifications, we offer several additional configurations to provide a wide range of passenger capacities and optional features. We also offer a full line of activity bus and Multi-Function School Activity Bus (&#8220; MFSAB &#8221;) products. With varying vehicle sizes, capacities, fuel choices, and engine types, our bus options enable our customers to tailor their transportation solutions to their specific needs, be it transporting a church congregation or shuttling workers to job sites. 

Government Contracts 

As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to specific regulations and requirements as mandated by our contracts. These regulations include Federal Acquisition Regulations, Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations and the Code of Federal Regulations. We are also subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. government agencies such as the Defense Contract Management Agency and Defense Contract Audit Agency. These agencies review and assess compliance with contractual requirements, cost structure, cost accounting, and applicable laws, regulations, and standards. 

A portion of our existing U.S. government contracts extend over multiple years and are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. In addition, our U.S. government contracts generally permit the contracting government agency to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, either for the convenience of the government or for default based on our failure to perform under the contract. 

Suppliers 

We purchase our engine and transmission components on a single-source basis from major OEM manufacturers with sophisticated engineering, production and logistics capabilities, as reflected in the table below: 

Component 

&#160; 

OEM Supplier 

Diesel engines 

&#160; 

Cummins Inc. 

Diesel emissions kits 

&#160; 

Cummins Inc. 

Propane and gasoline engines and transmissions 

&#160; 

Ford Motor Company 

Diesel transmissions 

&#160; 

Allison Transmission 

Propane fueling kits 

&#160; 

Roush CleanTech 

Our purchasing department continually works to improve our purchasing processes by rationalizing the supplier base (reducing the supplier base by approximately one-third in the last five years) and by implementing improved control processes. We regularly perform supplier audits and, when necessary, will meet with under performing suppliers in order to enhance performance. As of October 1, 2016, we had in place long-term supply contracts (addressing both component price and supply) covering over 85% of the value of our purchases from suppliers, including long-term agreements with our major single-source suppliers. 

Based on our experience to date and our relationships with our suppliers, we do not expect to be subject to sustained shortages on any material components, whether or not single-sourced. 

Competition 

The school bus industry is highly competitive. Our two principal competitors are Thomas Built Bus and IC Bus. Thomas Built Bus is a subsidiary of Daimler Trucks North America and IC Bus is a subsidiary of Navistar International. 

We compete primarily on the basis of price, product diversification, school bus innovation, safety, quality, durability and drivability of our products, and the scope and strength of our dealer network. As our principal competitors are parts of larger corporations, our competitors may have greater access to financial capital, human resources and business opportunities. Such access, in turn, may be used by such companies to compete with us and others in the industry. 

Facilities 

We operate a fabrication plant and an integrated chassis manufacturing and body assembly plant in Fort Valley, Georgia, where we manufacture components and assemble Type C, Type D and specialty buses. We also operate a parts distribution center located in Delaware, Ohio. We own our facilities in Fort Valley, Georgia (approximately 1.2 million square feet) and lease our facility in Delaware, Ohio (approximately 0.2 million square feet). Our Micro Bird joint venture leases its facility (0.1 million square feet) in Drummondville, Quebec. 

Intellectual Property and Technology 

We seek trademark protection in the United States and outside of the United States where available and when appropriate. Among other trademarks, we have registered trademark rights in the principal names and designs used by us and Micro Bird in the United States, Canada and elsewhere. We use these registered marks in connection with all aspects of our branding. However, we also rely on a number of significant unregistered trademarks and other unregistered intellectual property in the day-to-day operation of our business. Without the protections afforded by registration, our ability to protect and use our trademarks and other unregistered intellectual property may be limited and could negatively affect our business. 

In addition to trademarks, we rely heavily on trade secrets and know-how to develop and maintain our competitive position. For example, significant aspects of our product designs, manufacturing processes and cost containment steps are based on unpatented trade secrets and know-how. Trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, suppliers and other commercial partners. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data, designs and trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems. While we have confidence in these individuals, organizations and systems, agreements or security measures may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our suppliers or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how. 

Government Regulation 

Our products must satisfy various legal, environmental, health and safety requirements at federal, state and municipal levels. Compliance with such requirements adds to the costs that must be incurred in order to manufacture a school bus. Failure to comply with such requirements could lead to substantial additional regulatory costs. 

At the federal level, &#8220;FMVSS,&#8221; or Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, govern the safety of all motor vehicles sold for use in the United States. More than half of the FMVSS regulations apply to school buses. For example, federal regulations require school buses to be painted &#8220;school bus yellow&#8221; and to be equipped with specific warning and safety devices. School buses are also built with the body on top of chassis frame rails. This so-called &#8220;high floor&#8221; construction moves the passenger compartment above the typical automotive &#8220;crash zone&#8221; and therefore provides an added measure of safety should a collision occur. Steel rollover cages and heavy duty bumpers are designed to provide incremental protection, in contrast with standard transit buses with &#8220;low floor&#8221; construction that offer lower curb height access with limited or no steel reinforcement. 

After a school bus is sold, regulation of the operation of the school bus becomes the responsibility of the state in which it operates. Today, each state has its own rules and regulations pertaining to the manufacture, design, operation and safety of the school buses operated in their jurisdictions. As a result, we cannot manufacture to a single set of specifications, but rather must assure that each bus that is manufactured conforms to the specifications of the particular jurisdiction in which it will be operated. 

We must also consider the rules and regulations of foreign jurisdictions. In Canada, where our Micro Bird joint venture operates, school buses are governed by the Canadian Motor Vehicle Safety Regulations. These regulations are patterned after the FMVSS regulations, although differences do exist between the two regulatory systems. 

Seasonality 

Our business is highly seasonal. Most school districts seek to buy their new school buses so that they will be available for use on the first day of the school year, typically in mid-August to early September. As a result, our two busiest quarters are our third and fourth fiscal quarters, the latter ending on the Saturday closest to September 30. Our quarterly results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity are likely to be impacted by these seasonal practices. For example, our revenues are typically highest in our third and fourth fiscal quarters. Working capital, on the other hand, is typically a significant use of cash during the first fiscal quarter and a significant source of cash generation in the fourth fiscal quarter. We typically conduct planned shutdowns during our first fiscal quarter. 

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and health and safety, including those regulating the following: soil, surface water and groundwater contamination; the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of materials, including greenhouse gases (&#8220; GHGs &#8221;) into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. We have taken various steps to comply with these numerous and sometimes complex laws, regulations and permits. Compliance with environmental requirements historically has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures pursuant to such requirements. If we violate or fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to fines, penalties, enforcement actions or lawsuits. 

For additional information regarding potential remediation at Blue Bird&#8217;s Fort Valley, Georgia facility, see Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors-Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Industry-Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability." 

Environmental laws, regulations, and permits and the enforcement thereof, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. Among other things, more rigorous GHG emission requirements are in various stages of development. For example, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (&#8220; U.S. EPA &#8221;) has promulgated the GHG Reporting Rule, which requires reporting of GHG data and other relevant information from large sources and suppliers in the United States, and the GHG Tailoring Rule, which requires certain facilities with significant GHG emissions to obtain emissions permits under the authority of the Clean Air Act (typically limited to only the largest stationary sources of GHGs). The United States Congress has also considered imposing additional restrictions on GHG emissions. Any additional regulation of GHG emissions by either the United States Congress and/or the U.S. EPA could include a cap-and-trade system, technology mandate, emissions tax, reporting requirement, or other program and could subject us to significant costs, including those relating to emission credits, pollution control equipment, monitoring, and reporting, as well as increased energy and raw material prices. 

Our facilities and operations could in the future be subject to regulation related to climate change and climate change itself may also have some impact on the Company&#8217;s operations. However, these impacts are currently uncertain and the Company cannot predict the nature and scope of those impacts. 

Research and Development 

Research and development costs were $5.4 million &#32;and $5.2 million &#32;for the fiscal years ended 2016 &#32;and 2015 , respectively. Refer to Note 2 , Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards , to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information on research and development. 

Warranty &#32; 

We provide warranties on all of the buses and parts we sell. Warranties are offered for specific periods of time and mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale. Pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a bus that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period. In addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of field service actions (i.e., safety recalls and service bulletins), and customer satisfaction actions . 

Legal Proceedings 

We are engaged in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. Although no assurances can be given about the final outcome of pending legal proceedings, at the present time our management does not believe that the resolution or outcome of any of our pending legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. 

Backlog 

We define order backlog ("backlog") as orders received but yet to be built and sold as of the end of the fiscal period. The backlog may be cancellable within a certain period and may not represent guarantees of purchases by customers or dealers. 

The following table provides our worldwide backlog: 

(dollars in millions) 

Units 

&#160; 

Value 

1,193 

&#160; 

$ 

102.9 

1,069 

&#160; 

$ 

90.1 

Employees 

At October 1, 2016 , we employed 2,160 &#32;employees, consisting of 1,863 &#32;full-time and part-time hourly and 297 &#32;salaried employees. Our workforce is non-union. 

