 Item 1. Business 

&#160; 

General 

&#160; 

Bank of Hawaii Corporation (the "Parent") is a Delaware corporation and a bank holding company ("BHC") headquartered in Honolulu, Hawaii. The Parent's principal operating subsidiary, Bank of Hawaii (the "Bank"), was organized on December 17, 1897 and is chartered by the State of Hawaii. The Bank's deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") and the Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System. 

The Bank, directly and through its subsidiaries, provides a broad range of financial products and services primarily to customers in Hawaii, Guam, and other Pacific Islands. References to "we," "our," "us," or "the Company" refer to the Parent and its subsidiaries and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. The Bank's subsidiaries include Bank of Hawaii Leasing, Inc., Bankoh Investment Services, Inc., and Pacific Century Life Insurance Corporation. The Bank's subsidiaries are engaged in equipment leasing, securities brokerage, investment advisory services, and providing credit insurance. 

We are organized into four business segments for management reporting purposes: Retail Banking, Commercial Banking, Investment Services, and Treasury and Other. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&#38;A") and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports can be found free of charge on our website at www.boh.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines; charters of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee; and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on our website at www.boh.com. Printed copies of this information may be obtained, without charge, by written request to the Corporate Secretary at 130 Merchant Street, Honolulu, Hawaii, 96813. 

Competition 

The Company operates in a highly competitive environment subject to intense competition from traditional financial service providers including banks, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, finance companies, mutual funds, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other non-traditional providers of financial services including financial service subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Some of our competitors are not subject to the same level of regulation and oversight that is required of banks and BHCs. As a result, some of our competitors may have lower cost structures. Also, some of our competitors, through alternative delivery channels such as the Internet, may be based outside of the markets that we serve. By emphasizing our extensive branch network, exceptional service levels, and knowledge of local trends and conditions, we believe the Company has developed an effective competitive advantage in its market. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental authorities. The regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, customers, and the integrity of the U.S. banking system and capital markets. The following information describes some of the more significant laws and regulations applicable to us. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the applicable laws and regulations. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the banking industry are frequently raised in Congress, in state legislatures, and with the various bank regulatory agencies. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, or a change in the way such laws or regulations are interpreted by regulatory agencies or courts, may have a material impact on our business, operations, and earnings. 

The Parent 

The Parent is registered as a BHC under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHC Act"), and is subject to the supervision of and to examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Bank (the "FRB"). The Parent is also registered as a financial institution holding company under the Hawaii Code of Financial Institutions (the "Code") and is subject to the registration, reporting, and examination requirements of the Code. 

The BHC Act prohibits, with certain exceptions, a BHC from acquiring beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company, including a bank, without the FRB's prior approval. The Act also prohibits a BHC from engaging in any activity other than banking, managing or controlling banks or other subsidiaries authorized under the BHC Act, or furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries. 

Under FRB policy, a BHC is expected to serve as a source of financial and management strength to its subsidiary bank. A BHC is also expected to commit resources to support its subsidiary bank in circumstances where it might not do so absent such a policy. Under this policy, a BHC is expected to stand ready to provide adequate capital funds to its subsidiary bank during periods of financial adversity and to maintain the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary bank. 

Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act, banks and bank holding companies from any state are permitted to acquire banks located in any other state, subject to certain conditions, including certain nationwide and state-imposed deposit concentration limits. The Bank also has the ability, subject to certain restrictions, to acquire branches outside its home state by acquisition or merger. The establishment of new interstate branches is also possible in those states with laws that expressly permit de novo branching. Because the Code permits de novo branching by out-of-state banks, those banks may establish new branches in Hawaii. Interstate branches are subject to certain laws of the states in which they are located. 

Bank of Hawaii 

The Bank is subject to supervision and examination by the FRB of San Francisco and the State of Hawaii Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs' ("DCCA") Division of Financial Institutions. The Bank is subject to extensive federal and state regulations that significantly affect its business and activities. These regulatory bodies have broad authority to implement standards and to initiate proceedings designed to prohibit depository institutions from engaging in activities that may represent unsafe or unsound banking practices or constitute violations of applicable laws, rules, regulations, administrative orders, or written agreements with regulators. The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure, capital, and executive compensation. These regulatory bodies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards, including the assessment of civil monetary penalties, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, and other actions. 

Bankoh Investment Services, Inc., the broker-dealer and investment advisor subsidiary of the Bank, is incorporated in Hawaii and is regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, and the DCCA's Business Registration Division. Pacific Century Life Insurance Corporation is incorporated in Arizona and is regulated by the State of Arizona Department of Insurance. 

The Dodd Frank Act 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act") has broadly affected the financial services industry and significantly restructured the financial regulatory regime since its passage in July 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act and its regulations have implemented sweeping changes to the financial regulatory landscape aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector by requiring ongoing stress testing of banks' capital, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, establishing new standards for mortgage lenders, increasing regulation of executive and incentive-based compensation and numerous other provisions. Additional provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act also limit or place significant burdens and costs on activities traditionally conducted by banking organizations, such as arranging and participating in swap and derivative transactions, proprietary trading and investing in private equity and other funds. All of these new rules and regulations are expected to result in increased compliance and other costs, increased legal risk and decreased product offerings. 

As is discussed throughout the following sections, many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rulemaking which will take effect over several years. These new rules and regulations will continue to significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions, including the Company and the Bank. Although we have already experienced some decrease in revenue as a result of the rules implemented under the Dodd-Frank Act, it remains difficult to anticipate or predict the overall financial impact the Dodd-Frank Act will continue to have on the Company, our customers, our financial condition and results of operations, or the financial industry in general. 

Capital Requirements 

In December 2010, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision finalized a set of international guidelines for determining regulatory capital known as &#8220;Basel III,&#8221; which includes reforms regarding capital, leverage, and liquidity. In July 2013, the FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC") and the FDIC finalized rules to implement the Basel III capital rules in the United States. These comprehensive rules are designed to help ensure that banks maintain strong capital positions by increasing both the quantity and quality of capital held by U.S. banking organizations. The final rules became effective for the Company on January 1, 2015. The final rules also include a new capital conservation buffer, which will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016 and will increase annually until fully phased-in by January 1, 2019. See the &#8220;Regulatory Initiatives Affecting the Banking Industry&#8221; section in MD&#38;A for more information on Basel III. 

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA"), the federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take prompt corrective action to resolve problems of insured depository institutions. FDICIA identifies five capital categories for insured depository institutions: "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized," and "critically undercapitalized." Under regulations established by the federal banking agencies, upon implementing the Basel III capital guidelines, a "well capitalized" institution must have a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio of at least 6.5%, a Tier 1 Capital Ratio of at least 8%, a Total Capital Ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 Leverage Ratio of at least 5%, and not be subject to a capital directive order. As of December 31, 2015, the Bank was classified as "well capitalized." The classification of a depository institution under FDICIA is primarily for the purpose of applying the federal banking agencies' prompt corrective action provisions, and is not intended to be, nor should it be interpreted as, a representation of the overall financial condition or the prospects of that financial institution. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

As part of implementing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, in October 2012, the FRB published final rules requiring banks with total consolidated assets of more than $10.0 billion to conduct and publish annual stress tests. In March 2014, the FRB, OCC, and FDIC issued final supervisory guidance for these stress tests. Compliance with these requirements began in October 2013. See the &#8220;Regulatory Initiatives Affecting the Banking Industry&#8221; section in MD&#38;A for more information on stress testing. 

&#160; 

Dividend Restrictions 

The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. The Parent's principal source of funds to pay dividends on its common stock and to service its debt is dividends from the Bank. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Bank may pay to the Parent without regulatory approval. The FRB is authorized to determine the circumstances when the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit such payments. The right of the Parent, its shareholders, and creditors, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its subsidiaries is also subject to the prior claims of creditors of those subsidiaries. For information regarding the limitations on the Bank's ability to pay dividends to the Parent, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders 

Under federal law, the Bank is subject to restrictions that limit the transfer of funds or other items of value to the Parent, and any other non-bank affiliates in so-called "covered transactions." In general, covered transactions include loans, leases, other extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, as well as other transactions involving the transfer of value from the Bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. The Dodd-Frank Act broadened the definition of affiliate, and the definition of covered transaction to include securities borrowing/lending, repurchase/reverse repurchase agreements, and derivative transactions that the Bank may have with an affiliate. The Dodd-Frank Act also strengthened the collateral requirements and limited FRB exemptive authority. 

Unless an exemption applies, covered transactions by the Bank with a single affiliate are limited to 10% of the Bank's capital and surplus, and with respect to all covered transactions with affiliates in the aggregate, they are limited to 20% of the Bank's capital and surplus. 

The Federal Reserve Act also requires that certain transactions between the Bank and its affiliates be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the Bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with or involving other non-affiliated persons. The FRB has issued Regulation W which codifies the above restrictions on transactions with affiliates. 

The restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers, principal shareholders and their related interests (collectively referred to as "insiders") contained in the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O apply to all insured institutions and their subsidiaries and holding companies. These restrictions include limits on loans to one borrower and conditions that must be met before such loans can be made. There is also an aggregate limitation on all loans to insiders and their related interests. These loans cannot exceed the institution's total unimpaired capital and surplus. The definition of "extension of credit" for transactions with executive officers, directors, and principal shareholders was also expanded under the Dodd-Frank Act to include credit exposure arising from derivative transactions, repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements, and securities lending or borrowing transactions. 

Volcker Rule 

On December 10, 2013, the final &#8220;Volcker Rule&#8221; under the Dodd-Frank Act was approved by the FRB, the OCC, the FDIC, the SEC, and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission. The Volcker Rule prohibits U.S. banks from engaging in proprietary trading and restricts those banking entities from sponsoring, investing in, or having certain relationships with hedge funds and private equity funds. The final rule may limit or restrict the Company&#8217;s activities related to proprietary trading and private equity investing. In connection with the issuance of the regulations, the FRB exercised its authority to extend the conformance period for compliance with the Volcker Rule by one year from July 21, 2014 to July 21, 2015. During the remaining conformance period, each banking entity is expected to engage in good faith efforts that will result in conformance of all its activities and investments with the requirements of the Volcker Rule by July 21, 2015. On December 18, 2014, the FRB issued an order extending, for an additional year to July 21, 2016, the Volcker Rule conformance period for banking entities to conform their investments in and relationships with covered funds subject to the Volcker Rule that were in place prior to December 31, 2013. No extension was granted for the conformance period for proprietary trading which expired on July 21, 2015. The Company does not anticipate that the Volcker Rule will have a material impact on the Company&#8217;s Consolidated Financial Statements, but continues to evaluate its application to our current and future operations. 

FDIC Insurance 

The FDIC provides insurance coverage for certain deposits through the Deposit Insurance Fund (the "DIF"), which the FDIC maintains by assessing depository institutions an insurance premium. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the amount of deposit insurance coverage for deposits increased permanently from $100,000 to $250,000, per depositor, for each account ownership category. The Company pays deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC based on an assessment rate established by the FDIC. 

Our FDIC insurance assessment was $8.7 million &#32;in 2015 , $7.9 million &#32;in 2014 , and $7.8 million &#32;in 2013 . 

Effective January 1, 2015, the FDIC modified certain elements of its deposit insurance assessment system for insured depository institutions. The FDIC revised its methodology for determining insurance assessment rates, and the ratios and ratio thresholds for &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; and &#8220;undercapitalized" evaluation categories used in its risk-based deposit insurance assessment system to conform to the prompt corrective action capital ratio thresholds adopted as part of the U.S, Basel III capital rules. 

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations 

As required by FDICIA, the federal banking agencies' prompt corrective action powers impose progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the category in which an institution is classified. These actions can include: requiring an insured depository institution to adopt a capital restoration plan guaranteed by the institution's parent company; placing limits on asset growth and restrictions on activities, including restrictions on transactions with affiliates; restricting the interest rates the institution may pay on deposits; prohibiting the payment of principal or interest on subordinated debt; prohibiting the holding company from making capital distributions without prior regulatory approval; and, ultimately, appointing a receiver for the institution. 

The federal banking agencies also have adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, and compensation and benefits. The federal regulatory agencies may take action against a financial institution that does not meet such standards. 

Depositor Preference 

The FDIC provides that, in the event of the &#8220;liquidation or other resolution&#8221; of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution, including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors, and certain claims for 

administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver, will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including depositors whose deposits are payable only outside of the United States and the parent bank holding company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Community Reinvestment and Consumer Protection Laws 

In connection with its lending activities, the Bank is subject to a number of federal laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and the Community Reinvestment Act (the "CRA"). In addition, federal banking regulators, pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, have enacted regulations limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic consumer information to non-affiliated third parties. The regulations require disclosure of privacy policies and allow consumers to prevent certain personal information from being shared with non-affiliated third parties. 

The CRA requires the appropriate federal banking agency, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess the bank's record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. 

Under the CRA, institutions are assigned a rating of "outstanding," "satisfactory," "needs to improve," or "substantial non-compliance." The Bank received an "outstanding" rating in its most recent CRA evaluation. 

The Company is subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws that extensively govern its relationship with its customers. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Service Members Civil Relief Act and these laws&#8217; respective state-law counterparts, as well as state usury laws and laws regarding unfair and deceptive acts and practices. These and other federal laws, among other things, require disclosures of the cost of credit and terms of deposit accounts, provide substantive consumer rights, prohibit discrimination in credit transactions, regulate the use of credit report information, provide financial privacy protections, prohibit unfair, deceptive and abusive practices, restrict the Company's ability to raise interest rates and subject the Company to substantial regulatory oversight. Violations of applicable consumer protection laws can result in significant potential liability from litigation brought by customers, including actual damages, restitution and attorneys&#8217; fees. Federal bank regulators, state attorneys general and state and local consumer protection agencies may also seek to enforce consumer protection requirements and obtain these and other remedies, including regulatory sanctions, customer rescission rights, action by the state attorney general and civil money penalties. Failure to comply with consumer protection requirements may also result in our failure to obtain any required bank regulatory approval for transactions the Company may wish to pursue or our prohibition from engaging in such transactions even if approval is not required. 

The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the &#8220;CFPB&#8221;) as an agency responsible for promulgating regulations designed to protect consumers including implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws. The Dodd-Frank Act adds prohibitions on unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices to the scope of consumer protection regulations overseen and enforced by the CFPB. The CFPB, along with other prudential regulators and the Department of Justice, have also expanded the focus of their regulatory examinations and investigations to include &#8220;fair and responsible banking.&#8221; Fair and responsible banking strives to provide equal credit opportunities to all applicants of a community, to prohibit discrimination by lenders on the basis of certain borrower characteristics, and to ensure that a bank&#8217;s practices are not deceptive, unfair, or take unreasonable advantage of consumers or businesses when offering retail financial services. The focus also has been expanded to encompass the entire loan life cycle, including post-closing activities such as collections and servicing, and pre-application activities such as marketing and loan solicitation and origination. Fair and responsible banking is intended to ensure that banks provide fair and equitable access to the entire spectrum of financial products and services, including credit cards, student and auto lending, to all consumers and businesses in the marketplaces they serve, and strive to be clear and transparent in all communications with customers, treating them fairly in all circumstances. 

Some of the rules and regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act have not yet been implemented. Accordingly, it remains difficult to predict the ultimate impact the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our financial condition or results of operations. 

Bank Secrecy Act / Anti-Money Laundering Laws 

The Bank is subject to the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. The USA PATRIOT Act substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by creating new laws, regulations, and penalties, imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, and expanding the application of those laws outside the U.S. These laws and regulations require the Bank to implement policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report potential money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of its customers. Violations of these requirements can result in substantial civil and criminal sanctions. In addition, provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act require the federal financial institution regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution's anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 2,200 employees. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Listed below are executive officers of the Parent as of December 31, 2015 . 

Peter S. Ho, 50 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since July 2010 and President since April 2008; Vice Chairman and Chief Banking Officer from January 2006 to April 2008. 

Kent T. Lucien, 62 Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer since April 2008; Trustee, C. Brewer &#38; Co., Ltd. from April 2006 to December 2007. 

Peter M. Biggs, 64 

Vice Chairman since February 2011 and Chief Retail Officer since April 2012; Senior Executive Vice President, Consumer Products Division from March 2006 to February 2011. 

Sharon M. Crofts, 50 

Vice Chairman of Operations and Technology since October 2012; Senior Executive Vice President of Operations from May 2008 to October 2012; Executive Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer from December 2005 to May 2008. 

Wayne Y. Hamano, 61 

Vice Chairman since December 2008 and Chief Commercial Officer since September 2007 and oversees the Commercial Banking and Investment Services Groups; Senior Executive Vice President, Hawaii Commercial Banking Division from July 2006 to September 2007. 

Mark A. Rossi, 66 

Vice Chairman, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary since February 2007; President of Lane Powell PC from July 2004 to January 2007. 

Mary E. Sellers, 59 

Vice Chairman and Chief Risk Officer since July 2005. 

Donna A. Tanoue, 61 

Vice Chairman, Client Relations and Community Activities since February 2007; President of the Bank of Hawaii Foundation since April 2006. 

Derek J. Norris, 66 

Vice Chairman, Residential and Consumer Lending, since August 2014; Senior Executive Vice President and Controller since December 2009; Executive Vice President and Controller since December 2008; Executive Vice President and General Auditor from January 2002 to December 2008. 

Dean Y. Shigemura, 52 

Senior Executive Vice President and Controller since August 2014; Senior Executive Vice President and Treasurer since May 2008. 

