 Item 1. Business 

Introduction 

We were incorporated in California on February 1, 2000. We have conducted our operations since October 2003. We are a biopharmaceutical company that engages in the acquisition, licensing and commercialization of pharmaceutical products and technologies as well as homeopathic and ethical drugs for the management of pain, neurological disorders, cancer, autoimmune and infectious diseases. Homeopathic drugs are natural products that contain ingredients listed in the HPUS (Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States). An ethical drug is a licensed drug that has obtained Federal Drug Administration (&#147;FDA&#148;) approval after extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing. We seek strategic licensing partnerships to reduce the risks associated with the drug development process.

Our wholly owned subsidiary and drug discovery arm, ReceptoPharm, has carried out our homeopathic and drug discovery research and clinical development and has fully developed four homeopathic drugs for the treatment of pain:

&#183;

Cobroxin&#174;, an over-the-counter pain reliever designed to treat moderate to severe (Stage 2) chronic pain; and

&#183;

Nyloxin&#174; and Nyloxin&#174; Extra Strength: stronger versions of Cobroxin&#174;

&#183;

Pet Pain-Away: an over-the-counter pain reliever designed to treat pain in cats and dogs

Our business plan will continue its efforts to produce, market and distribute our Cobroxin &#174; , Nyloxin &#174; and Pet Pain-Away branded products both domestically and internationally.

From October 2009 until December 31, 2015, our operations centered on the marketing of Cobroxin &#174; and Nyloxin &#174; and Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength. In December of 2014, we launched Pet Pain-Away and began actively marketing the product. Through the sales of Cobroxin &#174; , Nyloxin &#174; , Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength and Pet Pain-Away we have earned accumulated net revenues of $291,302. During fiscal year 2015, we earned revenues of $279,969 from sales of Nyloxin &#174; and $11,333 from sales of Pet Pain-Away.

Additionally, the Company has developed two drug candidates:

&#183;

RPI-78M, to treat neurological diseases and autoimmune diseases, including; Multiple Sclerosis (MS), Adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN), Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS or Lou Gehrig&#146;s disease), Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) and Myasthenia Gravis; and

&#183;

RPI-MN, to treat viral diseases, including HIV/AIDS and Herpes.

The Company has developed proprietary therapeutic protein products primarily for the prevention and treatment of viral and neurological diseases, including Multiple Sclerosis (MS), Adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN), Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and pain in humans. These potential products are subject to FDA approval.

We continue to identify biotechnology related intellectual property and companies with which we may potentially be able to enter into arrangements, agreements or to potentially acquire.

Industry Overview of the Pain Market 

Pain is the most common symptom for patients seeking medical attention. Acute and chronic pain affects large numbers of Americans, with approximately 100 million U.S. adults burdened by chronic pain alone. The annual national economic cost associated with chronic pain is estimated to be $560-635 billion. (Institute of Medicine, Relieving Pain in America , 2011).

The global market for pain management products, including prescription and nonprescription analgesics, reached over $50 billion in 2009 according to an August 2010 article published in the journal Nature Reviews Drug Discovery. The current market for pain drugs is expected to continue to grow according to BCC Research, a market research firm that believes the aging baby boomer population will continue to trigger growth in this market resulting in a $44.3 billion US market size by 2020.

Our Products 

Cobroxin &#174; 

We offer Cobroxin &#174; , our over-the-counter pain reliever that has been clinically proven to treat moderate to severe (Stage 2) chronic pain. Cobroxin &#174; is not currently being marketed. In August 2009, we completed an agreement with XenaCare Holdings (&#147;XenaCare&#148;) granting it the exclusive license to market and distribute Cobroxin &#174; within the United States. In mid-October 2009, XenaCare began selling Cobroxin &#174; online through its product website, www.Cobroxin.com.

In November 2009, XenaCare began selling Cobroxin &#174; to brick-and-mortar retailers, including distribution to CVS in March 2010 and Walgreens in May 2010. On April 1, 2011, we notified our Cobroxin &#174; Distributor, XenaCare that they were in breach of our agreement. As a result of this, the distribution agreement was terminated effective April 10, 2011. XenaCare had a large stock of the product that they had ordered from us and we had allowed them to continue to market their existing inventory of Cobroxin &#174; . In October 2011 we discontinued their website at www.Cobroxin.com. All current traffic to that website is now redirected to www.Nyloxin.com. It is our plan to eventually re-launch Cobroxin &#174; .

Cobroxin &#174; was available as a two ounce topical gel for treating joint pain and pain associated with arthritis and repetitive stress, and as a one ounce oral spray for treating lower back pain, migraines, neck aches, shoulder pain, cramps, and neuropathic pain. Both the topical gel and oral spray are packaged and sold as a one-month supply.

Cobroxin &#174; offers several benefits as a pain reliever. With increasing concern about consumers using opioid and acetaminophen-based pain relievers, Cobroxin &#174; provides an alternative that does not rely on opiates or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, otherwise known as NSAIDs, for its pain relieving effects. Cobroxin &#174; also has a well-defined safety profile. Since the early 1930s, the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) of Cobroxin &#174; , Asian cobra venom, has been studied in more than 46 human clinical studies. The data from these studies provide clinical evidence that cobra venom provides an effective treatment for pain with few side effects and has the following benefits:

&#183;

safe and effective;

&#183;

all natural;

&#183;

long-acting;

&#183;

easy to use;

&#183;

non-narcotic;

&#183;

non-addictive; and

&#183;

analgesic and anti-inflammatory.

Potential side effects from the use of Cobroxin &#174; are rare, but may include headache, nausea, vomiting, sore throat, allergic rhinitis and coughing.

Nyloxin &#174; /Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength 

Nyloxin &#174; and Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength are similar to Cobroxin &#174; because they both contain the same active ingredient as Cobroxin &#174; , Asian cobra venom. The primary difference between Nyloxin &#174; , Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength and Cobroxin &#174; is the dilution level of the venom. The approximate dilution levels for Nyloxin &#174; , Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength and Cobroxin &#174; are:

Nyloxin &#174; 

&#183;

Topical Gel: 30 mcg/mL

&#183;

Oral Spray: 70 mcg/mL

Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength 

&#183;

Topical Gel: 60 mcg/mL

&#183;

Oral Spray: 140 mcg/mL

Cobroxin &#174; 

&#183;

Topical Gel: 20 mcg/mL

&#183;

Oral Spray: 35 mcg/mL

In December 2009, we began marketing Nyloxin&#174; and Nyloxin&#174; Extra Strength at www.nyloxin.com. Both Nyloxin&#174; and Nyloxin&#174; Extra Strength are packaged in a roll-on container, squeeze bottle and as an oral spray. Additionally, Nyloxin&#174; topical gel is available in an 8 ounce pump bottle.

In December of 2013, we announced an agreement with MyNyloxin.com for the exclusive rights to market and distribute Nyloxin &#174; in the Network Marketing channel. In January of 2014, we announced the first product shipments to the MyNyloxin Independent Entrepreneurs (MIEs). In November of 2014, MyNyloxin.com changed their name to Lumaxa. Lumaxa provides a business opportunity to their Distributors to earn commissions on the sale of our products through their Distributor groups. Lumaxa conducts webinars, conference calls and live meetings to support recruitment of new distributors as well as to provide product and business education.

We are currently marketing Nyloxin &#174; and Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength as treatments for moderate to severe chronic pain. Nyloxin &#174; is available as an oral spray for treating back pain, neck pain, headaches, joint pain, migraines, and neuralgia and as a topical gel for treating joint pain, neck pain, arthritis pain, and pain associated with repetitive stress. Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength is available as an oral spray and gel application for treating the same physical indications, but is aimed at treating the most severe (Stage 3) pain that inhibits one&#146;s ability to function fully.

Nyloxin &#174; Military Strength 

In December 2012, we announced the availability of Nyloxin &#174; Military Strength for sale to the United States Military and Veteran's Administration. Over the past few years, the U.S. Department of Defense has been reporting an increase in the use and abuse of prescription medications, particularly opiates. In 2009, close to 3.8 million prescriptions for pain relievers were written in the military. This staggering number was more than a 400% increase from the number of prescriptions written in the military in 2001. But prescription drugs are not the only issue. The most common and seemingly harmless way to treat pain is with non steroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS). But there are risks. Overuse can cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, heartburn, ulcers and internal bleeding. In severe cases chest pain, heart failure, kidney dysfunction and life-threatening allergic reactions can occur. It is reported that approximately 7,600 people in America die from NSAID use and some 78,000 are hospitalized. Ibuprofen, also an NSAID has been of particular concern in the military. The terms &#147;Ranger Candy&#148; and &#147;Military Candy&#148; refer to the service men and women who are said to use 800mg doses of Ibuprofen to control their pain. But when taking anti-inflammatory Ibuprofen in high doses for chronic pain, there is potential for critical health risks; abuse can lead to serious stomach problems, internal bleeding and even kidney failure. There are significantly greater health risks when abuse of this drug is combined with alcohol intake. Our goal is that with Nyloxin &#174; , we can greatly reduce the instances of opiate abuse and overuse of NSAIDS in high risk groups like the US military. The Nyloxin &#174; Military Strength represents the strongest version of Nyloxin &#174; available and is approximately twice as strong as Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength. We are working with outside consultants to register Nyloxin &#174; Military Strength and the other Nyloxin &#174; products for sale to the US government and the various arms of the military as well as the Veteran's Administration. To date, we have been unable to get our products onto the Federal Supply Schedule for eventual sales to governmental agencies or to the US Military, but will continue these efforts. In February of 2016, we announced the addition of Thomas W. Northrop as the Company's Senior Commercial Development Officer . Mr. Northrop, working with Tri-State Capital Partners, LLC, a New York-based management advisory &#38; investment firm, will be spearheading our efforts to gain approval with the US government buying agencies and the Veterans Administration.

We are pursuing international drug registrations in Canada, Mexico, India, Central and South America and Europe. Since European rules for homeopathic drugs are different than the rules in the US, we cannot estimate when this process will be completed. On March 25, 2013 we announced the publication of our patent and trademark for Nyloxin &#174; in India. We are currently working with potential Distributors in India. In February, 2015 we completed the first test shipments to India through our importer, S.Zhaveri Pharmakem. We plan to begin active sales and marketing in India by the end of 2016. On April 30, 2015 we announced that we had received notification of the acceptance of Nyloxin &#174; by the China International Exchange and Promotive Association for Medical and Healthcare (CPAM). This process was successfully conducted by the Vancouver Commodities Group (VCG) that had been hired by Nutra Pharma to begin the process of identifying and vetting potential distributors in China. With this approval, we have been working with several groups to find a large distributor for our products in the People's Republic of China. We expect to announce a distribution partner by the third quarter of 2016. On May 14, 2015 we announced that we had engaged the Nature's Clinic to begin the process of regulatory approval of our Company's Over-the-Counter pain drug, Nyloxin &#174; for marketing and distribution in Canada. The Nature&#146;s Clinic has already begun setting up their Chatham, Ontario warehouse and expect to complete the approval process to begin distributing Nyloxin &#174; by mid-2016. Additionally, we plan to complete several human clinical studies aimed at comparing the ability of Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength to replace prescription pain relievers. We have provided protocols to several hospitals and will provide details and timelines when those protocols have been accepted. We cannot provide any timeline for these studies until adequate financing is available.

To date, our marketing efforts have been limited due to lack of funding. As sales increase, we plan to begin marketing more aggressively to increase the sales and awareness of our products.

Pet Pain-Away 

During June of 2013, we announced the launch of our new homeopathic formula for the treatment of chronic pain in companion animals, Pet Pain-Away. Pet Pain-Away is a homeopathic, non-narcotic, non-addictive, over-the-counter pain reliever, primarily aimed at treating moderate to severe chronic pain in companion animals. It is specifically indicated to treat pain from hip dysplasia, arthritis pain, joint pain, and general chronic pain in dogs and cats. The initial product run was completed in December of 2014 and launched through Lumaxa Distributors on December 19, 2014.

Equine Nyloxin &#174; 

In October of 2013, we announced that we were in the process of launching the newest addition to our line of homeopathic treatments for chronic pain, Equine Nyloxin&#174; , a topical therapy for horses that is packaged as a two piece kit: Nyloxin&#174; Topical Gel comprises Step 1 and a solution of DMSO (dimethylsulfoxide) comprises Step 2. We have been working with trainers and veterinarians in the equine industry and have already identified distributors for the product. The Equine Nyloxin&#174; represents the Company's first topical solution for the animal market. The product is now undergoing market evaluation and is expected to be commercially available by the end of 2016.

Regulation 

The active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) in Cobroxin &#174; , Nyloxin &#174; and Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength, Asian cobra venom, has an approved United States monograph under the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States (HPUS), which allowed us to register them with the FDA as homeopathic drugs. A United States monograph is a prescribed formulation for the production of any drug or product that is recognized by law for a specific application and that may be introduced into commerce. The FDA requires this registration process to maintain full compliance of companies marketing and selling medicines classified as homeopathic. In August 2009, we successfully completed submission of final packaging and labeling to the FDA to begin selling our over-the-counter pain reliever, Cobroxin &#174; . In December 2009, we completed our submission of final packaging and labeling to the FDA of Nyloxin &#174; and Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength.

Manufacturing 

ReceptoPharm oversees Cobroxin &#174; and Nyloxin &#174; &#146;s manufacturing activities, both at its Good Manufacturing Practice (&#147;GMP&#148;) certified facility and at a third-party manufacturing and bottling facility. ReceptoPharm is also responsible for acquiring appropriate amounts of Asian cobra venom required to manufacture Cobroxin &#174; and Nyloxin &#174; .

Subject to availability of funds, ReceptoPharm also plans to begin additional clinical studies for our pain relievers. These studies will be designed to compare the efficacy of Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength to other prescription strength pain relievers. A ReceptoPharm study published in Toxicon , which is the journal of the International Society of Toxinology, showed that ReceptoPharm&#146;s leading drug product for the treatment of pain (RPI-78) had pain-reducing effects that lasted four times as long as morphine without the negative side effects associated with opioid-based pain relievers. Another study published in the journal Neuropharmacology showed a new mechanism on the use of Alpha-Cobratoxin as a treatment for pain. Alpha-Cobratoxin is the main component of the cobra venom used in Nyloxin &#174; and Cobroxin &#174; .

The FDA requires those companies manufacturing homeopathic medicines to have their facilities certified as GMP. As of October 2005, ReceptoPharm&#146;s manufacturing and laboratory facility has been fully compliant with its GMP certification. In March 2009, ReceptoPharm received an ISO Class 5 certification for its clean room facility. An ISO Class 5 certification is a type of classification granted for a clean room facility according to the number and size of particles permitted per volume of air. An ISO Class 5 clean room has at most, 3,500 particles per square meter.

Manufacturing Cobroxin &#174; and Nyloxin &#174; entails a two-step process, the first of which consists of ReceptoPharm manufacturing the bulk raw materials and completing the dilution levels of Cobroxin &#174; &#146;s and Nyloxin &#174; &#146;s active pharmaceutical ingredient (&#147;API&#148;) as provided for in the Homeopathic Pharmacopeia of the United States, which is a compilation of continuously updated statements of Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia standards and monographs as recognized by that organization. Once this process is completed, the second step entails transport of raw materials to a third-party manufacturer that completes the final mixing, bottling and shipping processes.

We began limited manufacturing of Nyloxin &#174; in November 2010. We scaled up manufacturing in the first quarter of 2011. Our production level is contingent upon product demand level and we can scale up as sales demand increases. We began manufacturing Pet Pain-Away in late 2014 and completed the first run of products for distribution on December 19, 2014.

Marketing and Distribution 

In August 2009, we completed an agreement with XenaCare granting them the exclusive license to market and distribute Cobroxin &#174; within the United States. To maintain this market exclusivity, XenaCare was required to meet certain minimum performance requirements. On April 1, 2011, we notified our Cobroxin &#174; Distributor, XenaCare Holdings that they were in breach of our agreement. As a result of this, the distribution agreement was terminated effective April 10, 2011. XenaCare had a large stock of the product that they had ordered from us and we have allowed them to continue to market their existing inventory of Cobroxin &#174; . In October 2011 we discontinued their website at www.Cobroxin.com. All current traffic to that website is now redirected to www.Nyloxin.com. It is our plan to eventually re-launch Cobroxin &#174; with an eventual return to retail stores.

In December of 2013, we announced an agreement with MyNyloxin.com for the exclusive rights to market and distribute Nyloxin &#174; in the Network Marketing channel. In November of 2014, MyNyloxin.com changed their name to Lumaxa. They provide a business opportunity to their Distributors to earn commissions on the sale of our products through their Distributor groups. In January of 2014, we announced the first product shipments to the MyNyloxin Independent Entrepreneurs (MIEs). Lumaxa conducts webinars, conference calls and live meetings to support recruitment of new distributors as well as to provide product and business education.

We are continuing our efforts to find strategic partnerships for the promotion, marketing, registration, licensing and sales of our products domestically and internationally. 

Dependence on one or a Few Major Customers 

With respect to Nyloxin &#174; , Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength and Pet Pain-Away, we have been distributing the products online and to various retailers. We are seeking both domestic and international distributors for these products. It may be that a larger distributor may require exclusivity in the US or any particular foreign market. If so, we would be dependent on that distributor for those Nyloxin &#174; sales. Currently, Lumaxa is the exclusive global Nyloxin &#174; and Pet Pain-Away Distributor in the Network Marketing channel.

International Drug Registrations 

We are continuing our efforts to complete the registration process internationally. On March 25, 2013 we announced the publication of our patent and trademark for Nyloxin &#174; in India. We are currently working with potential Distributors in India. In February, 2015 we completed the first test shipments to India through our importer, S.Zhaveri Pharmakem. We plan to begin active sales and marketing in India by the end of 2016. In April of 2015 we announced the engagement of the Vancouver Commodity Group to identify potential distribution partners in China. Later that month, we announced the acceptance of Nyloxin &#174; by the China International Exchange and Promotive Association for Medical and Healthcare (CPAM). With this approval, we have been working with several groups to find a large distributor for our products in the People's Republic of China. We expect to announce a distribution partner by the third quarter of 2016.

While many countries adopt similar regulation to the United States for registering homeopathic drugs, the international application process is more complex and may be lengthier. We will continue to seek qualified, well-funded distributors for the international distribution of Cobroxin &#174; and Nyloxin &#174; .

ReceptoPharm&#146;s Homeopathic Drug Pain Relief Studies 

MS Neuropathic Pain Phase IV 

Pending adequate financing or revenues, we will continue our research and development into this area, with the ultimate goal of improving product claims for Nyloxin&#153; Extra Strength, which is a treatment for stage 3 pain. Our original start and completion dates were March 2010 and September 2010, respectively, which includes a 10-week patient trial period. We have thus far incurred costs of $5,000 with a total estimated budget of $130,000. Due to our poor financial condition, we have currently discontinued all of our clinical activities. We have no way of knowing at this time, if or when we will have adequate funding to reinitiate these trials.

Chronic Back Pain Phase I 

Pending adequate financing or revenues, we will continue our research and development in this area, with the ultimate goal of completing development of our future product, Recet, which is an injectable version of Cobratoxin. Our original start and completion dates were April 2010 and November 2011, respectively, which includes a 4-week patient trial period. We have thus far incurred costs of $25,000 with a total estimated budget of $250,000. Due to our poor financial condition we have currently discontinued all of our clinical activities. We have no way of knowing at this time, if or when we will have adequate funding to reinitiate these trials.

Chr onic Back Pain Phase IV 

Pending adequate financing or revenues, we will continue our research and development, with this ultimate goal of improving product claims for Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength, which is a treatment for stage 3 pain. Our original start and completion dates were April 2010 and November 2010, respectively, which includes a 4-week patient trial period. We have an estimated budget of $250,000. We have not yet incurred any costs associated with the Chronic Back Pain Phase IV project. Due to our poor financial condition, we have currently discontinued all of our clinical activities. We have no way of knowing at this time, if or when we will have adequate funding to reinitiate these trials.

All of these studies have been delayed since June of 2010 due to our lack of revenues and funding. We will reassess our start and completion dates upon generating a sufficient amount of revenues, if ever.

ReceptoPharm &#150; Research and Development 

ReceptoPharm was engaged in the research and development of novel anticholinergic therapeutic protein products for the treatment of autoimmune and neurologic disorders, including Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN), Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) and pain.

Drug Applications 

We have set forth below a summary of ReceptoPharm&#146;s proposed drugs and their potential applications.

Drug 

&#160;

Potential Applications 

RPI-78M

&#160;

MS, AMN, Myasthenia Gravis (MG) and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)

RPI-MN

&#160;

HIV, general anti-viral applications

RPI-78

&#160;

Pain, Arthritis

RPI-70

&#160;

Pain

We believe that ReceptoPharm&#146;s pharmaceutical products have a wide range of applications in a number of chronic, inherited and/or life-threatening viral, autoimmune and neuromuscular degenerative diseases, even though none of these products have FDA or other approval for the treatment of such diseases. These disorders target nerve cells, especially one specific type of cell receptor that is sensitive to the neurotransmitter, acetylcholine, which plays an important role in the transmission of nerve impulses at synapses and myoneural (muscle-nerve) junctions.

Primary Disease Targets 

Through ReceptoPharm&#146;s research program, our goal is to obtain required regulatory approvals of ReceptoPharm&#146;s HIV, MS, and AMN products, so that they can be marketed. In September of 2015 we were granted Orphan Designation by the US-FDA for the treatment of Pediatric Multiple Sclerosis. We have also applied for Orphan drug status for Myasthenia Gravis. The Orphan designation may greatly reduce the costs of clinical trials and shorten the timeline to potential drug approval. ReceptoPharm secures confidentiality agreements prior to initiating contract research in order to protect any patentable opportunities.

Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection 

The analytic firm GBI Research reported in November 2012 that the HIV/AIDS therapeutics market reached $13.5 billion in 2011 in seven top markets: the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Japan. GBI Research predicts these markets will continue to grow to reach $21.8 billion by 2018. According to UNAIDS, an estimated 35.3 million people were living with HIV in 2012 with 69% of all HIV sufferers in sub-Saharan Africa. There were 2.3 million new infections in 2012 and 1.6 million people died of AIDS-related illnesses. Since the beginning of the epidemic, more than 75 million people have contracted HIV and nearly 36 million have died of HIV-related causes. Growth in the HIV therapy market will continue to be driven by the rapidly growing HIV and AIDS population. In the absence of therapeutic intervention, the vast majority of individuals infected with HIV will ultimately develop AIDS, on average in about 10 years, which has a mortality rate approaching 100%. Experts say that the drugs currently available may extend life as much as 40 years, but all of these therapies have negative side effects and fail over time as the virus mutates. These facts make new therapies a necessity. The foregoing information was obtained from the World Health Organization website at www.who.int and the UNAIDS website at www.unaids.org.

To cause infection, HIV needs to gain entry into cells through the attachment to receptors on the cell membrane. These receptors are called chemokine receptors . There are two principal types, CCR5 and CXCR4. Different HIV strains use one of these types. A single drug that would block all of the chemokine receptors (&#147;tropism-independent&#148;) could be more useful, for several reasons, than a mixture of molecules that would have to be used to do the same.

HIV infection therapy currently uses antiviral drug therapies that are associated with the virus&#146;s attachment, fusion with and entry into the host cell. At the present time, there are 35-licensed antiretroviral drugs employed to combat HIV-1 infection and two licensed by the FDA that act as binding/entry inhibitory drugs.

New drugs and adjunct therapies with novel mechanisms of action or unique resistance profiles are needed in the fight against HIV. Constant innovation, in terms of efficacy, side effect profile and dosing are occurring. Current research and development for HIV is focused on adjunctive therapy, which when combined with existing HAART (Highly Active Anti-Retroviral Therapy) regimens reduce side effects, enhance the efficacy of existing treatments and delay the progression of the HIV virus.

Both of ReceptoPharm&#146;s drugs inhibited HIV replication in MAGI cells by 50-60% and peripheral mononuclear cells by 90% in testing conducted by Dr. Juan Lama of the La Jolla Institute for Molecular Medicine in San Diego, California. Separate Phase I studies by Cure Aids Now of Miami, Florida, were conducted by Dr. Jamal with orally and parentally administered RPI-78M in HIV patients confirmed safety, tolerability and provided preliminary evidence of efficacy.

RPI-MN demonstrated the ability to inhibit the replication of highly drug-resistant strains of HIV isolates. Drug resistance has become a critical factor in long-term management of HIV infection with some viral strains developing resistance in as little as 3 weeks.

Multiple Sclerosis (MS) 

Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is thought to be an autoimmune disease that primarily causes central nervous system problems. In MS, the insulating fatty material surrounding the nerve fibers, also known as myelin, which functions to speed signaling from one end of the nerve cell to the other, is attacked by cells of the immune system causing problems in signal transduction. MS is the most common of demyelinating disorders, having a prevalence of approximately 1 per 1,000 persons in most of the United States and Europe. According to the Accelerated Cure Project for Multiple Sclerosis, a national nonprofit organization, 400,000 people in the US are affected by MS and another 2 million globally, with 10,000 new cases diagnosed in the US every year. According to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, although MS occurs most commonly in adults, it is also diagnosed in children and adolescents. Estimates suggest that 8,000-10,000 children (up to 18 years old) in the United States have MS, and another 10,000-15,000 have experienced at least one symptom suggestive of MS. Studies suggest that two to five percent of all people with MS have a history of symptom onset before age 18.

People with MS may experience diverse signs and symptoms. MS symptoms may include pain, fatigue, cognitive impairment, tremors, loss of coordination and muscle control, loss of touch sensation, slurred speech and vision impairment. The course of the disease is unpredictable and for most MS patients, the disease initially manifests a &#147;relapsing-remitting&#148; pattern. Periods of apparent stability are punctuated by acute exacerbations that are sudden unpredictable episodes that might involve impaired vision, diminished ability to control a limb, loss of bladder control, or a great variety of other possible neurologic deficits. In relapsing-remitting MS, some or all of the lost function returns, however, the patient sustains an unceasing, often insidious, accumulation of neuronal damage. As the burden of neural damage grows, new lesions are more likely to produce irreversible impairment of function. Typically, about eight to fifteen years after onset, MS patients enter the secondary-progressive phase. Eventually, progressive MS sufferers become wheelchair-bound, and may become blind and even incapable of speech. There is currently no FDA approved drug that reverses the course of the progressive form of MS.

RPI-78M has shown efficacy in animal models (EAE) for MS and ReceptoPharm is planning new animal studies to gain more insight into the levels of protection that the drugs afford. In one study conducted in August 2007, all members of an untreated animal control group developed signs of disease with different levels of paralysis/muscle weakness. A similar group in the August 2007 study treated with RPI-78M showed no disease in 90% of the animals in both acute and chronic applications of the test. Moreover, there were no toxicities reported though the animals which received doses the equivalent of 280 times a human dose.

Furthermore, we believe that the ability to modulate the host immunostimulatory environment could form the basis of an effective strategy for the long-term control of autoimmunity in diseases like MS and Myasthenia gravis (MG) and is being studied as a therapeutic model for other neuromuscular diseases. Also, we believe our data suggest that it is possible that our novel therapeutic proteins could have a general application in autoimmune diseases based on human studies in Rheumatoid Arthritis and anecdotal reports from patients with Multiple Sclerosis.

In August of 1984, Biogenix applied for and received an Intrastate Investigational Drug (FSDHRS Protocol RA-1 (002)) from the Department of Health and Rehabilitation (HRS) in Florida that permitted the 4-week study of RPI-MN in 13 patients with Rheumatoid arthritis ranging in age from 49 to 81. Patients were enrolled for a period of 4 weeks; the results showed 30% to 49% improvement in range of joint motion, early morning stiffness and stamina (this data, along with other supporting intellectual property was acquired by ReceptoPharm from Biogenix). We believe that the data obtained from the examination of clinical efficacy in these three diseases can augment information from prior clinical studies and lead to the future investigation of treatments for other chronic conditions.

Adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN), Pediatric MS and other Orphan Indications 

Adrenoleukodystrophy, or ALD, is a genetically determined neurological disorder that, according to the Adrenoleukodystrophy Foundation, affects 1 in every 17,900 boys worldwide. The presentation of symptoms occurs between the ages of 4 and 10, and affects the brain with demyelination, which is the stripping away of the fatty coating that keeps nerve pulses confined and maintains the integrity of nerve signals. This process inhibits the nerves&#146; ability to conduct properly, which causes neurological deficits, including visual disturbances, auditory discrimination, impaired coordination, dementia and seizures. Demyelination is an inflammatory response and nerve cells throughout the brain are destroyed.

Adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN) is the most common form of X-ALD, a maternally inherited type of ALD. AMN affects about 40-45% of X-ALD patients and usually presents itself in adolescence or adult life and may be preceded by hypoadrenalism. It is characterized by spastic paraplegia and a peripheral neuropathy, often being diagnosed as Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Nerve conduction studies in AMN show a predominant axonal neuropathy and show a loss of all axons. Lorenzo&#146;s oil, a mixture of glyceryltrioleate and glyceryltrierucate, has been used for over a decade in an open, unblinded fashion with mixed results.

RPI-78M has been utilized in two clinical studies, which were completed at the Charles Dent Metabolic Unit located in London, England. The last trial was classified as a Phase IIb/IIIa study. These studies provided important safety data, showing RPI-78M to be well tolerated by the patients. Further study is warranted to provide data on the potential efficacy of RPI-78M to treat the symptoms of AMN.

In September of 2015 we were granted Orphan Designation by the US-FDA for the treatment of Pediatric Multiple Sclerosis. We are currently working with potential sites of care to conduct a Phase I/II in Pediatric MS. The designation of RPI-78M as an Orphan Drug provides Nutra Pharma with a 7-year period of market exclusivity in the U.S. once the drug is approved. Additional benefits over conventional drug applications include: tax credits for clinical research costs, the ability to apply for grant funding, clinical trial design assistance, plus assistance from the FDA in the drug development process and the waiver of Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) filing fees which could be in excess of $2.5 million. The granting of Orphan Drug Designation allows the Company to move forward with their preparation of an Investigative New Drug Application and proposal of clinical trials. The FDA grants Orphan Drug Designation status to products that treat rare diseases, providing incentives to sponsors developing drugs or biologics. According to the FDA, the Orphan Drug program has successfully enabled the development and marketing of more than 400 drugs and biologic products for rare diseases since 1983. Evaluate Ltd., in its 2014 EvaluatePharma Orphan Drug Report, estimated that orphan drug sales will constitute 19% of the total share of prescription drug sales by 2020, totaling $176bn.

In December of 2015, we announced that we had applied for an Orphan Drug designation from the US-FDA for the Company's RPI-78M drug candidate for the treatment of Myasthenia Gravis (MG). The application is still under review.

Pain and Arthritis 

Protein or peptide-based drugs are penetrating the pain market with neurotoxins taking the lead. Botox (Allergan) and Prialt (Elan) have the potential to substitute over the long-term for morphine and other opiates in chronic pain indications. Opiates, though potent painkillers, suffer from drawbacks because they are addictive, short acting, and drug-resistance inducing. We plan to assess the effects of several peptides in animal models of pain in association with Soochow University in China. Several peptides have demonstrated positive effects and the research and development continues.

August 2007 studies at Soochow University proved the potential of ReceptoPharm&#146;s drug candidates, RPI-78 and RPI-70. When compared to Dolantin, an opiate-based drug subordinate to morphine, the effects were very encouraging. While Dolantin provided immediate pain relief it began wearing off just as RPI-70 began to take effect. The effects of RPI-70 do not seem dramatic in contrast to Dolantin, considering the quantity of drug employed in this animal model. The concentration of RPI-70 was approximately 100 times less than the opiate product. Also, RPI-70 showed real potential for combining with other pain killing medications. RPI-78 was calculated to be 150,000 times more potent than aspirin. This product can be injected systemically providing evidence of a more practical application than Prialt, which must be administered intrathecally (into the spinal cord). Opiate drugs induce tolerance and dependence. This problem is not encountered with RPI-70 and RPI-78.

In February 2009, ReceptoPharm filed a patent application with the United States Patent and Trademark Office for the use of RPI-78 as a novel method for treating arthritis in humans. Also in February 2009, ReceptoPharm, in collaboration with Soochow University in China published positive data from its recent animal studies on the use of RPI-78 (Cobratoxin) as a method for treating arthritis. In March of 2011, ReceptoPharm was issued a patent for the use of cobratoxin as an analgesic (US patent #7,902,152). In February of 2012, ReceptoPharm, in collaboration with Soochow University published another study that demonstrated a novel mechanism of action for the use of RPI-78 as a treatment for pain.

Market Values 

Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) 

The analytic firm GBI Research reported in November 2012 that the HIV/AIDS therapeutics market reached $13.5 billion in 2011 in seven top markets: the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Japan. GBI Research predicts these markets will continue to grow to reach $21.8 billion by 2018. According to UNAIDS, an estimated 35.3 million people were living with HIV in 2012 with 69% of all HIV sufferers in sub-Saharan Africa. There were 2.3 million new infections in 2012 and 1.6 million people died of AIDS-related illnesses. Since the beginning of the epidemic, more than 75 million people have contracted HIV and nearly 36 million have died of HIV-related causes. Growth in the HIV therapy market will continue to be driven by the rapidly growing HIV and AIDS population. In the absence of therapeutic intervention, the vast majority of individuals infected with HIV will 

ultimately develop AIDS, on average in about 10 years, which has a mortality rate approaching 100%. Experts say that the drugs currently available may extend life as much as 40 years, but all of these therapies have negative side effects and fail over time as the virus mutates. These facts make new therapies a necessity. The foregoing information was obtained from the World Health Organization website at www.who.int and the UNAIDS website at www.unaids.org.

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in the United States alone, an estimated 1,144,500 people are infected with an estimated 50,000 Americans becoming infected with HIV each year. The majority undergoes treatment for HIV-related conditions at an individual cost of $14,000 (HAART) to $34,000 (AIDS patients). According to DataMonitor; the HIV market was worth $9.3 billion in 2007. GBI Research predicts these markets will continue to grow to reach $21.8 billion by 2018, driven by the increasing prevalence of HIV worldwide and the longer life expectancy of patients receiving treatment.

Multiple Sclerosis (MS) 

MS affects an estimated 2.5 million people globally with approximately 400,000 sufferers in the United States. There are 5 approved drugs for the treatment of this disease. The average annual cost of these drugs is $12,000 per person. In 2010, sales by one manufacturer, Biogen-Idec, were reported to be $2.5 billion for its drug, Avonex. According to a report by Piribo (Pharmaceutical Market Research), the total worldwide market for MS disease-modifying therapies is expected to grow at an 8.1% compound annual growth rate (CAGR) from 2010 through 2015, with sales reaching nearly $16.7 billion by the end of 2015 from $11.3 billion in 2010. ReceptoPharm&#146;s MS drug, RPI-78M is considered to be a &#145;Biologic&#146;. Biologics represent the largest class of MS disease-modifying therapies by sales and by number of approved therapies. This sector is valued at $7.8 billion in 2010 and is expected to increase at a 2.5% compound annual growth rate (CAGR) to reach a value of $8.8 billion in 2015.

Adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN) 

AMN/ALD affects an estimated 30,000 people in the US with some estimates exceeding this number.

Pediatric Multiple Sclerosis (pediatric-MS) 

According to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, although MS occurs most commonly in adults, it is also diagnosed in children and adolescents. Estimates suggest that 8,000-10,000 children (up to 18 years old) in the United States have MS, and another 10,000-15,000 have experienced at least one symptom suggestive of MS. Studies suggest that two to five percent of all people with MS have a history of symptom onset before age 18.

Myasthenia Gravis (MG) 

According to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America, the prevalence of MG in the United States is estimated to be about 64,000 patients. However, MG is probably under diagnosed and the prevalence may be higher.

Current Technologies 

ReceptoPharm, operating in its capacity as a clinical stage biotechnology company, created a process that safely modifies proteins derived from cobra venom. ReceptoPharm also has rights to a drug delivery method that uses an aerosol formulation, which is administered under the tongue. By using this shared aerosol delivery technology, oral delivery is attainable, an important step for a biologic product. The system is 50% efficient and affects drug delivery in approximately 40% of patients in which it was tested. Topical preparations are being examined for future applications in treatment of such conditions as pain and Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA).

Business Strategy 

Pending adequate financing or revenues, ReceptoPharm seeks to develop proprietary pharmaceutical products for human illnesses that qualify for &#147;Fast-Track&#148; or &#147;Orphan Drug&#148; status under FDA regulations, which can expedite regulatory review. For some conditions, the FDA has created the &#147;two animal rule&#148; which permits ReceptoPharm to collect data from ongoing animal research for human treatment applications.

We believe the results from ReceptoPharm&#146;s research will assist in getting its applications processed through the FDA&#146;s &#147;Fast-Track&#148; approval process and enable ReceptoPharm to plan the commercialization of each product independently and/or through joint ventures, partnerships and licensing arrangements. &#147;Fast-Track&#148; denotes life-threatening illnesses, while &#147;Orphan&#148; status refers to serious ailments affecting less than 200,000 individuals nationwide. AMN qualifies under both labels because it is considered an orphan disease and has no known cure. Pediatric MS and Myasthenia Gravis are also considered &#34;Orphan&#34; diseases because of the disease prevalence as well as the lack of effective therapies.

In the areas of HIV and MS, ReceptoPharm plans to conduct clinical studies of its HIV and MS drugs under development. These &#147;Phase II&#148; studies will either prove or disprove the preliminary efficacy of ReceptoPharm's HIV and MS drugs under development. ReceptoPharm is in the process of attempting to secure agreements with third parties to conduct such clinical studies.

We believe that ReceptoPharm&#146;s proposed unique pharmaceutical products can be used alone or licensed for use in combination with other therapeutic products and may be of interest to other established pharmaceutical companies as a means of extending the patent life of their proprietary products.

Short-term Goal 

Although we focused our drug development efforts from 2006 to 2008 on clinical trials for ReceptoPharm&#146;s HIV drug, RPI-MN, our primary focus now is on RPI-78M for the treatment of MS and MG. With the recent Orphan designation for Pediatric MS, we expect to move into Phase I/II clinical studies in the next 12 months.

Mid-term Goal 

Our midterm strategy is to license ReceptoPharm&#146;s AMN, MS and HIV technologies in our attempt to bring these technologies to market within 5 years, should we obtain adequate financing.

Long-Term Goal 

Our long-term goal is the use of drugs developed by ReceptoPharm in the field of neurological diseases, infectious diseases and autoimmune disorders. Due to our limited financial and operational resources, this goal will require us to establish strategic partners or alliances with pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, biotechnology companies, and clinical diagnostic laboratories, which will: (a) complement ReceptoPharm&#146;s research and development efforts; (b) reduce the risks associated with undertaking the entire process of drug development and marketing; and (c) generate licensing based revenue streams. Additionally, we plan to continue identifying intellectual property and companies in the biotechnology arena as potential acquisition candidates.

Compassionate Release Programs 

Certain countries, such as Canada and the United Kingdom permit their citizens to have access to investigational medications without being approved for any applications by their respective &#147;FDA type&#148; agencies, and permit physicians to prescribe drugs they believe are of possible benefits to the patients. Through these &#147;Compassionate Release Programs&#148; ReceptoPharm has supplied RPI-78M, its drug under investigation for MS and AMN, to physicians in the United Kingdom. The FDA does not offer this program.

Clinical Trial Applications 

ReceptoPharm has developed Common Technical Documents (CTD) for both RPI-78M and RPI-MN that are used to support any clinical trial application. The CTD is a complete history of the individual drug, including all of the in-vitro and in-vivo work accomplished to date, as well as pre-clinical development work on the drug. Having these completed documents allows for expedited due diligence from regulatory bodies reviewing ReceptoPharm&#146;s applications for trials and approvals. With these documents, ReceptoPharm has successfully applied for approval to conduct a clinical investigation in the United Kingdom under the regulation of the Medicines Health and Regulatory Agency (MHRA), which is the British equivalent of the US-FDA.

Current Research and Development Projects 

Neurological Studies 

Pain Studies 

In an effort to further support Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength, ReceptoPharm had planned to complete two human clinical studies aimed at comparing the ability of Nyloxin &#174; Extra Strength to replace prescription pain relievers. ReceptoPharm originally estimated that these studies would begin during the second quarter of 2010; however, these studies have been delayed because of lack of funding. We have no way of knowing at this time, if or when we will have adequate funding to reinitiate these trials.

AMN Phase II 

ReceptoPharm has been conducting research and development in this area since February 2006 with an original expected completion date of September 2010, which includes a 12-month patient trial period that has already been completed. We have thus far expended approximately $400,000, because ReceptoPharm has completed its AMN Phase II project, there is no further budget for this project.

AMN Phase III 

ReceptoPharm had planned to continue research and development, with the ultimate goal of completing development of its future drug, RPI-78M. ReceptoPharm&#146;s originally estimated start and completion dates are July 2010 and December 2011, respectively, which includes a 12-month patient trial period. ReceptoPharm has thus far incurred costs of $5,000. ReceptoPharm has an estimated budget of $500,000. We have no way of knowing at this time, if or when we will have adequate funding to reinitiate these trials.

MS Phase II (Pediatric MS Phase I/II) 

Pending adequate financing or revenues, ReceptoPharm will continue its research and development, with the ultimate goal of completing development of its future drug, RPI-78M. ReceptoPharm&#146;s originally estimated start and completion dates are October 2010 and October 2012, respectively, which includes a 12-month patient trial period. ReceptoPharm has thus far incurred costs of $40,000. ReceptoPharm has an estimated budget of $2,000,000. We have no way of knowing at this time, if or when we will have adequate funding to reinitiate these trials. 

Currently, ReceptoPharm&#146;s total estimated costs for all of the above projects are approximately $3,000,000.

All of these studies have been delayed due to a lack of revenues and funding. Upon obtaining sufficient revenues, if ever, ReceptoPharm will provide updated estimates of start and completion dates.

Since receiving Orphan designation for the treatment of Pediatric MS, our plans have changed. We are now working with potential sites of care to initiate a Phase I/II clinical trial in Pediatric MS. Our next step is to have a pre-IND meeting with the FDA to go over the proposed trial protocols. It is our goal to begin these trials by the end of 2016.

Research and Development 

During 2015 and 2014, we had research and development costs of $0 and $341, respectively.

Dependence on one or a Few Major Customers 

We have no customers with respect to our research and development projects since we have not received FDA approval for our drug candidates and have not licensed any of our technologies.

Marketing 

We currently do not have a marketing program for our drug candidates because none of ReceptoPharm&#146;s products have received FDA approval. Our lack of financing has hampered our efforts to navigate the regulatory process in a timely fashion; however, if and when we have FDA-approved drug treatments, we plan to develop a marketing strategy to market ReceptoPharm&#146;s products through pharmaceutical companies, other biotechnology companies, and diagnostic laboratories. Our Chief Executive Officer will market the treatments to licensing and development officers of those companies and will otherwise direct our marketing program. Additionally, we will attempt to secure consulting agreements with marketing consultants who will actively market our products to such companies and/or provide our Chief Executive Officer with marketing guidance.

Potential Revenue Segments 

Our potential revenue segments are composed of our attempt to generate revenues from license agreements, joint ventures in foreign countries and drug sales.

To date, we have not earned any revenues regarding any FDA drug candidate.

Product Liability 

We maintain product liability insurance for our commercial products. Even so, product liability claims may result in significant legal costs related to our defense of such actions if damage amounts exceed our product liability insurance coverage. The design, development, and manufacture of drug products or diagnostic tests involves an inherent risk of product liability claims and corresponding damage to our brand name reputation, including claims of product failure or harm caused by the drug product.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

ReceptoPharm uses the raw material, cobra venom, for the drugs that it studies and in Cobroxin &#174; and Nyloxin &#174; production. We currently have two US suppliers of cobra venom that we use according to product demand. In addition, there are other suppliers in 

China, Thailand and India. ReceptoPharm&#146;s management is responsible for locating cobra venom suppliers on an as-needed basis, which involves obtaining a small test amount from a supplier for scientific validation of that raw material prior to purchase. Apart from cobra venom, we do not currently use raw materials in our business.

Compliance with Government Regulations and Need for Government Approval 

The production and marketing of potential drug products as well as research and development activities generally are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. In the United States, vaccines, drugs and certain diagnostic products are subject to FDA review of safety and efficacy. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of such products. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, or refusal of the government to approve Biological License Applications (&#147;BLAs&#148;), Product License Applications (&#147;PLAs&#148;), New Drug Applications (&#147;NDAs&#148;) or refusal to allow a company to enter into supply contracts. The FDA also has the authority to revoke product licenses and establishment licenses previously granted.

In order to obtain FDA approval to market a new biological or pharmaceutical product, proof of product safety, purity, potency and efficacy, and reliable manufacturing capability must be submitted. This requires companies to conduct extensive laboratory, pre clinical and clinical tests. This testing, as well as preparation and processing of necessary applications, is expensive, time-consuming and often takes several years to complete. There is no assurance that the FDA will act favorably in making such reviews. Our potential partners, or we, may encounter significant difficulties or costs in their efforts to obtain FDA approvals, which could delay or preclude from marketing any products that may be developed. The FDA may also require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of marketed products or place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the commercial applications of such products. Product approvals may be withdrawn if problems occur following initial marketing, such as, compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained. Delays imposed by governmental marketing approval processes may materially reduce the period during which a company will have the exclusive right to exploit patented products or technologies. Refusals or delays in the regulatory process in one country may make it more difficult and time consuming to obtain marketing approvals in other countries.

The FDA approval process for a new biological or pharmaceutical drug involves completion of preclinical studies and the submission of the results of these studies to the FDA in an Initial New Drug application, which must be approved before human clinical trials may be conducted. The results of preclinical and clinical studies on biological or pharmaceutical drugs are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA, PLA or NDA for product approval to commence commercial sales. In responding to a BLA, PLA or NDA, the FDA may require additional testing or information, or may deny the application. In addition to obtaining FDA approval for each biological or chemical product, an Establishment License Application (&#147;ELA&#148;) must be filed and the FDA must inspect and license the manufacturing facilities for each product. Product sales may commence only when both BLA/ PLA/ NDA and ELA are approved. In certain instances in which a treatment for a rare disease or condition is concerned, the manufacturer may request the FDA to grant the drug product Orphan Drug status for a particular use. &#147;Orphan Drug&#148; status refers to serious ailments affecting less than 250,000 individuals. In this event, the developer of the drug may request grants from the government to defray the costs of certain expenses related to the clinical testing of such drug and be entitled to marketing exclusivity and certain tax credits.

In order to gain broad acceptance in the marketplace of a medical device, our partners or we will need to receive approval from the FDA and other equivalent regulatory bodies outside of the United States. This approval will be based upon clinical testing programs at major medical centers. Data obtained from these institutions will enable us, or our partners, to apply to the FDA for acceptance of its technology as a &#147;device&#148; through a 510(k) application or exemption process. Once the data have been fully gleaned, it is expected that this process would take ninety days.

According to the FDA, a &#147;device&#148; is: &#147;an instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, contrivance, implant, in vitro reagent, or other similar or related article, including a component part, or accessory which is recognized in the official National Formulary, or the United States Pharmacopoeia, or any supplement to them, intended for use in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions, or in the cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, in man or other animals, or intended to affect the structure or any function of the body of man or other animals, and which does not achieve any of its primary intended purposes through chemical action within or on the body of man or other animals and which is not dependent upon being metabolized for the achievement of any of its primary intended purposes.&#148;

The FDA classifies devices as either Class I/II-exempt, Class II, or Class III.

Class III: Pre-Marketing Approval, or PMA: A Pre-Marketing Approval or PMA is the most stringent type of device marketing application required by FDA. A PMA is an application submitted to FDA to request clearance to market, or to continue marketing of a Class III medical device. A PMA is usually required for products with which FDA has little previous experience and in such cases where the safety and efficacy must be fully demonstrated on the product. The level of documentation is more extensive than for a 510(k) application and the review timeline is usually longer. Under this level of FDA approval, the manufacturing facility will be 

inspected as well as the clinical sites where the clinical trials are being or have been conducted. All the appropriate documents have to be compiled and available on demand by the FDA. The manufacturing facility is registered with the FDA and the product or device is registered with the FDA.

Class II: 510(k). This is one level down from the PMA and it is applied to devices with which the FDA has had previous experience. A 510(k) is a pre-marketing submission made to FDA to demonstrate that the device to be marketed is as safe and effective, that is, substantially equivalent, to a legally marketed device that is not subject to pre-market approval. Applicants must compare their 510(k) device to one or more similar devices currently on the U.S. market and make and support their substantial equivalency claims. The legally marketed device to which equivalence is drawn is known as the &#147;predicate&#148; device. Applicants must submit descriptive data and, when necessary, performance data to establish that their device is SE to a predicate device. Again, the data in a 510(k) is to show comparability, that is, substantial equivalency (SE) of a new device to a predicate device. Under this level of approval, the manufacturing facility is registered with the FDA and the product or device is registered with the FDA. Inspections under this classification are possible. All the appropriate cGMP and clinical data backing the claims made must be on file and available on demand by the FDA.

Class I/II Exemption: This is the lowest level of scrutiny. Most Class I devices and a few Class II devices are exempt from the pre-marketing notification requirements subject to the limitations on exemptions. However, these devices are not exempt from other general controls. All medical devices must be manufactured under a quality assurance program, be suitable for the intended use, be adequately packaged and properly labeled, and have establishment registration and device listing forms on file with the FDA. However, as described above, all the appropriate documentation including cGMP and clinical data supporting the claims being made has to be on hand and available on demand by the FDA. The data must be available to support all the product claims.

Sales of biological and pharmaceutical products and medical devices outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product or a device by a comparable regulatory authority of a foreign country must generally be obtained prior to the commencement of marketing in that country.

Effect of Compliance with Federal, State, and Local Provisions for the Protection of the Environment 

We have no present or anticipated direct future costs associated with environmental compliance, since we are not and will not be directly involved in manufacturing drug products as result of our research and development; however, we may be affected in the percentage licensing fees we receive, since a company may consider the environmental expense as an offset to a determination of the percentage amount we receive. ReceptoPharm produces a drug that has limited waste issues and related costs, but handles environmentally related matters through the FDA's Good Manufacturing Practices, the FDA mandated guidelines pertaining to the production of drugs in the United States.

Ability to Compete 

The biotechnology research and development field is extremely competitive and is characterized by rapid change. Our competitors have substantially greater financial, scientific, and human resources, and as a result greater research and product development capabilities. Our competitors have competitive advantages with greater potential to develop revenue streams. Our competitors are located in the United States as well as around the world. We will attempt to compete by establishing strategic partners or alliances with pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, biotechnology companies, and clinical diagnostic laboratories, which will enter into joint ventures, emphasizing that the drugs RPI-MN and RPI-78M possess the following properties:

&#160;

&#183;

They lack measurable toxicity but are still capable of attaching to and affecting the target site on the nerve cells. This means that patients cannot overdose.

&#183;

They display no significant adverse side effects following years of investigations in humans and animals.

&#183;

The products are stable and resistant to heat, which gives the drug a long shelf life. The drugs&#146; stability has been determined to be over 4 years at room temperature.

RPI-78M can be administered orally; however, ReceptoPharm has not yet developed an orally administered RPI-78M. RPI-78M has been routinely delivered by injection in a manner similar to insulin, but research over the past two years has given rise to administration by mouth. Oral delivery presents patients with additional &#147;quality of life&#148; benefits by eliminating or decreasing the requirements for routine injections. Should we receive adequate funding, ReceptoPharm plans to develop an orally administered RPI-78M by initiating new trials with an oral version of that drug.

Main Competitors (Biologics) 

Competition is intense among companies that develop and market products based on advanced cellular and molecular biology. ReceptoPharm&#146;s competitors, including Amgen, Sanofi-Aventis, Biogen-Idec, Cephalon, Genetech, Genzyme, Novartis, Regeneron 

and Bayer, which have far superior financial, technological and operational resources. We face significant competition from these and other biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. Certain specialized biotechnology firms have also entered into cooperative arrangements with major companies for development and commercialization of products, creating an additional source of competition.

Any products or technologies that successfully address viral or neurological indications could negatively impact the market potential for RPI-78M or RPI-MN. These include products that could receive approval for indications similar to those for which RPI-78M or RPI-MN seeks approval, development of biologic or pharmaceutical treatments that are more effective than existing treatments and the development of other modalities with reduced toxicity and side effects.

Interferon-based drugs and their indications represent target markets for ReceptoPharm. Sales of interferon-based drugs annually exceed $6 billion and have attracted the participation of several major drug companies, including Bayer and Roche. Currently, there are six interferon-based drugs licensed in Canada and the U.S.; four for the treatment of the milder Relapsing-Remitting form of MS and two for Hepatitis C. These interferons are also used in the treatment of other conditions where treatment options are limited. The interferons for MS are Betaseron (Bayer), Avonex (Biogen-Idec) and Rebif (Serono and Pfizer). Since the launch of these drugs, the number of patients undergoing treatment has stabilized at current levels, indicating that there is a high turnover rate of patients in the administration of these individual drugs due to cost and side effects. Biogen developed Avonex in the early 1990&#146;s and has been shipping the drug since late 1996. In the United Kingdom, the National Institute for Clinical Efficiency (NICE) has called for the withdrawal of Betaseron and another unrelated drug, Copaxone (Teva), from the market based on poor cost/effectiveness.

Gilead Sciences markets Harvoni as a 'cure' for Hepatitis C. It combines two drugs: Sovaldi (sofosbuvir) and ledipasvir. Harvoni is taking over the market as Gilead has turned Hepatitis C into a curable illness and has generated over $25B in sales. 

Main Competitors (Venom-Based Drugs) 

We view our main competitors as those who also engage in the development of protein-based neurotoxins as therapeutics. Employing venoms as therapeutics is not new . A large number of well-known pharmaceutical companies are developing novel therapies derived from snake venoms and other reptiles. Most of those using snake venoms employ the anticoagulant enzymes usually from viperids (adders and rattlesnakes) though elapids (cobra family) are also being investigated.

We have set forth below a summary of venom-based drugs and their potential applications.

Company 

Drug 

Application 

Pentapharm

Batroxobin

Anticoagulant from Lancehead viper 

Knoll Pharmaceutical

Ancrod

Anticoagulant from rattlesnakes

Bristol-Myers Squibb

Capoten

Antihypertensive from Brazilian Pit Viper

Medicure

Aggrastat

Antiplatelet drug from vipers

Millennium Pharmaceutical

Integrilin

Antiplatelet drug from rattlesnakes

Amylin Pharmaceuticals

Byetta

Treatment for type 2 diabetes and obesity from Gila Monster

Elan Pharmaceuticals

Prialt

Intrathecal drug from cone snails for intractable pain

Current cobra venom-based therapies include Keluoqu, a pain-killing drug on the market in China since 1978. Keluoque contains cobrotoxin as its primary ingredient and is used to control severe pain in advanced cancer patients and for post-operative pain.

Bio-Therapeutics, Inc. 

On October 3, 2003, we entered into a non-assignable license agreement between Bio-Therapeutics, Inc. and us, which was then amended to make the license agreement assignable. This agreement was in settlement of a lawsuit that we filed against Bio-Therapeutics alleging that Bio-Therapeutics owed us $850,000 in connection with a merger agreement between Bio-Therapeutics and us that was cancelled.

The 2003 license agreement provides that for a non-exclusive license to certain intellectual property of Bio-Therapeutics, Inc., which consists of the following two distinct technology platforms:

&#183;

Alteration of Proteins and Peptides - These include patented methods for altering the 3-Dimensional structure of certain proteins and peptides. The natural peptides bind to receptors in the body with toxic effects. This technology allows us to alter the structure of these peptides, preserving their receptor-binding characteristics, while making them non-toxic and therapeutic. Different receptors have various functions in many disease states. By the peptides binding to these receptors in a controlled fashion, certain disease symptoms may be treated. In connection with MS, binding to the acetylcholine receptor on the nerves allows for more efficient nerve conduction. With HIV, binding to chemokine receptors may prevent the virus from entering and infecting new cells.

&#183;

Non- Exclusive License for &#147;Buccal Delivery System&#148;(&#147;Buccal&#148;) &#150; An innovative aerosolized drug delivery system that is patent pending. Many therapeutic agents cannot be effectively delivered by aerosol formulation due to their large size and/or irregular shapes. Since these therapeutic agents cannot be ingested orally without being degraded by the digestive system, patients have no alternative but to directly inject these drugs. We have a non-exclusive license to the Buccal patent pending proprietary aerosol formulation, which greatly enhances the permeability of the mucous membranes found on the roof of the mouth and the back of the throat. This allows for the easy and efficient systemic delivery into the bloodstream of a much wider variety of proteins and peptides. This non-exclusive license for &#147;Buccal Delivery System&#148; and patent pending application includes claims that identify the active mucosal enhancer, its combination with therapeutic agents and the mode of delivery through aerosol. This may allow for the effective and pain-free delivery of peptide and protein therapeutics for the treatment of HIV and MS.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and Intellectual Property 

We have the following patents expiring at various dates indicated below:

Bio-Therapeutics Patents 

We hold the license to certain intellectual property belonging to Bio-Therapeutics that has either been granted a patent or is in the patent application process as follows:

U.S. Patent No. 5,989,857, Polypeptide compositions and methods was granted in November 1999 with 10 claims. The patent outlines a method of preparing a bioactive polypeptide in a stable, inactivated form, the method comprising the step of treating the polypeptide with ozonated water in order to oxidize and/or stabilize the cysteine residues, and in turn, prevent the formation of disulfide bridges necessary for bioactivity. This patent expires on May 10, 2016.

U.S. Patent No. 6,670,148, Compositions comprising bioactive peptides prepared without formation of native disulfide bonds was granted in December 2003, with 9 claims. The patent further describes a method of preparing a bioactive polypeptide in a stable, inactivated form, the method comprising the step of treating the polypeptide with ozonated water in order to oxidize and/or stabilize the cysteine residues, and in turn, prevent the formation of disulfide bridges necessary for bioactivity. The method can involve the use of ozonated water to both oxidize the disulfide bridges in a bioactive polypeptide, and to then stabilize the resultant cysteine residues. Optionally, and preferably, the method can involve the use of ozonated water to stabilize the cysteine residues, and thereby prevent the formation of disulfide bridges, in a polypeptide produced by recombinant means in a manner that allows the polypeptide to be recovered with the disulfide bridges unformed. This Patent expires on May 10, 2016.

U.S. Patent Application Number 11/415377, Buccal Delivery System, with 20 claims. The patent describes a delivery formulation and system for delivering inactivated bioactive peptides to the body. The formulation includes effective amounts of the peptide as well as a mucosal permeation enhancer selected from the group consisting of quaternary ammonium salts. The system can be used by spraying the formulation into the buccal cavity, e.g., to the roof of the mouth. This application is currently listed as abandoned as of December 2009.

U.S. Patent Application Number 11/431126, Immunokine composition and method with 31 claims. The patent describes a composition and method for preventing HIV infection of mammalian cells. One aspect of the invention relates to an anti-immunodeficiency virus immunokine capable of binding to a cellular protein in a manner that prevents HIV infection of that cell. The compositions can include either an active bioactive polypeptide, such as native cobratoxin, and/or an inactivated bioactive polypeptide, such as cobratoxin in which one or more of the native disulfide bridges have been prevented from forming. The term &#147;immunokine&#148; is used to refer to an inactivated bioactive polypeptide, whether inactivated by chemical, genetic, and/or synthetic means as described herein, with the proviso that a corresponding active bioactive polypeptides can be included where applicable (e.g., for in vitro use). This application is currently listed as abandoned as of June 2009.

ReceptoPharm Patents 

ReceptoPharm has three issued and several patents pending with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These patents include:

U.S. Patent No. 8,034,777, Modified Anticholinergic Neurotoxins as Modulators of the Autoimmune Reaction was granted in October 2011with 7 claims. The patent describes a method of treatment of a human patient suffering from Multiple Sclerosis comprising the administration of a disease-mitigating amount of a composition consisting of detoxified and modified alpha-cobratoxin in a saline solution. This patent is meant to protect and support our work in the production of drugs for the treatment of auto-immune diseases.

U.S. Patent No. 7,902,152, Use of cobratoxin as an analgesic was granted in March 2011 with 16 claims. The patent describes a composition of matter for an analgesic and its method of use is disclosed. The method of use is for the treatment of chronic pain, especially to the treatment of heretofore intractable pain as associated with advanced cancer. The pain associated with neurological conditions, rheumatoid arthritis, viral infections and lesions is also contemplated. The method includes administering to a host an alpha-neurotoxin that is characterized by its ability to blocking of the action of acetylcholine at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Currently, this would be applied to the Company's current and future drugs for the treatment of pain.

U.S. Patent No. 7,758,894, Modified elapid venoms as stimulators of the immune reaction was granted in July, 2010 with 14 claims. The patent describes a method of protection from infections by administering a detoxified and neurotropically active modified venom containing alpha-cobratoxin. Protection includes bacterial, viral and parasitic infections. This patent is meant to protect and support our work in our production of anti-infective treatments. Currently, this would be applied to RPI-MN and RPI-78.

U.S. Patent Application Number 11/217,713, Modified venom and venom components as anti-retroviral agents with 10 claims was filed in September 2005. The present invention describes a method of treatment of human subject suffering from infection with HIV, comprising administering a disease mitigating amount of a detoxified, modified cobra venom composition in an amount effective to ameliorate at least one symptom of said infection. This patent is meant to protect and support our work in the production of anti-viral treatments. Currently, this would be applied to RPI-MN and RPI-78.

U.S. Patent Application Number 11/784,607, Treatment of Autoimmune Disorders Using Detoxified Cobratoxin was filed in April 2007. The patent describes a method of treating patients suffering from autoimmune disorders comprising the administration of detoxified cobra venom. This patent is meant to protect and support our work in the production of drugs for the treatment of auto-immune diseases. Currently, this would be applied to RPI-78MN.

U.S. Patent Application Number 12/317,115, Alpha-neurotoxin Proteins with Anti-inflammatory Properties and Uses Thereof was filed in December 2008. The patent describes a method of treating an arthritic condition comprising the administration to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising an isolated alpha-neurotoxin protein or an effective fragment thereof. This patent is meant to protect and support our work in the production of drugs for the treatment of inflammatory diseases.

Patents Assigned to Us by Nanologix, Inc. 

Because we have focused on our drugs, we have not continued any activity in our former Designer Diagnostics division since June, 2011. As results become available through the validation process taking place at National Jewish Hospital in Denver and funding becomes available, we may revisit the technology and re-engage our efforts in Designer Diagnostics.

On January 24, 2006 we entered into an Agreement with NanoLogix whereby we exchanged our entire holding of NanoLogix common stock for intellectual property pertaining to the manufacture of test kits for the rapid isolation, detection and antibiotic sensitivity testing of certain mycobacteria. The agreement provides that: (a) NanoLogix has reassigned to us 11 key patents protecting the diagnostics test kit technology in exchange for our entire holding of NanoLogix stock represented by 4,556,174 shares of that stock; (b) NanoLogix has licensed to us the remaining 18 patents that protect the diagnostics test kit technology in exchange for a 6% royalty on the gross sales of the products based on the licensed technology or escalating minimum payments starting at $20,000 annually; (c) we issued to NanoLogix 1 million options of our restricted common stock at $.20 per share; and (d) we will allow NanoLogix to continue their use of these patents for development of their hydrogen technology and other technologies unrelated to medical diagnostic test kits.

On or about July 2009, we ceased paying the minimum royalties to Nanologix for the licensed patents and have allowed full rights to those patents to revert back to Nanologix.

We own 11 issued U.S. patents covering technologies related to growing, detecting, identifying, defining antibiotic sensitivity and designing apparatus for the detection of 32 different paraffin-eating microorganisms that were assigned to us by Nanologix, Inc. These patents will be used by our wholly owned subsidiary, Designer Diagnostics, should it again become operational.

U.S. Patent No. 5,989,902, Method for determining the antimicrobial agent sensitivity of a nonparaffinophilic hydrophobic microorganism and an associated apparatus was granted in November 1999 with 3 claims. The patent describes a method for determining a sensitivity of a nonparaffinophilic hydrophobic microorganism to an antimicrobial agent. The method includes providing at least one receptacle containing an aqueous broth including a carbon source and introducing the nonparaffinophilic hydrophobic microorganism into the receptacle. The method further includes placing into the receptacle (i) a slide coated with a hydrophobic material and (ii) a predetermined quantity of the antimicrobial agent to be tested. By observing the nonparaffinophilic hydrophobic microorganism growth or lack thereof on the slide, it can be determined whether the predetermined quantity of the antimicrobial agent is effective in inhibiting growth of the nonparaffinophilic hydrophobic microorganism on the slide. An associated apparatus is also disclosed. This Patent expires on November 13, 2017.

U.S. Patent No. 5,981,210, Method for determining a presence or absence of a nonparaffinophilic hydrophobic microorganism in a body specimen by using a DNA extraction procedure and a novel DNA extraction procedure was granted in November 1999 with 17 claims. The method of the invention involves providing a first receptacle and a second receptacle. The first receptacle contains a sterile aqueous broth and the second receptacle contains an aqueous broth including a carbon source. The method then includes placing into the first receptacle a first support surface having a paraffin wax coating thereon and placing into the second receptacle a second support surface having a hydrophobic material coating thereon. A body specimen, such as sputum, is then introduced into each of the first and second receptacles. The presence of a nonparaffinophilic hydrophobic microorganism in the body specimen is determined by observing (i) a lack of microorganism growth on the paraffin coated material of the first support surface and (ii) a presence of microorganism growth on the hydrophobic material coating of the second support surface. The presence of the nonparaffinophilic hydrophobic microorganism can be further confirmed by performing a DNA extraction. An associated DNA extraction procedure is also provided. This Patent expires on November 13, 2017.

U.S. Patent No. 5,935,806, Method and apparatus for speciating and identifying MAI (Mycobacterium Avium Intracellulare) and testing the same for antibiotic sensitivity was granted in August 1999 with 3 claims. The patent describes a method of speciating and identifying MAI in a specimen comprises placing a paraffin coated slide in a receptacle containing a sterile aqueous solution inoculated with the specimen, analyzing the slide after exposure to the specimen to determine the presence or absence of atypical Mycobacteria, and after the analysis step, if atypical Mycobacteria are determined to be present, performing at least one speciation assay to ascertain if the atypical Mycobacteria are MAI. A related apparatus is also disclosed for speciating and identifying MAI in a specimen comprising a paraffin-wax coated slide, a tube having a sterile aqueous solution contained therein, the tube adapted to hold the slide, and at least one speciation assay means for performing an assay to determine the presence or absence of MAI in the specimen after the specimen is introduced into the tube holding the solution and the slide. An apparatus and method for determining the sensitivity of MAI to different antibiotics and dosages thereof is also provided. This Patent expired on October 24, 2009 for failure to timely pay maintenance fees.

U.S. Patent No. 5,882,920, Apparatus for determining the presence or absence of a paraffinophilic microorganism was granted in March 1999 with 4 claims. The patent describes a method of determining the presence of a paraffinophilic microorganism in a specimen taken from a patient. The method includes providing a receptacle containing an aqueous solution and adjusting the solution to mimic the in vivo clinical conditions of the patient. The method then further includes inoculating the solution with the specimen and then placing in the receptacle a paraffin coated slide to bait the paraffinophilic microorganism. The slide is then analyzed after exposure to the specimen to determine the presence or absence of the paraffinophilic microorganism. An associated apparatus is also disclosed. This Patent expired on November 9, 2015.

U.S. Patent No. 5,854,014, Apparatus for testing paraffinophilic microorganisms for antimicrobial sensitivity was granted in December 1998 with 2 claims. The patent describes an apparatus for determining the antimicrobial agent sensitivity of a paraffinophilic microorganism from a specimen obtained from a patient. The apparatus includes a receptacle containing an aqueous solution, an amount of antimicrobial agent to be tested and the specimen. The apparatus further consists of a paraffin coated slide placed into the receptacle. This Patent expired October 24, 2009 for failure to timely pay maintenance fees.

U.S. Patent No. 5,846,760, Method for determining a presence or absence of a nonparaffinophilic hydrophobic microorganism in a body specimen and an associated kit was granted in December 1998 with 15 claims. The method of the invention involves providing a first receptacle and a second receptacle. The first receptacle contains a sterile aqueous broth and the second receptacle contains an aqueous broth including a carbon source. The method then includes placing into the first receptacle a first support surface having a paraffin wax coating thereon and placing into the second receptacle a second support surface having a hydrophobic material coating thereon. A body specimen, such as sputum, is then introduced into each of the first and second receptacles. The presence of a nonparaffinophilic hydrophobic microorganism in the body specimen is determined by observing (i) a lack of microorganism growth on the paraffin coated material of the first support surface and (ii) a presence of microorganism growth on the hydrophobic material coating of the second support surface. An associated kit is also disclosed. This Patent expires on November 13, 2017.

U.S. Patent No. 5,776,722, Method of testing a body specimen taken from a patient for the presence or absence of a microorganism and a further associated method and associated apparatus was granted in July 1998 with 40 claims. The patent describes a method of testing a body specimen taken from a patient for the presence or absence of a microorganism. A transport/isolator assembly is provided which includes a receptacle and a baiting assembly including a baiting section having disposed thereon a coating material. A baiting liquid and the body specimen are then introduced into the receptacle. The method further comprises securing the baiting assembly to the receptacle so that at least a portion of the coated section is introduced into the baiting liquid. The transport/isolator assembly containing the baiting liquid and the body specimen are then transported to a laboratory for subsequent observation of the coated section for growth or lack thereof of the microorganism. A further method of processing the body specimen and an associated isolator/transport assembly kit as well as an associated isolator/transport assembly are also disclosed. This Patent expires on September 25, 2017.

U.S. Patent No. 5,569,592, Apparatus for testing MAI (Mycobacterium Avium Intracellulare) for antimicrobial agent sensitivity was granted in October 1996 with 3 claims. The patent describes an apparatus for determining the sensitivity of MAI to different antimicrobial agents and dosages thereof is provided. The apparatus comprises a plurality of test tubes adapted to contain an amount of an antimicrobial agent to be tested and MAI complex organisms to be assayed and a separate paraffin coated slide adapted for placement in each of the test tubes. The growth of the MAI complex organisms on the slide can be used to determine the concentration of the antimicrobial agent necessary to resist MAI complex organism growth on the slide. An associated method is also disclosed. This Patent expired on October 29, 2013.

U.S. Patent No. 5,472,877, Apparatus for determining the presence or absence of MAI (Mycobacterium Avium Intracellulare) was granted in December 1995 with 6 claims. The patent describes a method of speciating and identifying MAI in a specimen comprises placing a paraffin coated slide in a receptacle containing a sterile aqueous solution inoculated with the specimen, analyzing the slide after exposure to the specimen to determine the presence or absence of atypical Mycobacteria, and after the analysis step, if atypical Mycobacteria are determined to be present, performing at least one speciation assay to ascertain if the atypical Mycobacteria are MAI. A related apparatus is also disclosed for speciating and identifying MAI in a specimen comprising a paraffin-wax coated slide, a tube having a sterile aqueous solution contained therein, the tube adapted to hold the slide, and at least one speciation assay means for performing an assay to determine the presence or absence of MAI in the specimen after the specimen is introduced into the tube holding the solution and the slide. An apparatus and method for determining the sensitivity of MAI to different antibiotics and dosages thereof is also provided. This Patent expired on December 5, 2012.

U.S. Patent No. 5,316,918, Method and apparatus for testing MAI (Mycobacterium Avium Intracellulare) for antimicrobial agent sensitivity was granted in May 1994 with 7 claims. The patent describes an apparatus and method for determining the sensitivity of MAI to different antimicrobial agents and dosages thereof is provided. The apparatus comprises a plurality of test tubes adapted to contain an amount of an antimicrobial agent to be tested and MAI complex organisms to be assayed and a separate paraffin coated slide adapted for placement in each of the test tubes. The growth of the MAI complex organisms on the slide can be used to determine the concentration of the antimicrobial agent necessary to resist MAI complex organism growth on the slide. An associated method is also disclosed. This Patent expired on May 31, 2011.

U.S. Patent No. 5,153,119, Method for speciating and identifying MAI (Mycobacterium Avium Intracellulare) was granted in October 1992 with 15 claims. The patent describes a method of speciating and identifying MAI in a specimen comprises placing a paraffin coated slide in a receptacle containing a sterile aqueous solution inoculated with the specimen, analyzing the slide after exposure to the specimen to determine the presence or absence of atypical Mycobacteria, and after the analysis step, if atypical Mycobacteria are determined to be present, performing at least one speciation assay to ascertain if the atypical Mycobacteria are MAI. A related apparatus is also disclosed for speciating and identifying MAI in a specimen comprising a paraffin-wax coated slide, a tube having a sterile aqueous solution contained therein, the tube adapted to hold the slide, and at least one speciation assay means for performing an assay to determine the presence or absence of MAI in the specimen after the specimen is introduced into the tube holding the solution and the slide. An apparatus and method for determining the sensitivity of MAI to different antibiotics and dosages thereof is also provided. This Patent expired on October 24, 2009.

Our business is dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use proprietary information. We will rely on patent and trade secret law and nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements to protect such proprietary information. We will file patent applications for our proprietary methods and devices for patient treatments. Our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes are subject to significant risks, including that others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information and techniques, gain access to our proprietary information, our proprietary information being improperly disclosed, or that we may ineffectively protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets or other proprietary information.

Employees 

We employ a total of 4 employees, consisting of: (a) our Chief Executive Officer (b) Our Director of Marketing (c) our Interim President of ReceptoPharm, and (d) our Warehouse Manager. We utilize outside consultants, legal and accounting personnel as necessary and as funding permits.

Report to Security Holders 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, we file annual, quarterly and other reports and information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and obtain a copy of these reports in Washington, D.C. Our filings are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and the Internet world wide website maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.

