 Item 1: &#32;&#32; Business 

OVERVIEW 

Our Vision and Mission 

Molina Healthcare, Inc. offers cost-effective Medicaid-related solutions to meet the health care needs of low-income families and individuals, and to assist government agencies in their administration of the Medicaid program.We envision a future where everyone receives quality health care, and our mission is to provide quality health care to people receiving government assistance. To execute on our vision and mission, we dedicate ourselves to the following core values: 

&#8226; 

Caring - We care about those we serve and advocate on their behalf. 

&#8226; 

Enthusiasm - We enthusiastically address problems and seek creative solutions. 

&#8226; 

Respect - We respect each other and value ethical business practices. 

&#8226; 

Focus - We focus on our mission. 

&#8226; 

Thrift - We are careful with scarce resources. 

&#8226; 

Accountability - We are personally accountable for our actions and collaborate to get results. 

&#8226; 

Feedback - We strive to improve the organization and achieve meaningful change through feedback and coaching. 

Our Strategy 

The primary objectives of our strategy over the past 35 years have been to grow and diversify our revenue; sustain our mission by being profitable; and to always remain focused on providing access to high quality healthcare for our members. 

According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), by late 2015 nearly 18 million people nationally gained health insurance by signing up for Medicaid or the Health Insurance Marketplace (Marketplace), since several of the Affordable Care Act's coverage provisions took effect. The uninsured rate has fallen from a high of 18% to nearly 11%; the lowest uninsured rate in 50 years according to an ongoing study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. We have participated in this trend by enrolling approximately 1.6 million &#32;members since January 2014, including more than a half million Medicaid expansion members and 205,000 &#32;low-income Marketplace members. In total, as of December 31, 2015 , our health plans served over 3.5 million &#32;members eligible for Medicaid, Medicare, and other government-sponsored health care programs for low-income families and individuals. 

Beyond growing the number of members we serve, we believe our most important contribution lies in our commitment to provide access to quality health care for our members. To that end, we have set about expanding and deepening the care capabilities that we provide, focusing on quality outcomes, care integration, and measurable results. For example, the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) has accredited nine of our 12 Medicaid managed care plans. Our newer Illinois and South Carolina health plans are preparing for NCQA accreditation review in 2016. Our Puerto Rico health plan, which began serving members in 2015, will seek NCQA accreditation as soon as it is eligible to do so. We believe that these objective measures of the quality of the services we provide are increasingly important to state Medicaid agencies. 

In addition, as states continue to seek cost-effective strategies to manage the care of individuals with more complex healthcare and behavioral needs, we believe that the movement toward the integration of behavioral health and medical care will continue. 

Our growth strategy has four components: 

&#8226; 

Growth and retention in our existing markets; 

&#8226; 

Expansion into new geographies; 

&#8226; 

Transitioning members and benefits from fee for service to managed care; and 

&#8226; 

Developing and acquiring new products and capabilities. 

Significant accomplishments in support of our strategic growth initiatives during 2015 &#32;and early 2016 included: 

&#8226; 

Growth and retention in our existing markets. 

&#9702; 

We retained and grew existing business with our re-procurement wins in Michigan and Washington. Our new contract in Michigan expanded our service area across all of the Lower Peninsula, spanning an additional 18 counties. The Washington win, along with the acquisition described below, strengthens our position in the southwestern region of that state. 

&#9702; 

Our Florida and Michigan health plans acquired Medicaid contracts which added approximately 192,000 &#32;new members in 2015. 

&#9702; 

We have announced and/or closed on Medicaid contract acquisitions in Illinois, Michigan and Washington that we expect to add approximately 257,000 &#32;new members in the first quarter of 2016. 

&#9702; 

Our Marketplace enrollment grew from approximately 15,000 members in 2014, to over 200,000 members as of December 31, 2015. 

&#9702; 

Molina Medicaid Solutions entered into a 10-year contract with the state of New Jersey to design and operate that state's new Medicaid management information system (MMIS). 

&#8226; 

Expansion into new geographies. Our Puerto Rico health plan began serving its first members in April 2015. As of December 31, 2015 , our Puerto Rico plan enrollment amounted to approximately 348,000 &#32;members. 

&#8226; 

Transitioning members and benefits from fee for service to managed care. In 2015, we saw strong growth in our Medicare-Medicaid Plan (MMP) and Aged, Blind or Disabled (ABD) programs. While smaller programs in total membership, they translate to strong revenue growth because these members bring much higher premiums when 

compared with our other members, including those in the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, Medicaid expansion and Marketplace programs. 

&#8226; 

Developing and acquiring new products and capabilities . We acquired Pathways Health and Community Support LLC (Pathways), formerly known as Providence Human Services, LLC, a division of The Providence Service Corporation. Pathways is one of the largest national providers of accessible, outcome-based behavioral/mental health and social services with operations in 23 states and the District of Columbia. We believe this acquisition will complement our Health Plans segment services with behavioral health and other services that focus on social determinants of health, as we increasingly arrange for healthcare services for members with complex needs. 

Finally, to support our future growth initiatives, in 2015 we raised approximately $ 1.1 billion &#32;under debt and equity financing transactions, and supplemented our financing resources under a new unsecured $250 million &#32;revolving credit facility. 

Our Strengths 

From a strategic perspective, we believe our organizational structure allows us to participate in an expanding sector of the economy and continue our mission to provide quality health care to people receiving government assistance. Our approach to our business is based on the following strengths: 

Flexible Health Services Portfolio . We offer a comprehensive suite of Medicaid services, ranging from quality care, disease management, cost management, and direct delivery of health care services, to state-level Medicaid management information systems (MMIS) administration through our Molina Medicaid Solutions segment. Our health plan care delivery systems are diverse and readily adaptable to different markets and changing conditions. We arrange health care services with a variety of providers, including independent physicians and medical groups, hospitals, ancillary providers, and our own clinics. Our systems support multiple types of contract models. Our provider networks are well-suited, based on medical specialty, member proximity, and cultural sensitivity, to provide services to our members. We believe that our Molina Medicaid Solutions platform, which is based on commercial off-the-shelf technology, has the flexibility to meet a wide variety of state Medicaid administrative needs in a timely and cost-effective manner. 

Focus on People Receiving Government Assistance. Our experience over more than 35 years has allowed us to develop strong relationships with the constituents we serve, establish significant expertise as a government contractor, and develop sophisticated disease management, care coordination and health education programs that address the particular health care needs of our members. We also benefit from a thorough understanding of the cultural and linguistic needs of Medicaid populations. 

Scalable Administrative Infrastructure. Our operations share common systems platforms, which allow for economies of scale and common experience in meeting the needs of state Medicaid programs. We have centralized and standardized various functions and practices to increase administrative efficiency. In addition, we have designed our administrative and operational infrastructure to be scalable for cost-effective expansion into new and existing markets. 

Consistent Medicaid National Brand. &#32;Since the founding of our company in 1980 to serve the Medicaid population in southern California through a small network of primary care clinics, we have increased our Health Plans membership to 3.5 million &#32;members as of December 31, 2015 , added Molina Medicaid Solutions, and introduced new capabilities with the acquisition of Pathways. 

Seasoned Management Team. Dr. C. David Molina founded our company in 1980 as a provider organization serving the Medicaid population in Southern California. Today, we remain a provider-focused company led by his son, Dr. J. Mario Molina, whose tenure with Molina is over 19 years. The rest of our named executive officers have been with Molina for periods ranging from 10 years to 20 years. We believe that this extensive experience allows senior management to take a longer-term view of our operations, while maintaining consistency. 

Unique Culture. &#32;We believe that we are unique culturally because of our employees' dedication to our core values and our mission. Many of our employees seek to work here&#8212;and continue to work here&#8212;because of our shared belief that we envision a future where everyone receives quality healthcare. 

OUR INDUSTRY 

Medicaid 

Medicaid was established in 1965 under the U.S. Social Security Act to provide health care and long-term care services and support to low-income Americans. Although jointly funded by federal and state governments, Medicaid is a state-operated and state-implemented program. Subject to federal laws and regulations, states have significant flexibility to structure their own programs in terms of eligibility, benefits, delivery of services, and provider payments. As a result, there are 56 separate Medicaid programs&#8212;one for each U.S. state, each U.S. territory, and the District of Columbia. 

The federal government guarantees matching funds to states for qualifying Medicaid expenditures based on each state&#8217;s federal medical assistance percentage (FMAP). A state&#8217;s FMAP is calculated annually and varies inversely with average personal income in the state. The average FMAP across all jurisdictions is currently about 59%, and ranges from a federally established FMAP floor of 50% to as high as 74%. 

The most common state-administered Medicaid program is the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program (TANF), which covers primarily low-income mothers and children. In states that have elected to participate, Medicaid expansion provides eligibility to nearly all low-income people under age 65 with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty line. Another common state-administered Medicaid program is for ABD Medicaid beneficiaries, which covers low-income persons with chronic physical disabilities or behavioral health impairments. ABD beneficiaries represent a growing portion of all Medicaid recipients, and typically use more services because of their critical health issues. Additionally, the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) is a joint federal and state matching program that provides health care coverage to children whose families earn too much to qualify for Medicaid coverage. States have the option of administering CHIP through their Medicaid programs. 

Every state Medicaid program must balance many potentially competing demands, including the need for quality care, adequate provider access, and cost-effectiveness. To improve quality and provide more uniform and cost-effective care, many states have implemented Medicaid managed care programs. These programs seek to improve access to coordinated health care services, including preventive care, and to control health care costs. Under Medicaid managed care programs, a health plan receives capitation payments from the state. The health plan, in turn, arranges for the provision of health care services by contracting with a network of medical providers. The health plan implements care management and care coordination programs that seek to improve both care access and care quality, while controlling costs more effectively. 

While many states have embraced Medicaid managed care programs, others continue to operate traditional fee-for-service programs to serve all or part of their Medicaid populations. Under fee-for-service Medicaid programs, health care services are made available to beneficiaries as they seek that care, without the benefit of a coordinated effort to maintain and improve their health. As a consequence, treatment is often postponed until medical conditions become more severe, leading to higher costs and more unfavorable outcomes. Additionally, providers paid on a fee-for-service basis are compensated based upon services they perform, rather than health outcomes, and therefore lack incentives to coordinate preventive care, monitor utilization, and control costs. 

Medicare 

Medicare is a federal program that provides eligible persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons with a variety of hospital, medical insurance, and prescription drug benefits. Medicare is funded by Congress, and administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in a Medicare Advantage plan, under which managed care plans contract with CMS to provide benefits that are comparable to original Medicare. Such benefits are provided in exchange for a fixed per-member per-month (PMPM) premium payment that varies based on the county in which a member resides, the demographics of the member, and the member&#8217;s health condition. 

Since 2006, Medicare beneficiaries have had the option of selecting a new prescription drug benefit from an existing Medicare Advantage plan. The drug benefit, available to beneficiaries for a monthly premium, is subject to certain cost sharing depending upon the specific benefit design of the selected plan. 

Medicaid Management Information Systems 

Because Medicaid is a state-administered program, every state must have mechanisms, policies, and procedures in place to perform a large number of crucial functions, including the determination of eligibility and the reimbursement of medical providers for services provided. This requirement exists regardless of whether a state has adopted a fee-for-service or a managed care delivery model. MMIS are used by states to support these administrative activities. Although a small number of states build and operate their own MMIS, a far more typical practice is for states to sub-contract the design, development, implementation, and operation of their MMIS to private parties. Through our Molina Medicaid Solutions segment, we actively participate in this market. 

Competition 

The Medicaid managed care industry is fragmented, and the competitive landscape is subject to ongoing changes as a result of health care reform, business consolidations and new strategic alliances. We compete with a large number of national, regional, and local Medicaid service providers, principally on the basis of size, location, quality of provider network, quality of service, and reputation. Our primary competitors in the Medicaid managed care industry include Centene Corporation, WellCare Health Plans, Inc., UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, Anthem, Inc., and Aetna Inc. Competition can vary considerably from state to state. Below is a general description of our principal competitors for state contracts, members, and providers: &#160; 

&#8226; 

Multi-Product Managed Care Organizations - National and regional managed care organizations that have Medicaid members in addition to numerous commercial health plan and Medicare members. 

&#8226; 

Medicaid HMOs - National and regional managed care organizations that focus principally on providing health care services to Medicaid beneficiaries, many of which operate in only one city or state. 

&#8226; 

Prepaid Health Plans - Health plans that provide less comprehensive services on an at-risk basis or that provide benefit packages on a non-risk basis. 

&#8226; 

Primary Care Case Management Programs - Programs established by the states through contracts with primary care providers to provide primary care services to Medicaid beneficiaries, as well as to provide limited oversight of other services. 

We will continue to face varying levels of competition. Health care reform proposals may cause organizations to enter or exit the market for government sponsored health programs. However, the licensing requirements and bidding and contracting procedures in some states may present partial barriers to entry into our industry. 

We compete for government contracts, renewals of those government contracts, members, and providers. State agencies consider many factors in awarding contracts to health plans. Among such factors are the health plan&#8217;s provider network, medical management, degree of member satisfaction, timeliness of claims payment, and financial resources. Potential members typically choose a health plan based on a specific provider being a part of the network, the quality of care and services available, accessibility of services, and reputation or name recognition of the health plan. We believe factors that providers consider in deciding whether to contract with a health plan include potential member volume, payment methods, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, and administrative service capabilities. 

Molina Medicaid Solutions competes with large MMIS vendors, such as HP Enterprise Services, ACS (owned by Xerox Corporation), Computer Services Corporation, and CNSI. 

BUSINESS OPERATIONS 

Our Structure 

We currently manage our operations through three reportable segments: the Health Plans segment, the Molina Medicaid Solutions segment, and Other, which includes our recent Pathways acquisition described above. We regularly evaluate the appropriateness of our reportable segments, particularly in light of organizational changes, acquisition activity and changing laws and regulations. Therefore, these reportable segments may change in the future. 

We derive our revenues primarily from health insurance premiums. Refer to Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2 , " Significant Accounting Policies ," and Note 20 , " Segment Information ," for revenue information by state health plan, and segment revenue, profit and total asset information, respectively. 

Health Plans . The Health Plans segment consists of operational health plans in 11 states and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and our direct delivery business. The health plans are operated by our respective wholly owned subsidiaries in those states, each of which is licensed as a health maintenance organization (HMO). Our direct delivery business consists primarily of the operation of primary care clinics in several states in which we operate health plans. Our Health Plans segment operates in a highly regulated environment, with stringent minimum capitalization requirements that limit the ability of our health plan subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. As of December 31, 2015, the components of our membership by program, are indicated in the following chart. 

&#32;&#32; 

Molina Medicaid Solutions. &#32;The Molina Medicaid Solutions segment provides design, development, implementation (DDI), and business process outsourcing (BPO) solutions to state governments for their Medicaid management information systems. MMIS is a core tool used to support the administration of state Medicaid and other health care entitlement programs. Molina Medicaid Solutions currently holds MMIS contracts with the states of Idaho, Louisiana, Maine, New Jersey, and West Virginia; the U.S. Virgin Islands; and a contract to provide pharmacy rebate administration services for the Florida Medicaid program. The Molina Medicaid Solutions segment supports state Medicaid agency administrative needs, reduces the variability in our earnings resulting from fluctuations in medical care costs, improves our operating profit margin percentages, and improves our cash flow by adding a business for which there are no restrictions on dividend payments. 

Other . Our Other segment includes other businesses, such as our Pathways behavioral health and social services provider, that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for a reportable segment as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as corporate amounts not allocated to other reportable segments. 

Our reliance on operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly. Additionally, our inability to continue to operate in any of the states in which we currently operate, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. 

Pricing 

Medicaid. Under our Medicaid contracts, state government agencies pay our health plans fixed PMPM rates that vary by state, line of business and demographics; and we arrange, pay for and manage health care services provided to Medicaid beneficiaries. Therefore, our health plans are at risk for the medical costs associated with their members&#8217; health care. The rates we receive are subject to change by each state and, in some instances, provide for adjustments for health risk factors. CMS requires these rates to be actuarially sound. Payments to us under each of our Medicaid contracts are subject to the annual appropriation process in the applicable state. 

Medicare. Under Medicare Advantage, managed care plans contract with CMS to provide benefits in exchange for a fixed PMPM premium payment that varies based on the county in which a member resides, and adjusted for demographic and health risk factors. CMS also considers inflation, changes in utilization patterns and average per capita fee-for-service Medicare costs in the calculation of the fixed PMPM premium payment. 

Amounts payable to us under the Medicare Advantage contracts are subject to annual revision by CMS, and we elect to participate in each Medicare service area or region on an annual basis. Medicare Advantage premiums paid to us are subject to federal government reviews and audits which can result, and have resulted, in retroactive and prospective premium adjustments. Compared with our Medicaid plans, Medicare Advantage contracts generate higher average PMPM revenues and health care costs. 

Marketplace . For our Marketplace plans, we develop premium rates during early spring each year for policies effective January 1st of the following year. We develop our premium rates based on our estimates of projected member utilization, medical unit costs, member risk acuity, and administrative costs, with the intent of realizing a target pretax percentage profit margin. Our 

actuaries certify the actuarial soundness of Marketplace premiums in the rate filings submitted to the various state and federal authorities for approval. 

Medical Management 

Our experience in medical management extends back to our roots as a provider organization. Primary care physicians are the focal point of the delivery of health care to our members, providing routine and preventive care, coordinating referrals to specialists, and assessing the need for hospital care. This model has proved to be an effective method for coordinating medical care for our members. The underlying challenge we face is to coordinate health care so that our members receive timely and appropriate care from the right provider at the appropriate cost. In support of this goal, and to ensure medical management consistency among our various state health plans, we continuously refine and upgrade our medical management efforts at both the corporate and subsidiary levels. 

We seek to ensure quality care for our members on a cost-effective basis through the use of certain key medical management and cost control tools. These tools include utilization management, case and health management, and provider network and contract management. 

Utilization Management. We continuously review utilization patterns with the intent to optimize quality of care and ensure that only appropriate services are rendered in the most cost-effective manner. Utilization management, along with our other tools of medical management and cost control, is supported by a centralized corporate medical informatics function which utilizes third-party software and data warehousing tools to convert data into actionable information. We use predictive modeling that supports a proactive case and health management approach both for us and our affiliated physicians. 

Case and Health Management. We seek to encourage quality, cost-effective care through a variety of case and health management programs, including disease management programs, educational programs, and pharmacy management programs such as the following: 

&#8226; 

Disease Management Programs. We develop specialized disease management programs that address the particular health care needs of our members. " motherhood matters! sm" &#32;is a comprehensive program designed to improve pregnancy outcomes and enhance member satisfaction. " breathe with ease!" &#32;is a multi-disciplinary disease management program that provides health education resources and case management services to assist physicians caring for asthmatic members between the ages of three and 15. " Healthy Living with Diabetes" &#32;is a diabetes disease management program. " Heart Healthy Living" &#32;is a cardiovascular disease management program for members who have suffered from congestive heart failure, angina, heart attack, or high blood pressure. 

&#8226; 

Educational Programs. Educational programs are an important aspect of our approach to health care delivery. These programs are designed to increase awareness of various diseases, conditions, and methods of prevention in a manner that supports our providers while meeting the unique needs of our members. For example, we provide our members with information to guide them through various episodes of care. This information, which is available in several languages, is designed to educate members on the use of primary care physicians, emergency rooms, and nurse call centers. 

&#8226; 

Pharmacy Management Programs. Our pharmacy management programs focus on physician education regarding appropriate medication utilization and encouraging the use of generic medications. Our pharmacists and medical directors work with our pharmacy benefits manager to maintain a formulary that promotes both improved patient care and generic drug use. We employ full-time pharmacists and pharmacy technicians who work with physicians to educate them on the uses of specific drugs, the implementation of best practices, and the importance of cost-effective care. 

Provider Network and Contract Management. The quality, depth, and scope of our provider network are essential if we are to ensure quality, cost-effective care for our members. In partnering with quality, cost-effective providers, we utilize clinical and financial information derived by our medical informatics function, as well as the experience we have gained in serving Medicaid members, to gain insight into the needs of both our members and our providers. As we grow in size, we seek to strengthen our ties with high-quality, cost-effective providers by offering them greater patient volume. 

Provider Networks 

We arrange health care services for our members through contracts with providers that include independent physicians and groups, hospitals, ancillary providers, and our own clinics. Our network of providers includes primary care physicians, specialists and hospitals. Our strategy is to contract with providers in those geographic areas and medical specialties necessary to meet the needs of our members. We also strive to ensure that our providers have the appropriate cultural and linguistic experience and skills. 

Physicians. We contract with both primary care physicians and specialists, many of whom are organized into medical groups or independent practice associations (IPAs). Primary care physicians provide office-based primary care services. Primary care 

physicians may be paid under capitation or fee-for-service contracts and may receive additional compensation by providing certain preventive services. Our specialists care for patients for a specific episode or condition, usually upon referral from a primary care physician, and are usually compensated on a fee-for-service basis. When we contract with groups of physicians on a capitated basis, we monitor their solvency. 

Hospitals. We generally contract with hospitals that have significant experience dealing with the medical needs of the Medicaid population. We reimburse hospitals under a variety of payment methods, including fee-for-service, per diems, diagnostic-related groups (DRGs) capitation, and case rates. 

Direct Delivery. The clinics we operate are located in neighborhoods where our members live, and provide us a first-hand opportunity to understand the special needs of our members. The clinics we operate assist us in developing and implementing community education, disease management, and other programs. Direct clinic management experience also enables us to better understand the needs of our contracted providers. 

Reinsurance 

Our health plans currently have reinsurance agreements with an unaffiliated insurer to cover certain claims. We enter into these contracts to reduce the risk of catastrophic losses which in turn reduce our capital and surplus requirements. We frequently evaluate reinsurance opportunities and review our reinsurance and risk management strategies on a regular basis. 

Management Information Systems 

All of our health plan information technology systems operate on a single platform. This approach avoids the costs associated with maintaining multiple systems, improves productivity, and enables medical directors to compare costs, identify trends, and exchange best practices among our plans. Our single platform also facilitates our compliance with current and future regulatory requirements. 

The software we use is based on client-server technology and is scalable. We believe the software is flexible, easy to use, and allows us to accommodate anticipated enrollment growth and new contracts. The open architecture of the system gives us the ability to transfer data from other systems without the need to write a significant amount of computer code, thereby facilitating the integration of new plans and acquisitions. 

We have designed our corporate website with a focus on ease of use and visual appeal. Our website has a secure ePortal which allows providers, members, and trading partners to access individualized data. The ePortal allows the following self-services: 

&#8226; 

Provider Self Services - Providers have the ability to access information regarding their members and claims. Key functionalities include "Check Member Eligibility," "View Claim," and "View/Submit Authorizations." 

&#8226; 

Member Self Services &#32; - Members can access information regarding their personal data, and can perform the following key functionalities: "View Benefits," "Request New ID Card," "Print Temporary ID Card," and "Request Change of Address/PCP." 

&#8226; 

File Exchange Services - Various trading partners, such as service partners, providers, vendors, management companies, and individual IPAs, are able to exchange data files (such as those that may be required by federal health care privacy regulations, or any other proprietary format) with us using the file exchange functionality. 

Best Practices. We continuously seek to promote best practices. Our approach to quality is broad, encompassing traditional medical management and the improvement of our internal operations. We have staff assigned full-time to the development and implementation of a uniform, efficient, and quality-based medical care delivery model for our health plans. These employees coordinate and implement company-wide programs and strategic initiatives such as preparation of the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS), and accreditation by the NCQA. We use measures established by the NCQA in credentialing the physicians in our network. We routinely use peer review to assess the quality of care rendered by providers. 

Claims Processing. All of our health plans operate on a single managed care platform for claims processing (the QNXT system). 

Centralized Management Services. We provide certain centralized medical and administrative services to our health plans pursuant to administrative services agreements, including medical affairs and quality management, health education, credentialing, management, financial, legal, information systems, and human resources services. Fees for such services are based on the fair market value of services rendered. Payment is subordinated to the health plan&#8217;s ability to comply with minimum capital and other restrictive financial requirements of the states in which they operate. 

Compliance. Our health plans have established high standards of ethical conduct. Our compliance programs are modeled after the compliance guidance statements published by the Office of the Inspector General of the HHS. Our uniform approach to compliance makes it easier for our health plans to share information and practices and reduces the potential for compliance errors and any associated liability. 

Disaster Recovery. We have established a disaster recovery and business resumption plan, with back-up operating sites, to be deployed in the case of a major disruptive event. 

CONTRACTING AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE 

Government Contracts 

Medicaid. In all the states in which we operate health plans, we enter into a contract with the state&#8217;s Medicaid agency to offer managed care benefits to Medicaid-eligible individuals. Some states award contracts to any applicant demonstrating that it meets the state&#8217;s requirements, while other states engage in a competitive bidding process. In all cases, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the state Medicaid program that we are able to meet the state&#8217;s operational and financial requirements. These requirements are in addition to those required for a license and are targeted to the specific needs of the Medicaid population; for example: 

&#8226; 

We must measure provider access and availability in terms of the time needed to reach the doctor&#8217;s office using public transportation; 

&#8226; 

Our quality improvement programs must emphasize member education and outreach and include measures designed to promote utilization of preventive services; 

&#8226; 

We must have linkages with schools, city or county health departments, and other community-based providers of health care, to demonstrate our ability to coordinate all of the sources from which our members may receive care; 

&#8226; 

We must be able to meet the needs of the disabled and others with special needs; 

&#8226; 

Our providers and member service representatives must be able to communicate with members who do not speak English or who are deaf; and 

&#8226; 

Our member handbook, newsletters, and other communications must be written at the prescribed reading level, and must be available in languages other than English. 

To operate a health plan in a given state, we must apply for and obtain a certificate of authority or license from that state. We are regulated by the state agency with responsibility for the oversight of HMOs which, in most cases, is the state department of insurance. In California, however, the agency with responsibility for the oversight of HMOs is the Department of Managed Health Care. Licensing requirements are the same for us as they are for health plans serving commercial or Medicare members. For example, we must demonstrate that: 

&#8226; 

Our provider network is adequate; 

&#8226; 

Our quality and utilization management processes comply with state requirements; 

&#8226; 

We have adequate procedures in place for responding to member and provider complaints and grievances; 

&#8226; 

We can meet requirements for the timely processing of provider claims; 

&#8226; 

We can collect and analyze the information needed to manage our quality improvement activities; 

&#8226; 

We have the financial resources necessary to pay our anticipated medical care expenses and the infrastructure needed to account for our costs; 

&#8226; 

We have the systems required to process enrollment information, to report on care and services provided, and to process claims for payment in a timely fashion; and 

&#8226; 

We have the financial resources needed to protect the state, our providers, and our members against the insolvency of one of our health plans. 

Our state contracts determine the type and scope of health care services that we arrange for our members. Generally, our contracts require us to arrange for preventive care, office visits, inpatient and outpatient hospital and medical services, and pharmacy benefits. The contracts also detail the requirements for operating in the Medicaid sector, including provisions relating to: eligibility; enrollment and dis-enrollment processes; covered benefits; eligible providers; subcontractors; record-keeping and record retention; periodic financial and informational reporting; quality assurance; marketing; financial standards; timeliness of claims payments; health education, wellness and prevention programs; safeguarding of member information; fraud and abuse detection and reporting; grievance procedures; and organization and administrative systems. A health plan&#8217;s compliance with these requirements is subject to monitoring by state regulators. A health plan is subject to periodic comprehensive quality assurance evaluation by a third-party reviewing organization and generally by the insurance department of the jurisdiction that licenses the health plan. 

The contractual relationship with the state is generally for a period of three to four years and is renewable on an annual or biennial basis at the discretion of the state. In general, either the state Medicaid agency or the health plan may terminate the state contract with or without cause upon 30 days to nine months&#8217; prior written notice. 

Most of these contracts contain renewal options that are exercisable by the state. Our health plan subsidiaries have generally been successful in obtaining the renewal of their contracts in each state prior to the actual expiration of their contracts. Our state contracts are generally at greatest risk of loss when a state issues a new request for proposals (RFP), subject to competitive bidding by other health plans. If one of our health plans is not a successful responsive bidder to a state RFP, its contract may be subject to non-renewal. For instance, in early 2012 our Missouri health plan was notified that it was not awarded a new contract under that state&#8217;s RFP, and therefore its contract expired in that year. 

Medicare. Under annually renewable contracts with CMS, our state health plans offer Medicare Advantage special needs plans which include a mandatory Part D prescription drug benefit. Molina Medicare Options Plus, our trade name for these plans, serves beneficiaries who are dually eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid, such as low-income seniors and people with disabilities. We believe offering these Medicare plans is consistent with our historical mission of serving low-income and medically under-served families and individuals. We employ sales personnel, and engage independent brokers, agents and consultants to enroll new Molina Medicare Options Plus members. None of our health plans operates a Medicare Advantage private fee-for-service plan. 

Federal regulations place prohibitions and limitations on certain sales and marketing activities of Medicare Advantage plans. Among other things, Medicare Advantage plans are not permitted to make unsolicited outbound calls to potential members or engage in other forms of unsolicited contact, establish appointments without documented consent from potential members, or conduct sales events in certain provider-based settings. Additionally, there are certain restrictions on agent and broker compensation. 

Molina Medicaid Solutions. We continually monitor the status of various states' legacy MMIS capabilities and contracts to determine whether Molina Medicaid Solutions&#8217; value proposition and core strengths will address a state&#8217;s MMIS goals. Once an RFP with a Medicaid agency is won, our Molina Medicaid Solutions contracts may extend over a number of years, particularly in circumstances where we deliver extensive and complex DDI services, such as the initial design, development and implementation of a complete MMIS. For example, the initial term of our most recently implemented Molina Medicaid Solutions contract in New Jersey is 10 years in total, consisting of 2.5 years allocated for the delivery of DDI services, followed by 7.5 years for the performance of BPO services. In most of these engagements option years are offered which span 2-3 years. The terms of some of our other established Molina Medicaid Solutions contracts&#8212;which primarily involve the delivery of BPO services with only minimal DDI activity (consisting of system enhancements)&#8212;are shorter in duration than our more recent contracts. 

The federal government typically reimburses the states for 90% of the costs incurred in the design, development, and implementation of an MMIS and for 75% of the costs incurred in operating a certified MMIS. Federal certification increases the share of the claims processing costs the federal government will pay for monthly operations. With an uncertified system, the federal government contributes approximately 50% of claims processing costs, with the state paying the other half. With a certified system, the federal government pays 75% of costs, reducing the state&#8217;s share. 

Other. &#32;Substantially all of Pathways' revenue is derived from contracts with state or local government agencies and government intermediaries, the majority of which are negotiated fee-for-service arrangements. A significant number of these contracts allow the payer to terminate the contract immediately for cause, such as for our failure to meet our contract obligations. Additionally, these contracts typically permit the payer to terminate the contract at any time prior to its stated expiration date without cause, at will and without penalty to the payer, either upon the expiration of a short notice period, typically 30 days, or immediately, in the event federal or state appropriations supporting the programs serviced by the contract are reduced or eliminated. 

Regulatory Compliance 

Our health plans are highly regulated by both state and federal government agencies. Regulation of managed care products and health care services varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and changes in applicable laws and rules occur frequently. Regulatory agencies generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. Such agencies have become increasingly active in recent years in their review and scrutiny of health insurers and managed care organizations, including those operating in the Medicaid and Medicare programs. 

States&#8217; Risk-Based Capital Requirements. Our health plans are required to file quarterly and annual reports of their operating results with the appropriate state regulatory agencies. These reports are accessible for public viewing. Each health plan undergoes periodic examinations and reviews by the state in which it operates. The health plans generally must obtain approval from the state before declaring dividends in excess of certain thresholds. Each health plan must maintain its net worth at an amount determined by statute or regulation. The minimum statutory net worth requirements differ by state, and are generally based on statutory minimum risk-based capital (RBC) requirements. The RBC requirements are based on guidelines established 

by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and are administered by the states. All of our state health plans are subject to RBC requirements, except California and Florida. Any acquisition of another plan&#8217;s members or its state contracts must also be approved by the state, and our ability to invest in certain financial securities may be prescribed by statute. For further information regarding RBC requirements, refer to Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in Note 19 , " Commitments and Contingencies ." 

In addition, we are also regulated by each state&#8217;s department of health services or the equivalent agency charged with oversight of Medicaid and CHIP. These agencies typically require demonstration of the same capabilities mentioned above and perform periodic audits of performance, usually annually. 

HIPAA. In 1996, Congress enacted the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). All health plans are subject to HIPAA, including ours. HIPAA generally requires health plans to: 

&#8226; 

Establish the capability to receive and transmit electronically certain administrative health care transactions, like claims payments, in a standardized format; 

&#8226; 

Afford privacy to patient health information; and 

&#8226; 

Protect the privacy of patient health information through physical and electronic security measures. 

Health care reform created additional tools for fraud prevention, including increased oversight of providers and suppliers participating or enrolling in Medicaid, CHIP, and Medicare. Those enhancements included mandatory licensure for all providers, and site visits, fingerprinting, and criminal background checks for higher risk providers. 

The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act), a part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, modified certain provisions of HIPAA by, among other things, extending the privacy and security provisions to business associates, mandating new regulations around electronic medical records, expanding enforcement mechanisms, allowing the state Attorneys General to bring enforcement actions, and increasing penalties for violations. As required by ARRA, the Secretary of HHS has promulgated regulations implementing various provisions of the HITECH Act. The Final Omnibus Rule promulgated by HHS in January 2013, included the Final Breach Notification Rule as well as provisions that apply the HIPAA regulatory scheme to business associates. We anticipate that HHS will promulgate additional rules under the HITECH Act to implement provisions of the statute which were not addressed in the Final Omnibus Rule. The various requirements of the HITECH Act and the Final Omnibus Rule have different compliance dates, and in some cases, the applicable compliance date may depend on the publication of additional rules or guidance by HHS. With respect to those requirements whose compliance dates have passed, we believe that we are in compliance with such provisions. With respect to additional requirements that may be issued in the future by HHS, it is our intention to implement any such new requirements on or before the applicable compliance dates. 

Fraud and Abuse Laws. Our operations are subject to various state and federal health care laws commonly referred to as "fraud and abuse" laws. Fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing for unnecessary medical services, improper marketing, and violations of patient privacy rights. These fraud and abuse laws include the federal False Claims Act which prohibits the knowing filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. Many states have false claim act statutes that closely resemble the federal False Claims Act. If an entity is determined to have violated the federal False Claims Act, it must pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties up to fifty thousand dollars for each separate false claim. Suits filed under the Federal False Claims Act, known as " qui tam " actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals (known as "relators" or, more commonly, as "whistleblowers") may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Qui tam &#32;actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the Medicaid, Medicare or other state or Federal health care programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. In addition, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA) encourages states to enact state-versions of the federal False Claims Act that establish liability to the state for false and fraudulent Medicaid claims and that provide for, among other things, claims to be filed by qui tam &#32;relators. 

Companies involved in public health care programs such as Medicaid are often the subject of fraud and abuse investigations. The regulations and contractual requirements applicable to participants in these public sector programs are complex and subject to change. Violations of certain fraud and abuse laws applicable to us could result in civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in Medicaid, Medicare, other federal health care programs and federally funded state health programs. 

Federal and state governments have made investigating and prosecuting health care fraud and abuse a priority. Although we believe that our compliance efforts are adequate, we will continue to devote significant resources to support our compliance efforts. 

Federal and State Self-Referral Prohibitions. We may be subject to federal and state statutes banning payments for referrals of patients and referrals by physicians to healthcare providers with whom the physicians have a financial relationship. Section 1877 of the Social Security Act, also known as the "Stark Law," prohibits physicians from making a "referral" for "designated health services" for Medicare (and in many cases Medicaid) patients from entities or facilities in which such physicians directly or indirectly hold a "financial relationship." A financial relationship can take the form of a direct or indirect ownership, investment or compensation arrangement. A referral includes the request by a physician for, or ordering of, or the certifying or re-certifying the need for, any designated health services. 

Certain services that we provide may be identified as "designated health services" for purposes of the Stark Law. We cannot provide assurance that future regulatory changes will not result in other services we provide becoming subject to the Stark Law&#8217;s ownership, investment or compensation prohibitions in the future. 

Many states, including some states where we do business, have adopted similar or broader prohibitions against payments that are intended to induce referrals of clients. Moreover, many states where we operate have laws similar to the Stark Law prohibiting physician self-referrals. We contract with a significant number of human services providers and practitioners, including therapists, physicians and psychiatrists, and arrange for these individuals or entities to provide services to our clients. While we believe that these contracts are in compliance with the Stark Law, no assurance can be made that such contracts will not be considered in violation of the Stark Law. 

For-profit ownership. Certain of the agencies for which we provide services restrict our ability to contract directly as a for-profit organization. Instead, these agencies contract directly with a not-for-profit organization and in certain cases we negotiate to provide administrative and management services to the not-for-profit providers. The extent to which other agencies impose such requirements may affect our ability to continue to provide the full range of services that we provide or limit the organizations with which we can contract directly to provide services. 

Corporate practice of medicine and fee splitting. Some states in which we operate prohibit general business entities, such as us, from "practicing medicine," which definition varies from state to state and can include employing physicians, professional therapists and other mental health professionals, as well as engaging in fee-splitting arrangements with these health care providers. Among other things, we currently contract with professional therapists to provide intensive home based counseling and with nurse practitioners to perform comprehensive health assessments. We believe that we have structured our operations appropriately, however, we could be alleged or found to be in violation of some or all of these laws. If a state determines that some portion of our business violates these laws, it may seek to have us discontinue those portions or subject us to penalties, fines, certain license requirements or other measures. Any determination that we have acted improperly in this regard may result in liability to us. In addition, agreements between the corporation and the professional may be considered void and unenforceable. 

Professional licensure and other requirements. Many of our employees are subject to federal and state laws and regulations governing the ethics and practice of their professions. In addition, professionals who are eligible to participate in Medicare and Medicaid as individual providers must not have been excluded from participation in government programs at any time. Our ability to provide services depends upon the ability of our personnel to meet individual licensure and other requirements. 

OTHER INFORMATION 

Intellectual Property 

We have registered and maintain various service marks, trademarks and trade names that we use in our businesses, including marks and names incorporating the "Molina" or "Molina Healthcare" phrase, and from time to time we apply for additional registrations of such marks. We utilize these and other marks and names in connection with the marketing and identification of products and services. We believe such marks and names are valuable and material to our marketing efforts. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 21,000 employees. Our employee base is multicultural and reflects the diverse membership we serve. We believe we have good relations with our employees. None of our employees is represented by a union. 

Available Information 

Molina Healthcare, Inc. is a C corporation under Delaware law incorporated in 2002. Our principal executive offices are located at 200 Oceangate, Suite 100, Long Beach, California 90802, and our telephone number is (562) 435-3666. &#32; 

You can access our website at www.molinahealthcare.com &#32;to learn more about our Company. &#32;From that site, you can download and print copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, along with amendments to those reports. You can also download our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors 

committee charters, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We make periodic reports and amendments available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the SEC. We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request a copy of any of these documents, please submit your request to: Molina Healthcare, Inc., 200 Oceangate, Suite 100, Long Beach, California 90802, Attn: Investor Relations. Information on or linked to our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other SEC filings. &#32; 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years: 

Name 

Age 

Position 

J. Mario Molina, M.D. 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

John C. Molina, J.D. 

Chief Financial Officer 

Terry P. Bayer 

Chief Operating Officer 

Joseph W. White 

Chief Accounting Officer 

Jeff D. Barlow 

Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary 

Dr. Molina &#32;has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since succeeding his father and company founder, Dr. C. David Molina, in 1996. He has also served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1996. Dr. Molina is the brother of John C. Molina. 

Mr. Molina &#32;has served as Chief Financial Officer since 1995. He also has served as a member of the Board of Directors since 1994. Mr. Molina is the brother of Dr. J. Mario Molina. 

Ms. Bayer &#32;has served as Chief Operating Officer since 2005. 

Mr. White &#32;has served as Chief Accounting Officer since 2007. 

Mr. Barlow &#32;has served as Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary since 2010. 

