 Item 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Celldex Therapeutics, Inc., which we refer to as "Celldex," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company," is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of several immunotherapy technologies for the treatment of cancer and other difficult-to-treat diseases. Our drug candidates are derived from a broad set of complementary technologies which have the ability to utilize the human immune system and enable the creation of therapeutic agents. We are using these technologies to develop targeted immunotherapeutics comprised of protein-based molecules such as vaccines, antibodies and antibody-drug conjugates that are used to treat specific types of cancer or other diseases. 

Our latest stage drug candidate, Rintega (also referred to as rindopepimut and CDX-110) is a therapeutic vaccine in clinical studies for the treatment of glioblastoma patients that express a specific cancer marker known as EGFRvIII. In February 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, granted Rintega Breakthrough Therapy Designation for the treatment of adult patients with EGFRvIII-positive glioblastoma. We completed enrollment in December 2014 in ACT IV, a pivotal Phase 3 study in front-line glioblastoma. ACT IV completed its first interim analysis at 50% of events (deaths) in June 2015, and an independent Data Safety and Monitoring Board recommended that the study continue as planned. The required number of events to perform the second interim analysis of ACT IV were reached in late 2015 and the analysis is expected to occur in March 2016. Final data from ACT IV are expected by the end of 2016, although our expectations regarding the timing for the final data read out may change based on event rates.We have also completed a Phase 2 study in patients with recurrent EGFRvIII-positive glioblastoma. Updated results from this randomized study comparing Rintega added to the standard of care, or SOC, compared to SOC alone were presented in November 2015. A statistically significant overall survival benefit and the emergence of a long-term survival benefit were observed. The primary endpoint of the study, progression-free survival at six months, or PFS6, was met. 

Glembatumumab vedotin (also referred to as CDX-011) is a targeted antibody-drug conjugate in a randomized, Phase 2b study for the treatment of triple negative breast cancer and a Phase 2 study for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. Varlilumab (also referred to as CDX-1127) is an immune modulating antibody that is designed to enhance a patient's immune response against their cancer. We established proof of concept in a Phase 1 study with varlilumab, which has allowed several combination studies to begin in various indications. We also have a number of earlier stage drug candidates in clinical development, including CDX-1401, a targeted immunotherapeutic aimed at antigen presenting cells, or APC, for cancer indications and CDX-301, an immune cell mobilizing agent and dendritic cell growth factor. Our drug candidates address market opportunities for which we believe current therapies are inadequate or non-existent. 

We are building a fully integrated, commercial-stage biopharmaceutical company that develops important therapies for patients with unmet medical needs. Our program assets provide us with the strategic options to either retain full economic rights to our innovative therapies or seek favorable economic terms through advantageous commercial partnerships. This approach allows us to maximize the overall value of our technology and product portfolio while best ensuring the expeditious development of each individual product. 

The following table includes the programs that we currently believe are significant to our business: 

Product (generic) 

&#160; Indication/Field &#160; Partner &#160; Status Rintega &#160; Front-line glioblastoma &#160; &#151; &#160; Phase 3 Glembatumumab vedotin &#160; Metastatic breast cancer &#160; &#151; &#160; Phase 2b Rintega &#160; Recurrent glioblastoma &#160; &#151; &#160; Phase 2 Glembatumumab vedotin &#160; Metastatic melanoma &#160; &#151; &#160; Phase 2 Varlilumab &#160; Multiple solid tumors &#160; &#151; &#160; Phase 1/2 CDX-1401 &#160; Multiple solid tumors &#160; &#151; &#160; Phase 1 CDX-301 &#160; Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation &#160; &#151; &#160; Phase 2 CDX-014 &#160; Renal cancer &#160; &#151; &#160; Phase 1 

Our future success depends upon many factors, including our ability, and that of any licensees and collaborators that we may have, to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our drug candidates, as well as any related companion diagnostic tests. We have had no commercial revenues from sales of our drug candidates, and we have had a history of operating losses. It is possible that we may not be able to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, or commercialize, our drug candidates, and we are subject to a number of risks that you should be aware of before investing in us. These risks are described more fully in "Item 1A. Risk Factors." 

Clinical Development Programs 

Rintega 

Rintega is an epidermal growth factor receptor variant III, or EGFRvIII, specific vaccine for glioblastoma, or GBM. EGFRvIII is a mutated form of the epidermal growth factor receptor, or EGFR, that is only expressed in cancer cells and not in normal tissue and can directly contribute to cancer cell growth. EGFRvIII is expressed in approximately 30% of GBM tumors, the most common and aggressive form of brain cancer. Rintega is composed of the EGFRvIII peptide linked to a carrier protein called Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanin, or KLH, and administered together with the adjuvant GM-CSF. The FDA and the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, have both granted Orphan Drug Designation for Rintega for the treatment of EGFRvIII expressing GBM. The FDA has also granted Fast Track designation. In February 2015, the FDA granted Rintega Breakthrough Therapy Designation for the treatment of adult patients with EGFRvIII-positive glioblastoma. 

The Phase 2a study of Rintega referred to as ACTIVATE was led by collaborating investigators at the Brain Tumor Center at Duke Cancer Institute in Durham, North Carolina and at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas and enrolled 18 evaluable GBM patients. An extension of the Phase 2a study referred to as ACT II evaluated 22 additional GBM patients treated in combination with the current standard of care, maintenance temozolomide, or TMZ, at the same two institutions. 

The Phase 2b study of Rintega referred to as ACT III combined Rintega with standard of care, TMZ, in patients with newly diagnosed GBM. The ACT III study provided for a multi-center, non-randomized dataset for Rintega in 65 patients at over 30 sites throughout the United States, or U.S. 

In November 2013, we announced the four- and five-year survival data from the 105 patients enrolled in the three Phase 2 Rintega clinical studies (ACTIVATE, ACT II and ACT III) in EGFRvIII-positive GBM. Across these three Phase 2 studies of Rintega, survival data remains consistent and suggests a continuing survival benefit in comparison to independent control datasets (see chart below) at the median and at all other time points evaluated. 

Phase 2 Front-line Long-term Overall Survival Assessments 

&#160; &#160; Median, Years (95% CI) &#160; 2-year rate &#160; 3-year rate &#160; 4-year rate &#160; 5-year rate &#160; Phase 2 Rintega studies (n=105) &#160; &#160; 2.1 (1.8, 2.4 ) &#160; 51 % &#160; 30 % &#160; 18 % &#160; 14 % Matched historical control (n=17)(1) &#160; &#160; 1.3 (0.9, 1.7 ) &#160; 6 % &#160; 6 % &#160; 0 % &#160; 0 % 

(1) Patients treated at M.D. Anderson contemporaneously to ACTIVATE, matched for major eligibility requirements, including EGFRvIII-positive GBM, gross total resection and no disease progression through chemoradiation treatment. 

The pooled overall long-term survival results continue to be consistent with the ACT III Phase 2 study (18% for 4-years and 14% for 5-years). 

In December 2011, we initiated ACT IV, a pivotal, randomized, double-blind, controlled Phase 3 study of Rintega in patients with surgically resected, EGFRvIII-positive GBM. Patients were randomized after the completion of surgery and standard chemoradiation treatment. The treatment regimen includes a Rintega priming phase post-radiation followed by an adjuvant phase where Rintega is dosed along with TMZ and a Rintega maintenance therapy phase. Patients are treated until disease progression or intolerance to therapy. The primary objective of the study is to determine whether Rintega plus adjuvant GM-CSF improves the overall survival of patients with newly diagnosed EGFRvIII-positive GBM with minimal residual disease post resection and traditional chemoradiation when compared to treatment with TMZ and a control injection of KLH. KLH is a component of Rintega and was selected due to its ability to generate a similar injection site reaction to that observed with Rintega. 

In December 2014, enrollment was completed in the ACT IV study. In total, over 4,800 tissue samples from GBM patients were submitted for EGFRvIII evaluation from more than 200 clinical trial sites across 22 countries and, consistent with prior studies, 30% were positive for the EGFRvIII mutation. The study enrolled 745 patients to reach the required 374 patients with minimal residual disease (assessed by central review) needed for analysis of the primary overall survival endpoint. All patients, including patients with disease that exceed this threshold, will be included in a secondary analysis of overall survival as well as analyses of progression-free survival, safety and tolerability, and quality of life. The timing of the overall survival primary endpoint data is event-driven. The study design requires interim analyses to be conducted by an independent Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB) at 50% and 75% of events (deaths). The first interim analysis occurred in June 2015, and the DSMB recommended continuation of the study as planned. The required number of events to perform the second interim analysis of ACT IV were reached in late 2015, and the analysis is expected to occur in March 2016. Final data from ACT IV are expected by the end of 2016, although our expectations regarding the timing for the final data read out may change based on event rates. 

In December 2011, we also initiated ReACT, a Phase 2 study of Rintega in combination with Avastin&#174; in patients with recurrent EGFRvIII-positive GBM. This study completed enrollment in 2014 and includes 3 groups. Group 1 consists of 73 patients who had not previously received Avastin and were randomized to receive either Rintega and Avastin or a control injection of KLH and Avastin in a blinded fashion. Group 2 includes 25 patients who are refractory to Avastin having received Avastin in either the frontline or recurrent setting with subsequent progression and who received Rintega plus Avastin in a single treatment arm. In August 2013, we announced the addition of an expansion cohort of up to 75 patients, called Group 2C, to better characterize the potential activity of Rintega in this refractory patient population. This decision was based on early evidence of anti-tumor activity, including stable disease, tumor shrinkage and investigator-reported response. In total, Group 2C enrolled 28 patients. The primary endpoint is six month progression-free survival rate (PFS-6) for 

groups 1 and 2 and objective response rate (ORR) for group 2C. Other study endpoints include PFS-6, ORR, PFS, overall survival, or OS and safety and tolerability. 

In November 2015, we reported the following mature data from Group 1 of the ReACT study. Tumor responses were evaluated in accordance with Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria by an independent expert review committee blinded to treatment group assignment. Data for this long-term update included study results through September 1, 2015. 

&#149; PFS6: As previously reported in May 2015, the primary endpoint of the study, PFS6, was met. In the intent to treat (ITT) population, 28% of patients on the Rintega arm were progression free at six months compared to 16% of patients on the control arm (p=0.1163). &#149; Survival: Mature overall survival (OS) data continue to show a marked benefit [hazard ratio = 0.53 (0.32, 0.88); p=0.0137] with a long-term survival benefit observed in the Rintega arm. Consistent with previous studies of Rintega and the published data observed for immune-mediated therapeutics, this survival benefit includes multiple patients exceeding what is customary survival for EGFRvIII-positive glioblastoma, also referred to as a tail on the survival curve. At two years, the survival rate for Rintega patients in the ITT population is 25% versus 0% for control patients. Overall Survival (OS), Intent to Treat (ITT) Population 

&#160; Hazard Ratio (HR) &#160; &#160; HR = 0.53 (0.32, 0.88); p=0.0137 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#160; &#160; Median (95% CI) &#160; &#160; OS 12 months &#160; &#160; OS 18 months &#160; &#160; OS 24 months &#160; &#160; &#160; Rintega + BV &#160; &#160; 11.3 (9.9, 16.2 ) &#160; 44 % &#160; 32 % &#160; 25 % &#160; Control + BV &#160; &#160; 9.3 (7.1, 11.4 ) &#160; 32 % &#160; 13 % &#160; 0 % 

&#149; Objective Response Rate (ORR): Nine out of 30 evaluable ITT patients (30%) on the Rintega arm experienced a confirmed objective response versus six out of 34 evaluable patients (18%) on the control arm. Five patients on the Rintega arm experienced durable responses greater than six months, and three of these patients experienced durable responses greater than 18 months (range of 18.6+ to 22.2 months). In contrast, only two patients on the control arm experienced a durable response greater than six months, and none experienced a response greater than 7.4 months. &#149; Steroid Use: Further emphasizing the level of disease control, 50% of the 18 patients on the Rintega arm who were on steroids at the start of treatment were able to stop steroids for at least two months during treatment versus only 26% of the 19 patients on the control arm who were on steroids at the start of treatment. 33% of patients on the Rintega arm were able to stop steroids for more than six months, and, of these, three were able to stop for more than one year versus none on the control arm for either time point. &#149; Immune Response: Prolonged survival was associated with high anti-EGFRvIII humoral responses. Recent in vivo experiments have shown those immune responses had tumor killing function through antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) of EGFRvIII-expressing tumor cells. This biologic effector function is rarely proven for immune therapies. Importantly, rapid generation of anti-EGFRvIII humoral response correlated with longer survival; however, even those with slower development of immune responses benefitted. No patient in the control arm had detectable EGFRvIII specific antibody response. This effect is consistent with Rintega's proposed mechanism of action as a targeted immunotherapeutic vaccine. &#149; Other: Multiple subgroup and adjusted analyses have concluded that the consistent survival benefit observed in the study was not influenced by potential imbalances in patient demographics. 4 

&#149; Safety: Rintega was very well tolerated without unexpected additive toxicity to Avastin. Additional studies of Rintega are currently planned including: 

&#149; A Phase 2 study of Rintega prior to and concurrent with chemoradiation and maintenance temozolomide in patients with newly diagnosed EGFRvIII-positive glioblastoma. Prior studies of Rintega in the newly diagnosed setting have initiated Rintega dosing upon completion of chemoradiation concurrent with maintenance temozolomide. This single-cohort, open label study is designed to explore the feasibility of dosing at an earlier timepoint (after surgery but prior to and concurrent with chemoradiation). The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the EGFRvIII peptide-specific immune response obtained with this dosing regimen. Secondary objectives include evaluation of anti-tumor activity, including PFS, OS, ORR and duration of response, assessment of health-related quality of life outcomes, and safety and tolerability. This study is expected to open to enrollment in the second half of 2016. &#149; A Phase 2 single-arm study of Rintega with adjuvant imiquimod, a topically administered immune response modifier, in combination with Avastin in patients with recurrent EGFRvIII-positive glioblastoma. Previous studies of Rintega have utilized the immune response modifier GM-CSF. Imiquimod has broad commercial availability and could potentially serve as a second source of adjuvant if needed, especially outside the United States where GM-CSF is currently available through specialty distribution channels. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate EGFRvIII-specific immune responses. Secondary objectives include evaluation of measures of anti-tumor activity, including ORR, duration of response, PFS, and OS, and to characterize the safety and tolerability profile of this combination approach. This study is expected to open to enrollment in March of 2016. Concurrent with our Rintega clinical development program, we are collaborating with Laboratory Corporation of America (LabCorp) in the U.S. and Qiagen in the European Union, or EU, for the potential commercialization of a companion diagnostic to enable identification of the EGFRvIII mutation in patients with glioblastoma. The LabCorp diagnostic has been developed in parallel with the clinical development of Rintega and was utilized to screen patients for the Phase 3 ACT IV study and the Phase 2 ReACT study. In the U.S., we are working with LabCorp to file the diagnostic for FDA approval concurrently with Celldex's potential BLA submission, pending successful completion of the ACT IV study. In the EU, Qiagen will seek CE marking of the diagnostic and anticipates completing this certification in the second half of 2016. 

Glembatumumab Vedotin 

Glembatumumab vedotin is an antibody-drug conjugate, or ADC, that consists of a fully human monoclonal antibody, CR011, linked to a potent cell-killing drug, monomethyl-auristatin E, or MMAE. The CR011 antibody specifically targets glycoprotein NMB, referred to as gpNMB, that is over-expressed in a variety of cancers including breast cancer and melanoma. The ADC technology, comprised of MMAE and a stable linker system for attaching it to CR011, was licensed from Seattle Genetics, Inc. and is the same as that used in the marketed product Adcetris&#174;. The ADC is designed to be stable in the bloodstream. Following intravenous administration, glembatumumab vedotin targets and binds to gpNMB, and upon internalization into the targeted cell, glembatumumab vedotin is designed to release MMAE from CR011 to produce a cell-killing effect. The FDA has granted Fast Track designation to glembatumumab vedotin for the treatment of advanced, refractory/resistant gpNMB-expressing breast cancer. 

Treatment of Breast Cancer: The Phase 1/2 study of glembatumumab vedotin administered intravenously once every three weeks evaluated patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who had received prior therapy (median of seven prior regimens). The study began with a bridging phase to confirm the maximum tolerated dose, or MTD, and then expanded into a Phase 2 

open-label, multi-center study. The study confirmed the safety of glembatumumab vedotin at the pre-defined maximum dose level (1.88 mg/kg) in 6 patients. An additional 28 patients were enrolled in an expanded Phase 2 cohort (for a total of 34 treated patients at 1.88 mg/kg, the Phase 2 dose) to evaluate the PFS rate at 12 weeks. The 1.88 mg/kg dose was well tolerated in this patient population with the most common adverse events of rash, alopecia and fatigue. The primary activity endpoint, which called for at least 5 of 25 (20%) patients in the Phase 2 study portion to be progression-free at 12 weeks, was met as 9 of 26 (35%) evaluable patients were progression-free at 12 weeks. 

For all patients treated at the maximum dose level, tumor shrinkage was seen in 62% (16/26) and median PFS was 9.1 weeks. A subset of 10 patients had "triple negative disease," a more aggressive breast cancer subtype that carries a high risk of relapse and reduced survival as well as limited therapeutic options due to lack of over-expression of HER2/neu, estrogen and progesterone receptors. In these patients, 78% (7/9) had some tumor shrinkage, 12-week PFS rate was 70% (7/10), and median PFS was 17.9 weeks. Tumor samples from a subset of patients across all dose groups were analyzed for gpNMB expression. The tumor samples from most patients showed evidence of stromal and/or tumor cell expression of gpNMB. 

In December 2012, we announced final results from the EMERGE study, a randomized, multi-center Phase 2b study of glembatumumab vedotin in 122 patients with heavily pre-treated, advanced, gpNMB-positive breast cancer. Patients were randomized (2:1) to receive either glembatumumab vedotin or single-agent Investigator's Choice, or IC, chemotherapy. Patients randomized to receive IC were allowed to cross over to receive glembatumumab vedotin following disease progression. Activity endpoints included response rate, PFS and OS. The final results, as shown below, suggested that glembatumumab vedotin induces significant response rates compared to currently available therapies in patient subsets with advanced, refractory breast cancers with gpNMB over-expression (expression in at least 25% of tumor cells) and in patients with triple negative breast cancer. The OS and PFS of patients treated with glembatumumab vedotin was also observed to be greatest in patients with triple negative breast cancer who also over-express gpNMB and all patients with gpNMB over-expression. 

EMERGE: Overall Response Rate and Disease Control Data 

&#160; &#160; gpNMB Over-Expression &#160; Triple Negative and gpNMB Over-Expression &#160; &#160; &#160; glembatumumab vedotin &#160; Investigator Choice &#160; glembatumumab vedotin &#160; Investigator Choice &#160; &#160; &#160; (n=25) &#160; (n=8) &#160; (n=12) &#160; (n=4) &#160; Response &#160; &#160; 32 % &#160; 13 % &#160; 33 % &#160; 0 % Disease Control Rate &#160; &#160; 64 % &#160; 38 % &#160; 75 % &#160; 25 % 

Responses per RECIST 1.1; IC = Investigator's Choice; glembatumumab vedotin arm includes 15 patients who crossed over to receive glembatumumab vedotin treatment after progression on IC. Analysis of best response excludes patients who discontinued from study without evaluable post-baseline radiographic imaging (n=15 for glembatumumab vedotin arm; n=5 for IC arm). 

EMERGE: Progression Free Survival (PFS) and Overall Survival (OS) Data 

&#160; &#160; gpNMB Over-Expression &#160; Triple Negative and gpNMB Over-Expression &#160; &#160; &#160; glembatumumab vedotin &#160; Investigator Choice &#160; glembatumumab vedotin &#160; Investigator Choice &#160; Median PFS (months) &#160; 2.7 &#160; &#160; 1.5 &#160; 3.0 &#160; &#160; 1.5 &#160; &#160; p=0.14 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; p=0.008 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Median OS (months) &#160; 10.0 &#160; &#160; 5.7 &#160; 10.0 &#160; &#160; 5.5 &#160; &#160; p=0.18 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; p=0.003 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 

When cross over patients are removed, median OS in patients with gpNMB over-expression is 10.0 months for glembatumumab vedotin vs 5.2 months for IC (p=0.05), and median OS in triple negative patients with gpNMB over-expression is 10.0 months for glembatumumab vedotin vs 5.2 months for IC (p=0.009). 

In December 2013, we initiated METRIC, a randomized, controlled Phase 2b study of glembatumumab vedotin in patients with triple negative breast cancer that over-express gpNMB. Clinical trial sites are open to enrollment across the U.S., Canada and Australia, and trial expansion into the EU is underway with enrollment planned to open in the first quarter of 2016. The METRIC protocol was amended in late 2014 based on feedback from clinical investigators conducting the study that the eligibility criteria for study entry were limiting their ability to enroll patients they felt were clinically appropriate. In addition, we had spoken to country-specific members of the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, and believed a significant opportunity existed to expand the study into the EU. The amendment expanded patient entry criteria to position it for full marketing approval with global regulators, including the EMA, and to support improved enrollment in the study. The primary endpoint of the study is PFS as PFS is an established endpoint for full approval registration studies in this patient population in both the U.S. and the EU. The sample size (n=300) and the secondary endpoint of OS remained unchanged. We implemented these changes in parallel to regulatory discussions to maintain momentum at open clinical trial sites. Since implementation, both the FDA and central European regulatory authorities have reviewed the protocol design, and we believe the METRIC study could support marketing approval in both the U.S. and Europe dependent upon data review. Based on current projections, we believe enrollment will be completed in the second half of 2016. 

Treatment of Metastatic Melanoma: The Phase 1/2 open-label, multi-center, dose escalation study evaluated the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of glembatumumab vedotin in 117 patients with un-resectable Stage III or Stage IV melanoma who had failed no more than one prior line of cytotoxic therapy. The MTD was determined to be 1.88 mg/kg administered intravenously once every three weeks. The study achieved its primary activity objective with an ORR in the Phase 2 cohort of 15% (5/34). Median PFS was 3.9 months. Glembatumumab vedotin was generally well tolerated, with the most frequent treatment-related adverse events being rash, fatigue, hair loss, pruritus, diarrhea and neuropathy. In the subset of patients with tumor biopsies, high levels of tumor expression of gpNMB appeared to correlate with favorable outcome. In the seven patients whose tumors were found to express high amounts of gpNMB, and who were treated at the maximum tolerated doses across all dosing schedules, median PFS was 4.9 months. The development of rash, which may be associated with the presence of gpNMB in the skin, also seemed to correlate with greater PFS. 

In December 2014, we initiated a single arm, open-label Phase 2 study of glembatumumab vedotin in patients with unresectable Stage III or IV melanoma. The study includes approximately 10 sites in the United States and will enroll approximately 60 patients. The primary objective is to evaluate the anticancer activity of glembatumumab vedotin in advanced melanoma as measured by the ORR. Secondary endpoints include analyses of PFS, duration of response, OS, retrospective investigation of 

whether the anticancer activity of glembatumumab vedotin is dependent upon the degree of gpNMB expression in tumor tissue and safety. Based on current projections, we believe enrollment will be completed in the second quarter of 2016. 

We have entered into a collaborative relationship with PrECOG under which they will conduct a Phase 2 study in squamous cell lung cancer. This study is expected to open to enrollment in the first half of 2016. We have also entered into a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement, or CRADA, with the National Cancer Institute, or NCI, under which NCI is sponsoring two studies of glembatumumab vedotin&#151;one in uveal melanoma and one in pediatric osteosarcoma. Both studies are currently open to enrollment. The uveal melanoma study is a single arm, open label study in patients with locally recurrent or metastatic uveal melanoma. The primary outcome measure is ORR. Secondary outcome measures include change in gpNMB expression on tumor tissue via immunohistochemistry, safety, OS and PFS. The osteosarcoma study is a single arm, open label, evaluation of adolescent and adult patients with recurrent or refractory osteosarcoma. The co-primary objectives are to determine whether glembatumumab vedotin therapy either increases the disease control rate at 4 months in patients with recurrent measurable osteosarcoma as compared to historical experience and/or whether glembatumumab vedotin therapy produces an objective response rate greater than 20% in patients without previous eribulin (eribulin mesylate) treatment. Secondary outcome measures include safety, pharmacokinetics and the relation of gpNMB expression as measured by immunohistochemistry to clinical response. 

Varlilumab 

Varlilumab, a fully human monoclonal agonist antibody, binds and activates CD27, a critical co-stimulatory molecule in the immune activation cascade, primarily by stimulating T cells to attack cancer cells. Restricted expression and regulation of CD27 enables varlilumab specifically to activate T cells, resulting in an enhanced immune response with a favorable safety profile. Varlilumab has also been shown to directly kill or inhibit the growth of CD27 expressing lymphomas and leukemias in vitro and in vivo . We have entered into license agreements with the University of Southampton, UK for intellectual property to use anti-CD27 antibodies and with Medarex (now a subsidiary of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, or BMS) for access to the UltiMab technology to develop and commercialize human antibodies to CD27. 

Patient treatment is complete in the open label Phase 1 study of varlilumab in patients with selected malignant solid tumors or hematologic cancers at multiple clinical sites in the U.S. Initial dose escalation cohorts were conducted to determine an optimal dose for future study, and no maximum tolerated dose was reached. The lymphoid malignancies dose escalation arm completed enrollment (n=24), and a new cohort was added to include evaluation of T cell malignancies. An expansion cohort was also added at 0.3 mg/kg dosed once every three weeks in patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (n= up to 15). The solid tumor arm, which included patients with various solid tumors, completed dose escalation in 2013. Two expansion cohorts were subsequently added at 3 mg/kg dosed weekly in metastatic melanoma (n=16) and renal cell carcinoma, or RCC, (n=15) to better characterize clinical activity and further define the safety profile in preparation for combination studies. 

We presented updated data from this Phase 1 study in November 2014. Varlilumab was very well tolerated and induced immunologic activity in patients that is consistent with both its mechanism of action and preclinical models. A total of 86 patients have been dosed in the study. 55 patients have been dosed in dose escalation cohorts (various solid and hematologic B-cell tumors), and 31 patients have been dosed in the expansion cohorts (melanoma and RCC) at 3 mg/kg. In both the solid tumor and hematologic dose-escalations, the pre-specified maximum dose level (10 mg/kg) was reached without identification of a maximum tolerated dose. The majority of adverse events, or AEs, related to treatment have been mild to moderate (Grade 1/2) in severity, with only three serious AEs related to treatment reported. No significant immune-mediated adverse events (colitis, hepatitis, etc.) typically 

associated with checkpoint blockade have been observed. Two patients experienced objective responses including a complete response in Hodgkin lymphoma and a partial response in renal cell carcinoma. Thirteen patients experienced stable disease with a range of 3-36.2+ months (as of November 2015) to-date. Based on the results observed in hematologic malignancies, an expansion cohort in up to 15 patients with Hodgkin lymphoma, and an abbreviated dose escalation in T cell hematologic malignancies were added and are now closed to enrollment. Any incremental data updates from this study will be included in future scientific presentations/publications. 

In May 2014, we entered into a clinical trial collaboration with BMS to evaluate the safety, tolerability and preliminary efficacy of varlilumab and Opdivo&#174;, BMS' PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, in a Phase 1/2 study. Under the terms of this clinical trial collaboration, BMS made a one-time payment to us of $5.0 million, and the companies amended the terms of our existing license agreement with Medarex (a subsidiary of BMS) related to our CD27 program whereby certain future milestone payments were waived and future royalty rates were reduced that may have been due from us to Medarex. In return, BMS was granted a time-limited right of first negotiation if we wish to out-license varlilumab. The companies also agreed to work exclusively with each other to explore anti-PD-1 antagonist antibody and anti-CD27 agonist antibody combination regimens. The clinical trial collaboration provides that the companies will share development costs and that we will be responsible for conducting the Phase 1/2 study. 

The Phase 1/2 study was initiated in January 2015 and is being conducted in adult patients with multiple solid tumors to assess the safety and tolerability of varlilumab at varying doses when administered with Opdivo followed by a Phase 2 expansion to evaluate the activity of the combination in disease specific cohorts. We completed enrollment of the dose escalation portion of the study without identification of a maximum tolerated dose, and a varlilumab dose has been identified for study in Phase 2 (3 mg/kg). We anticipate that the Phase 2 portion of the study will open to enrollment in the second quarter of 2016. The protocol originally included five disease cohorts in the Phase 2 portion of the study&#151;advanced non-small cell lung cancer, colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, and metastatic melanoma. Based on the evolving treatment paradigm for the combination of Opdivo and Yervoy&#174; in metastatic melanoma, a decision has been made not to enroll patients in this disease setting at this time. The protocol is also being amended to include additional cohorts in renal cell carcinoma, where varlilumab has demonstrated single-agent clinical activity, and glioblastoma, an area of focus for both Celldex and BMS. The primary objective of the Phase 2 cohorts will be ORR. Secondary objectives include pharmacokinetics assessments, determining the immunogenicity of varlilumab when given in combination with Opdivo and further assessing the anti-tumor activity of combination treatment. 

In March 2015, we entered into a clinical trial collaboration with Roche to evaluate the safety, tolerability and preliminary efficacy of varlilumab and atezolizumab (anti-PDL1), Roche's investigational cancer immunotherapy, in a Phase 1/2 study. The Phase 1 portion of the study is being conducted in multiple tumor types, and the primary outcome is safety and tolerability. The Phase 2 portion of the study will be conducted in RCC, and the primary outcome is ORR. Secondary outcome measures include safety and tolerability, pharmacokinetics, immunogenicity and further assessment of anti-tumor activity across a broad range of endpoints. Under the terms of this agreement, Roche will provide study drug, and we will be responsible for conducting and funding the study, which opened to enrollment in December 2015. 

In April 2015, we initiated a Phase 1/2 safety pilot and expansion study examining the combination of varlilumab and Yervoy in patients with Stage III or IV metastatic melanoma. In the Phase 2 portion of the study, patients with tumors that express NY-ESO-1 will also receive CDX-1401. The Phase 1 portion of the study will assess the safety and tolerability of varlilumab at varying doses when administered with Yervoy to identify a recommended dose for the Phase 2 portion of the study. The Phase 2 study will include two cohorts&#151;one comprised of patients who are NY-ESO-1 positive and one 

comprised of patients who are NY-ESO-1 negative. Patients who are NY-ESO-1 positive will also receive CDX-1401 (with poly-ICLC at 2 mg given as an adjuvant) in addition to varlilumab and Yervoy. The primary objective for both cohorts is objective response rate up to 24 weeks. Secondary objectives for the Phase 2 study include safety and tolerability, immunogenicity, pharmacokinetics and further assessment of anti-tumor activity across a broad range of endpoints. 

In May 2015, we initiated a Phase 1/2 safety and tolerability study examining the combination of varlilumab and sunitinib (Sutent&#174;) in patients with metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma. The Phase 1 portion of the study will assess the safety and tolerability of varlilumab at varying doses when administered with sunitinib to identify a recommended dose for the Phase 2 portion of the study. The primary objective of the Phase 2 portion of the study is to assess the preliminary anti-tumor efficacy of the varlilumab/sunitinib combination measured by the overall response rate. Secondary objectives include safety and tolerability, pharmacokinetics, immunogenicity and further assessment of anti-tumor activity across a broad range of endpoints. 

In addition to our sponsored studies and clinical trial collaborations, we anticipate that varlilumab's potential activity will also be explored in investigator sponsored studies at various academic institutions. 

CDX-1401 

CDX-1401, developed from our APC Targeting Technology, is an antibody-based NY-ESO-1-specific therapeutic vaccine for multiple solid tumors. The vaccine, which is administered with an adjuvant, is composed of the cancer-specific antigen NY-ESO-1 fused to a fully human antibody that binds to DEC-205 for efficient delivery to dendritic cells. Delivery of tumor-specific proteins directly to dendritic cells in vivo elicits potent, broad, anti-tumor immune responses across populations with different genetic backgrounds. In humans, NY-ESO-1 has been detected in 20% to 30% of all melanoma, lung, esophageal, liver, gastric, prostate, ovarian and bladder cancers, thus representing a broad opportunity. We are developing CDX-1401 for the treatment of malignant melanoma and a variety of solid tumors which express the proprietary cancer antigen NY-ESO-1, which we licensed from the Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research in 2006. Preclinical studies have shown that CDX-1401 is effective for activation of human T cell responses against NY-ESO-1. 

We have completed a Phase 1 study of CDX-1401 which assessed the safety, immunogenicity and clinical activity of escalating doses of CDX-1401 with TLR agonists (resiquimod and/or Poly ICLC) in 45 patients with advanced malignancies refractory to all available therapies. Sixty percent of patients had confirmed NY-ESO expression in archived tumor sample. Thirteen patients maintained stable disease for up to 13.4 months with a median of 6.7 months. Treatment was well tolerated, and there were no dose limiting toxicities. Humoral responses were elicited in both NY-ESO-1 positive and negative patients. NY-ESO-1-specific T cell responses were absent or low at baseline, but increased post-vaccination in 53% of evaluable patients, including both CD4 and/or CD8 T cell responses. Robust immune responses were observed with CDX-1401 with resiquimod and Poly ICLC alone and in combination. Long-term patient follow up suggested that treatment with CDX-1401 may predispose patients to better outcomes on subsequent therapy with checkpoint inhibitors. Of the 45 patients in the Phase 1 study, eight went on to receive subsequent therapy of either Yervoy or an investigational checkpoint inhibitor, and six of these patients had objective tumor regression. Six patients with melanoma received Yervoy within three months of treatment with CDX-1401, and four (67%) had objective tumor responses, including one complete response, which compares favorably to the overall response rate of 11% previously reported in metastatic melanoma patients treated with single-agent Yervoy. In addition, two patients with non-small cell lung cancer received an investigational checkpoint blockade within two months of completing treatment with CDX-1401, and both achieved partial responses. We are currently developing a follow on program that will better assess the impact of CDX-1401 activity on response to subsequent checkpoint inhibitor therapy in these diseases. 

The Phase 1 study identified a well-tolerated and immunogenic regimen to take forward into future studies. As described above, in April 2015, we initiated a Phase 1/2 safety pilot and expansion study examining the combination of varlilumab and Yervoy in patients with Stage III or IV metastatic melanoma. In the Phase 2 portion of the study, patients with tumors that express NY-ESO-1 will also receive CDX-1401. 

In addition to our sponsored studies, CDX-1401's potential activity is also being explored in investigator sponsored and collaborative studies. A Phase 2 study of CDX-1401 in combination with CDX-301 is being conducted in metastatic melanoma by the Cancer Immunotherapy Trials Network under a CRADA with the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program of the NCI. This study will determine if CDX-1401 works better with or without CDX-301 in melanoma. The primary outcome measure of the study is immune response to NY-ESO-1. Secondary outcome measures include analysis and characterization of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (dendritic cells, T cells, natural killer cells, etc.), additional immune monitoring, safety and clinical outcomes (survival and time to tumor recurrence). Enrollment is now complete. Based on results to date, plans for additional studies are being considered by NCI. 

Additionally, a Phase 1/2b multi-arm study of the IDO1 inhibitor INCB024360 in combination with CDX-1401 and Hiltonol&#174; is being conducted in patients in remission with ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer by the Roswell Park Cancer Institute. Celldex is providing CDX-1401 and Hiltonol in support of this study. Patients' tumors must have expressed NY-ESO-1 or the LAGE-1 antigen to be eligible for the study. Primary outcome measures include identifying a maximum tolerated dose determined by the incidence of dose limiting toxicities and progression free survival. Secondary outcome measures include additional safety analyses and immune monitoring. 

CDX-301 

CDX-301, a recombinant FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 ligand, or Flt3L, is a potent hematopoietic cytokine that uniquely expands dendritic cells and hematopoietic stem cells in combination with other agents to potentiate the anti-tumor response. Depending on the setting, cells expanded by CDX-301 promote either enhanced or permissive immunity. CDX-301 is in clinical development for multiple cancers, in combination with vaccines, adjuvants and other treatments that release tumor antigens. We licensed CDX-301 from Amgen Inc. in March 2009 and believe CDX-301 may hold significant opportunity for synergistic development in combination with other proprietary molecules in our portfolio. 

In February 2013, we announced final results from our dose-escalating Phase 1 study of CDX-301 in 30 healthy subjects in collaboration with Rockefeller University. The Phase 1 study evaluated seven different dosing regimens of CDX-301 to determine the appropriate dose for further development based on safety, tolerability and biological activity. The data from the study were consistent with previous clinical experience and demonstrated that CDX-301 was well tolerated and can effectively mobilize hematopoietic stem cell populations in healthy volunteers. In December 2013, we announced data from a preclinical combination study of CDX-301and Mozobil&#174; (Plerixafor injection, formerly AMD3100) demonstrating that the combination of these agents significantly increases hematopoietic stem cell mobilization in mice. The data demonstrate a novel potent cell mobilization regimen combining CDX-301 and Mozobil&#174;, which may have significant potential for use in autologous and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Based on the safety profile and the clinical and preclinical data to date, we initiated a pilot clinical study of CDX-301 for the mobilization and transplantation of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cells in patients with hematological malignancies undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Related donors of patients with hematological malignancies requiring hematopoietic stem cell transplant are administered CDX-301 for 5 or 7 days alone or in combination with Mozobil to mobilize CD34+ stem cells. The primary efficacy endpoint of the study is determine if treatment of the donor results in the collection of &#179; 2 million CD34+ 

HSCs/kg recipient body weight in &#163; 2 leukopoiesis collections. Other key endpoints are the safety of the treatment regimen in the donor and clinical outcomes in the recipient, including stem cell engraftment, graft-versus-host disease, immune reconstitution and relapse. Preliminary results from this study were presented at the annual meeting of the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation in February 2016. These preliminary data from three donor/patient pairs showed that CDX-301 given as a single agent was well tolerated and effective at mobilizing hematopoietic stem cells in healthy donors. The stem cell graft contained notable increases in na&#239;ve lymphocytes and plasmacytoid dendritic cells consistent with preclinical data suggesting a possible better outcome. Recipients experienced successful engraftment in an expected time frame. Additional subjects are being accrued to assess the potential synergy of combining CDX-301 with Mozobil in this setting. 

In addition to our sponsored studies and clinical trial collaborations, CDX-301's potential activity is also being explored in investigator sponsored studies at various academic institutions. This includes a Phase 1/2 study of CDX-301 and Hiltonol in combination with low-dose radiotherapy in patients with low-grade B-cell lymphomas conducted by the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. The primary outcome of the study is objective response rate. Secondary outcome measures include safety and tumor specific immune response. 

CDX-014 

CDX-014 is a fully-human monoclonal ADC that targets T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain 1, or TIM-1, a molecule that is upregulated in several cancers, including renal cell and ovarian carcinomas. TIM-1 is associated with kidney injury, and the shedding of its ectodomain is a predictive biomarker for tumor progression. TIM-1 has very restricted expression in healthy tissues, making it a promising target for antibody mediated therapy. The TIM-1 antibody is linked to MMAE using Seattle Genetics' proprietary technology. The ADC is designed to be stable in the bloodstream, but to release MMAE upon internalization into TIM-1-expressing tumor cells, resulting in a targeted cell-killing effect. CDX-014 has shown potent activity in preclinical models of ovarian and renal cancer. The Investigative New Drug (IND) Application is active, and we expect to initiate a Phase 1 clinical study in renal cell carcinoma in 2016. 

Development Strategy 

Immunotherapy Platform: 

We believe there is untapped potential in immunotherapy that can be captured through the right combination and/or sequence of therapeutic agents. Immunotherapy approaches have encountered difficulties when following standard drug development. The mechanisms of action are complex, activity is generally not dependent on highest tolerated dose and patient response is highly variable. Our understanding of the immune system, cancer's effect on immune mediated mechanisms, and the impact of conventional therapies on the immune system provide a new rationale for combining therapies that may lead to significant clinical benefit for patients with cancer. 

Our intent is to leverage this knowledge and the availability of good, tested products that may not have optimal clinical activity as a monotherapy, but which we believe may be very effective in combination approaches. Our goal is to design and develop targeted products that maximize the efficacy of immunotherapy regimens through combinations of therapeutic agents in significant and growing markets. We establish governmental and corporate alliances to fund development when appropriate and intend to commercialize our products either through our own direct selling efforts or, for products which we cannot develop ourselves through to commercialization, through corporate partners. This approach allows us to maximize the overall value of our technology and product portfolios while best ensuring the expeditious development of each individual product. 

Factors that may significantly harm our commercial success, and ultimately the market price of our common stock, include but are not limited to, announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors, disclosure of unsuccessful results of clinical testing or regulatory proceedings and governmental approvals, adverse developments in patent or other proprietary rights, public concern about the safety of products developed by us and general economic and market conditions. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors." 

Partnerships 

We plan to commercialize our lead drug candidate Rintega ourselves in North America and Europe. We may enter into co-development and commercialization partnerships for any of our programs where appropriate, including Rintega for commercialization outside of North America and Europe, glembatumumab vedotin and varlilumab. In the past, we have entered into collaborative partnership agreements with pharmaceutical and other companies and organizations that provided financial and other resources, including capabilities in research, development, manufacturing, and sales and marketing, to support our research and development programs and may enter into more of them in the future. 

Partnership agreements may terminate without benefit to us if the underlying products are not fully developed. If we fail to meet our obligations under these agreements, they could terminate and we might need to enter into relationships with other collaborators and to spend additional time, money, and other valuable resources in the process. We cannot predict whether our collaborators will continue their development efforts or, if they do, whether their efforts will achieve success. Many of our collaborators face the same kinds of risks and uncertainties in their business that we face. A delay or setback to a partner will, at a minimum, delay the commercialization of any affected products, and may ultimately prevent it. Moreover, any partner could breach its agreement with us or otherwise not use best efforts to promote our products. A partner may choose to pursue alternative technologies or products that compete with our technologies or products. In either case, if a partner failed to successfully develop one of our products, we would need to find another partner. Our ability to do so would depend upon our legal right to do so at the time and whether the product remained commercially viable. 

Research Collaboration and License Agreements 

We have entered into license agreements whereby we have received licenses or options to license technology, specified patents and/or patent applications. These license and collaboration agreements generally provide for royalty payments equal to specified percentages of product sales, annual license maintenance fees, continuing patent prosecution costs and potential future milestone payments to third parties upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. 

Medarex, Inc., a subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb (Medarex) 

We and Medarex have entered into an assignment and license agreement, as amended, that provides for the assignment of certain patent and other intellectual property rights and a license to certain Medarex technology related to the Company's APC Targeting Technology&#153; and an anti-mannose receptor product. Under the terms of the agreement, we may be required to pay royalties in the low-single digits on any net product sale of a Licensed Royalty-Bearing Product or Anti-Mannose Product to Medarex until the later of (i) the expiration of the last to expire applicable patent and (ii) the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale of such licensed product. 

We and Medarex have also entered into a research and commercialization agreement, as amended, that provides that we may be required to pay Medarex milestones of up to $7.0 million upon obtaining first approval for commercial sale in a first indication of a product containing a licensed antibody and 

royalty payments in the low-to-mid single digits on any net product sales with respect to the development of any products containing such licensed antibodies until the later of (i) the expiration of the last to expire applicable patent and (ii) the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale of such licensed product. In September 2010, we exercised an option under our research and commercialization agreement, whereby we licensed from Medarex access to the UltiMab technology to develop and commercialize human antibodies to CD27, including varlilumab. In connection with the clinical trial collaboration we entered into with BMS in May 2014, we and BMS agreed to waive certain future milestone payments and to reduce future royalty rates that we may have owed Medarex in connection with any CD27 program. 

Rockefeller University (Rockefeller) 

In November 2005, we and Rockefeller entered into a license agreement for the exclusive worldwide rights to human DEC-205 receptor, with the right to sublicense the technology. The license grant is exclusive except that Rockefeller may use and permit other nonprofit organizations to use the human DEC-205 receptor patent rights for educational and research purposes. We may be required to pay Rockefeller milestones of up to $3.8 million upon obtaining first approval for commercial sale in a first indication of a product targeting the licensed receptor and royalty payments in the low-to-mid single digits on any net product sales with respect to development and commercialization of the human DEC-205 receptor. 

Duke University Brain Tumor Cancer Center (Duke) 

In September 2006, we and Duke entered into a license agreement that gave us access and reference to the clinical data generated by Duke and its collaborators in order for us to generate our own filing with the FDA relating to Rintega. We may be required to pay Duke milestones of up to $0.7 million upon obtaining first approval for commercial sale in a first indication and royalty payments in the low-single digits on any net product sales with respect to development and commercialization of Rintega. 

Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research (Ludwig) 

In October 2006, we and Ludwig entered into an agreement for the nonexclusive rights to certain cancer tumor targets for use in combination with our APC Targeting Technology. We may be required to pay Ludwig milestones of up to $1.0 million upon obtaining first approval for commercial sale in a first indication and royalty payments in the low-single digits on any net product sales with respect to development and commercialization of the technology licensed from Ludwig. 

Alteris Therapeutics, Inc. (Alteris) 

In October 2005, we completed the acquisition of the assets of Alteris, including the EGFRvIII molecule. We may be required to pay Alteris up to $5.0 million upon obtaining the first approval for commercial sale of a product containing EGFRvIII, including Rintega. 

University of Southampton, UK (Southampton) 

In November 2008, we entered into a license agreement with Southampton to develop human antibodies towards CD27, a potentially important target for immunotherapy of various cancers. We may be required to pay Southampton milestones of up to approximately $1.4 million upon obtaining first approval for commercial sale in a first indication and royalty payments in the low-single digits on any net product sales with respect to development and commercialization of varlilumab. 

Amgen Inc. (Amgen) 

In March 2009, we entered into a license agreement with Amgen to acquire the exclusive rights to CDX-301 and CD40 ligand, or CD40L. CDX-301 and CD40L are immune modulating molecules that increase the numbers and activity of immune cells that control immune responses. We may be required to pay Amgen milestones of up to $0.9 million upon obtaining first approval for commercial sale in a first indication and royalty payments in the low-single digits on any net product sales with respect to development and commercialization of the technology licensed from Amgen, including CDX-301. 

Amgen Fremont (formerly Abgenix) 

In connection with our acquisition of CuraGen Corporation in 2009, we assumed the license agreement between CuraGen and Amgen Fremont (successor in-interest to Abgenix) to develop fully-human monoclonal antibody therapeutics. In May 2009, an amendment to the license agreement was entered into related to CuraGen's exclusive rights to develop and commercialize glembatumumab vedotin, CDX-014 and antibodies to 10 other licensed antigens. Under the amendment, CuraGen and Amgen Fremont agreed to modify the terms of their existing cross-license of antigens whereby our amended license is fully paid-up and royalty-free. 

Seattle Genetics, Inc. (Seattle Genetics) 

In connection with our acquisition of CuraGen, we assumed the license agreement between CuraGen and Seattle Genetics whereby CuraGen acquired the rights to proprietary ADC technology, with the right to sublicense, for use with its proprietary antibodies for the potential treatment of cancer. Under the terms of the agreement, we have the responsibility of using commercially reasonable efforts to develop, commercialize and market such treatment. In furtherance of these responsibilities, technical assistance from Seattle Genetics is available to us as necessary. We may be required to pay Seattle Genetics milestones of up to $5.0 million and $9.0 million for glembatumumab vedotin and CDX-014, respectively, upon obtaining first approval for commercial sale in a first indication and royalty payments in the mid-single digits on any net product sales with respect to development and commercialization of these product candidates. The term of the agreement varies country to country and may be until the later of the expiration of the last relevant patent or the 10 th anniversary of the first commercial sale. The agreement allows us to terminate with prior written notice, with both parties being able to terminate the agreement for an uncured material breach or insolvency of the other party. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Many of the products that we are attempting to develop and commercialize will be competing with existing therapies. Other companies are pursuing the development of new therapies that target the same diseases and conditions that we are targeting and may compete directly with our drug candidates. We face competition from companies, major universities and research institutions in the United States and abroad, including a number of large pharmaceutical companies, as well as firms specialized in the development and production of vaccines, adjuvants and immunotherapeutic delivery systems. Some of our competitors possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. 

Competitors that we are aware of that have initiated a Phase 3 study or have obtained marketing approval for a potential competitive drug/device for Rintega in the treatment of glioblastoma and/or glembatumumab vedotin in the treatment of breast cancer include AbbVie, Arbor Pharmaceutics, Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene Corporation, Eisai Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, Medigene AG, Northwest Biotherapeutics, Inc., Novartis, Novocure, Pfizer Inc., and Roche. 

Our competitors may utilize discovery technologies and techniques or partner with collaborators in order to develop products more rapidly or successfully than us or our collaborators are able to. In addition, some competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in conducting preclinical and nonclinical testing and human clinical trials of drug candidates, scaling up manufacturing operations and obtaining regulatory approvals of drugs and manufacturing facilities. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for drugs more rapidly than we do. If we obtain regulatory approval and commence commercial sales of our drug candidates, we also will compete with respect to manufacturing efficiency and sales and marketing capabilities, areas in which we currently have limited experience. 

In addition, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products or technologies and may establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. Moreover, technology controlled by third parties that may be advantageous to our business may be acquired or licensed by our competitors, thereby preventing us from obtaining technology on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We will also compete for the services of third parties that may have already developed or acquired internal biotechnology capabilities or made commercial arrangements with other biopharmaceutical companies to target the diseases on which we have focused both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S. 

We also face competition in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific personnel and consultants and in the development and acquisition of technologies. 

Our competitive position will depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, obtain patent protection or otherwise develop proprietary products or processes and secure sufficient capital resources for the often lengthy period between technological conception and commercial sales. We will require substantial capital resources to complete development of some or all of our products, obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and successfully manufacture and market our products. In order to secure capital resources, we anticipate having to sell additional capital stock, which would dilute existing stockholders. We may also attempt to obtain funds through research grants and agreements with commercial collaborators. However, these types of funding are uncertain because they are at the discretion of the organizations and companies that control the funds. As a result, we may not receive any funds from grants or collaborations. Alternatively, we may borrow funds from commercial lenders, likely at high interest rates, which would increase the risk of any investment in us. 

Manufacturing 

We have limited experience in commercial manufacturing. Our ability to conduct late-stage clinical trials, manufacture and commercialize our drug candidates will depend on the ability of such third parties to manufacture our drug candidates on a large scale at a competitive cost and in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and foreign regulatory requirements, if applicable. We rely on contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, to manufacture drug substance and drug product for our late-stage clinical studies of Rintega and glembatumumab vedotin as well as for future commercial supplies. We also rely on CMOs for filling and packaging, labeling, storage and shipping of drug product. In order for us to establish our own commercial manufacturing facility, we would require substantial additional funds and would need to hire and retain significant additional personnel and comply with extensive cGMP regulations applicable to such a facility. The commercial manufacturing facility would also need to be licensed for the production of our drug candidates by the FDA. We work with CMOs under established manufacturing arrangements that comply with the FDA's requirements and other regulatory standards, although there is no assurance that the manufacturing will be successful. 

We have recently initiated use of Rintega drug product manufactured by MilliporeSigma (formerly SAFC, a division of the Sigma Aldrich Corporation) and Patheon Ferentino, in the ACT IV and ReACT clinical studies as well as in compassionate use. We have also established a relationship with Cook Pharmica to fill Rintega for commercial supply. We rely on Biosyn and Ambiopharm for supplying suitable quantities of cGMP starting materials for the manufacture of Rintega. We also rely on Sanofi to supply suitable quantities of commercial quality GM-CSF which is co-administered with Rintega. Any manufacturing failures or delays by our Rintega contract manufacturers or suppliers of critical materials could cause delays in ACT IV and/or the commercial launch of Rintega. 

To date, we have utilized contract manufacturing organizations for the manufacture of clinical trial supplies of glembatumumab vedotin. We have established relationships with Lonza Biologics to manufacture the glembatumumab vedotin antibody and Piramal Healthcare UK Ltd. to manufacture the antibody drug conjugate with the MMAE toxin. The drug substance is then filled and packaged at contract manufacturers. We rely on MilliporeSigma for sourcing of suitable quantities of vcMMAE. Any manufacturing failures or delays by our glembatumumab vedotin contract manufacturers or suppliers of materials could cause delays in our glembatumumab vedotin clinical studies including the METRIC study and/or the commercial launch of glembatumumab vedotin. 

We have established a relationship with Patheon Biologics to scale up and manufacture varlilumab drug substance for global clinical trials and potential commercialization. 

We operate our own cGMP manufacturing facility in Fall River, Massachusetts, to produce drug substance for our current and planned early-stage clinical trials. Our Fall River manufacturing facility has 250L and 1000L bioreactor capacity and is able to manufacture in compliance with FDA regulations, allowing us to distribute potential products to clinical sites in the U.S. for early clinical trials. We manufacture CDX-1401, CDX-301 and CDX-014 drug substance in our Fall River facility for our current and planned Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. The products are then filled and packaged at contract manufacturers. Any manufacturing failures or compliance issues at contract manufacturers could cause delays in our Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies for these product candidates. 

The manufacturing processes for our drug candidates and immunotherapeutic delivery systems utilize known technologies. We believe that the products we currently have under development can be scaled up to permit manufacture in commercial quantities. However, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in scaling up the manufacturing processes. 

While we believe that there is currently sufficient capacity worldwide for the production of our potential products through contract manufacturers, establishing long-term relationships with contract manufacturers and securing multiple sources for the necessary quantities of clinical and commercial materials required can be a challenge. Qualifying the initial source of clinical and ultimately commercial material is a time consuming and expensive process due to the highly regulated nature of the pharmaceutical/biotech industry. These costs may be mitigated by the economies of scale realized in commercial manufacture and product sale. The key difficulty in qualifying more than one source for each product is the duplicated time and expense in doing so without the potential to mitigate these costs if the secondary source is never utilized. 

Use of third party manufacturers limits our control over and ability to monitor the manufacturing process. As a result, we may not be able to detect a variety of problems that may arise and may face additional costs in the process of interfacing with and monitoring the progress of our contract manufacturers. If third party manufacturers fail to meet our manufacturing needs in an acceptable manner, we would face delays and additional costs while we develop internal manufacturing capabilities or find alternate third party manufacturers. It may not be possible to have multiple third party manufacturers ready to supply us with needed material at all or without incurring significant costs. 

Commercial Organization 

Our strategy is to build a fully integrated, commercial stage biopharmaceutical company that would give us the opportunity to retain marketing rights to our product candidates and commercialize such products ourselves where we deem appropriate or pursue strategic partnerships to develop, sell, market and distribute our product candidates where we deem appropriate. We currently plan to commercialize Rintega in the United States and Europe ourselves, if regulatory approval is obtained, and to seek strategic partnerships to commercialize Rintega in other geographies. We may enter into strategic partnerships to develop, sell, market and distribute our other product candidates, including glembatumumab vedotin and varlilumab. 

Over the past few years, we have begun to assemble key components of a commercial organization with a focus on preparation for the potential commercial launch of Rintega, if regulatory approval is obtained. We are assembling a focused commercial team with broad experience in marketing, sales, distribution and product reimbursement. We have also developed the capability to provide current and future market insights to our research and development organization regarding glembatumumab vedotin, varlilumab and our earlier-stage product candidates. 

We have been expanding our understanding of the glioblastoma market, developing our commercial strategy for the potential commercial launch of Rintega, and planning the infrastructure necessary to support future commercial activities. Our understanding of the glioblastoma market in the United States and Europe incorporates information regarding the current standard of care as well as patient, health care provider and payor attitudes toward current and potential future therapies. Based on this information and the data obtained from our Phase 2 clinical trials of Rintega, we have begun developing our go- to-market strategy for Rintega, which we intend to update and refine as we obtain additional information regarding the potential commercial profile for Rintega. In particular, we plan to incorporate the information we obtain regarding the efficacy and safety of Rintega from our registration program into our marketing strategy. 

As we continue to prepare for a potential Rintega commercial launch in the United States and Europe, we plan to expand our commercial organization over the next six to twelve months. This expansion will include implementation of internal systems and infrastructure in order to support commercial sales, incorporation of appropriate compliance policies and procedures, establishment of patient-focused programs and hiring and training a marketing and sales force to promote Rintega, if regulatory approval is obtained, to health care providers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish any of these activities or hire and train an effective marketing and sales force. 

Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Rights 

In general, our intellectual property strategy is to protect our technology by filing patent applications and obtaining patent rights covering our own technology, both in the United States and in foreign countries that we consider important to our business. In addition, we have acquired and will seek to acquire as needed or desired, exclusive rights of others through assignment or license to complement our portfolio of patent rights. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented know-how and technological expertise and innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. 

Patents 

The successful development and marketing of products by us will depend in part on our ability to create and maintain intellectual property, including patent rights. We are the owner or exclusive licensee to proprietary patent positions in the areas of immunotherapy technologies, vaccine technologies, antibody technologies and complement inhibitor technology. Although we continue to pursue patent protection for our products, no assurance can be given that any pending application will issue as a patent, that any issued patent will have a scope that will be of commercial benefit or that we 

will be able to successfully enforce our patent position against infringers. We routinely review our patent portfolio and adjust our strategies for prosecution and maintenance of individual cases according to a number of factors including program priorities, stage of development and patent term. 

We own or license rights under more than 300 granted patents and national and regional patent applications in the U.S. and in major international territories covering inventions relating to our business. The key patents and patent applications owned by us or licensed to us that we consider important to our business include the following (the indicated and estimated patent expiry dates do not include any possible patent term extensions or supplementary protection certificates, if these may be secured in due course): 

&#149; We have licensed rights from Duke University under an issued European patent, a patent application in the U.S. and patents and patent applications in other major international territories relating to uses of Rintega. If and where issued and maintained to full term in a form which covers commercial use of Rintega, the filings could potentially provide patent protection for the relevant use in the relevant territories to 2026. We also have patent applications in the U.S. and major international territories relating to methods of manufacture and formulation of Rintega, which, if issued in a form which covers manufacture and/or formulation of Rintega and maintained to full term in due course, would have estimated patent expiry dates in 2030. &#149; Our patent portfolio for glembatumumab vedotin includes issued patents in the U.S., Europe, Japan and Australia and a pending patent application in Canada. If and where issued and maintained to full term in due course, these would have estimated patent expiry dates in 2025. In addition, patent rights relating to the toxin and conjugation technology used in glembatumumab vedotin have been licensed from Seattle Genetics. The patent rights from Seattle Genetics include issued patents and pending applications in Australia, Canada, Europe, the U.S. and Japan which include composition of matter claims relating to the toxin and conjugation technology. If maintained to full term in due course, the main Seattle Genetics patent rights would have estimated patent expiry dates ranging from 2023 in Europe to 2026 in the U.S. &#149; We have licensed rights from the University of Southampton under issued U.S. and European patents and under pending patent applications in Japan and Canada relating to the technology used in varlilumab. If and where issued and maintained to full term in due course, these would have estimated patent expiry dates in 2027. In July 2013, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued a patent to the University of Southampton, that we have exclusive license to under our license agreement, which broadly supports varlilumab. The patent includes 18 claims covering various methods of treating cancer using agonistic anti-human CD27 antibodies and relates, among other things, directly to our CD27 antibody program and therapeutic uses of varlilumab. In September 2014, two European patent oppositions were filed against the University of Southampton European patent. We intend to defend the European patent vigorously in cooperation with the University of Southampton. We also have an issued U.S. patent which covers varlilumab as a composition of matter. If maintained to full term this patent would have an estimated patent expiry date in 2034 (including additional term due to Patent Term Adjustment). We also have corresponding patent applications in the major international territories which, if issued and maintained to full term in due course, would have estimated patent expiry dates in 2031. 19 

&#149; We have issued U.S. patents relating to the technology used in CDX-1401 which have estimated patent expiry dates in at least 2028 (not including increases of term due to Patent Term Adjustment). We have a corresponding issued European patent and further patents and pending patent applications in other international territories relating to the technology used in CDX-1401 which, if and where issued and maintained to full term in due course, would have estimated patent expiry dates in 2028. &#149; Patents for the technology used in CDX-301 have current expiration dates that range from 2016 in the major European territories to 2020 in the U.S. &#149; Our patent portfolio for CDX-014 includes rights under issued U.S. and European patents and further pending patent applications in the U.S., Europe, Australia, Canada and Japan. If issued and maintained to full term in due course, these filings would have estimated patent expiry dates in at least 2024 (not including increases of term due to Patent Term Adjustment in the U.S.). In addition, patent rights relating to toxin and conjugation technology have been licensed from Seattle Genetics. The patent rights from Seattle Genetics include issued patents and pending patent applications in Australia, Canada, Europe, the U.S. and Japan which include composition of matter claims relating to the toxin and conjugation technology. If maintained to full term in due course, the main Seattle Genetics patent rights would have estimated patent expiry dates ranging from 2023 in Europe to 2026 in the U.S. There can be no assurance that patent applications owned by or licensed to us will result in granted patents or that, if granted, the resultant patents will afford protection against competitors with similar technology. It is also possible that third parties may obtain patents or other proprietary rights that may be necessary or useful to us. In cases where third parties are first to invent a particular product or technology, it is possible that those parties will obtain patents that will be sufficiently broad to prevent us from using important technology or from further developing or commercializing important drug candidates and immunotherapeutic systems. If licenses from third parties are necessary but cannot be obtained, commercialization of the covered products might be delayed or prevented. Even if these licenses can be obtained, they would probably require us to pay ongoing royalties and other costs, which could be substantial. 

Although a patent has a statutory presumption of validity in the United States, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to validity or as to the enforceable scope of the patent claims. The validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by the Patent and Trademark Office can be challenged in litigation. As a business that uses a substantial amount of intellectual property, we face a heightened risk of intellectual property litigation. If the outcome of the litigation is adverse to the owner of the patent, third parties may then be able to use the invention covered by the patent without authorization or payment. There can be no assurance that our issued patents or any patents subsequently issued to or licensed by us will not be successfully challenged in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that our patents will not be infringed or that the coverage of our patents will not be successfully avoided by competitors through design innovation. 

We are aware that others, including universities and companies, have filed patent applications and have been granted patents in the United States and other countries which claim subject matter potentially useful or necessary to the commercialization of our products. The ultimate scope and validity of existing or future patents which have been or may be granted to third parties, and the availability and cost of acquiring rights in those patents necessary to the manufacture, use or sale of our products presently cannot be determined by us. 

Third parties may have or may obtain valid and enforceable patents or proprietary rights that could block us from developing products using our technology, including: 

&#149; certain patents and applications in the United States and Europe owned by Sanofi, which relate to antibody-antigen conjugates and methods of their use for eliciting an immune response against the antigen; &#149; certain patents and applications in the United States and foreign countries covering particular antigens and antigenic fragments targeted by our current drug candidates, including CDX-1401; &#149; certain patents and pending applications related to particular receptors and other molecules on dendritic cells and macrophages that may be useful for generating monoclonal antibodies and can be employed in our APC Targeting Technology; &#149; two United States patents and related foreign patents and applications covering methods of diagnosing gliomas by detecting the presence of the EGFRvIII (tumor specific splice variant) protein; &#149; a United States patent relating to certain uses of GM-CSF; &#149; a United States patent owned by Genentech, Inc., relating to the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells; &#149; a United States patent owned by GlaxoSmithKline plc related to methods of culturing cells under certain conditions; and &#149; certain patents held by third parties relating to antibody expression in particular types of host cells. In addition to the patents referred to in the previous paragraphs, there may be other patent applications and issued patents belonging to competitors that may require us to alter our drug candidates and immunotherapeutic delivery systems, pay licensing fees or cease some of our activities. If our drug candidates conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to competitors, universities or others, the patent owners could bring legal action against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the patented products. If any of these actions is successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any such action or that any license required under any such third party patent would be made available on acceptable terms or at all. We believe that there may be significant litigation in the biotechnology industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in that litigation, we could consume substantial resources. 

Licenses 

We have entered into several significant license agreements relating to technologies that are being developed by us. In general, these institutions have granted us an exclusive worldwide license (with right to sublicense) to make, use and sell products embodying the licensed technology, subject to the reservation by the licensor of a non-exclusive right to use the technologies for non-commercial research purposes. Generally, the term of each license is through the expiration of the last of the patents issued with respect to the technologies covered by the license. We have generally agreed to use reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize licensed products and to achieve specified milestones and pay license fees, milestone payments and royalties based on the net sales of the licensed products or to pay a percentage of sublicense income. If we breach our obligations, the licensor has the right to terminate the license, and, in some cases, convert the license to a non-exclusive license. Generally, we control and are responsible for the cost of defending the patent rights of the technologies that we license. 

Proprietary Rights 

We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information, and no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our know-how and information, or that we can meaningfully protect our rights in such unpatented technology, trade secrets and information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. The agreements generally provide that all inventions conceived by the individual in the course of employment or in providing services to us and all confidential information developed by, or made known to, the individual during the term of the relationship shall be the exclusive property of us and shall be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in limited specified circumstances. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such confidential information. 

Government Regulation 

Our activities and products are significantly regulated by a number of governmental entities, including the FDA in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. These entities regulate, among other things, the manufacture, testing, safety, effectiveness, labeling, documentation, advertising and sale of our products. We must obtain regulatory approval from FDA and comparable authorities in other countries, as applicable, for our drug candidates before we can commercialize such drugs in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Product development within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. Many products that initially appear promising ultimately do not reach the market because they are found to be unsafe or ineffective when tested. Our inability to commercialize a product would impair our ability to earn future revenues. 

FDA Approval Process 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs and biological products under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, the Public Health Service Act, or PHSA, and implementing regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable United States requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval may subject an applicant to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as the FDA's refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of untitled or warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement of profits, civil penalties and criminal prosecution. 

The process required by the FDA before a drug or biological product may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#149; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA's good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; &#149; submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#149; approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, at each clinical site before each trial may be initiated; 22 

&#149; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug or biological product for each indication; &#149; submission to the FDA of an NDA or BLA, as applicable; &#149; satisfactory completion of an FDA advisory committee review, if applicable; &#149; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with cGMP requirements and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug's identity, strength, quality and purity; and &#149; FDA review and approval of the NDA or BLA. We expect that all of our clinical product candidates will be subject to review as biological products under BLA standards. 

Data obtained at any stage of testing is susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Moreover, during the regulatory process, new or changed drug approval policies may cause unanticipated delays or rejection of our product. We may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals within a reasonable period of time, if at all, or avoid delays or other problems in testing our products. Moreover, even if we received regulatory approval for a product, the approval may require limitations on use, which could restrict the size of the potential market for the product. 

Clinical Trials 

The FDA provides that human clinical trials may begin thirty (30) days after receipt and review of an IND application, unless the FDA requests additional information or changes to the study protocol within that period. An IND must be sponsored and filed for each of our proposed products. Authorization to conduct a clinical trial in no way assures that the FDA will ultimately approve the product. Clinical trials are generally conducted in three sequential phases. In a Phase 1 trial, the product is given to a small number of healthy volunteers to test for safety (adverse effects). Phase 2 trials are conducted on a limited group of the target patient population; safety, optimal dosage and efficacy are studied. A Phase 3 trial is performed in a large patient population, generally over a wide geographic area to provide evidence for the safety and efficacy of the product. 

A product's safety and effectiveness in one clinical trial is not necessarily indicative of its safety and effectiveness in another clinical trial. Moreover, we may not discover all potential problems with a product even after completing clinical trials on it. Some of our products and technologies have undergone only preclinical testing. As a result, we do not know whether they are safe or effective for humans. Also, regulatory authorities may decide, contrary to our findings, that a product is unsafe or not as effective in actual use as its clinical trial results indicated. This could prevent the product's widespread use, require its withdrawal from the market or expose us to liability. The FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB's requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. Any such action could materially harm us. Clinical trials are critical to the success of our products but are subject to unforeseen and uncontrollable delay, including delay in enrollment of patients. Any delay in clinical trials could delay our commercialization of a product. 

Marketing Approval 

Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical and clinical studies, together with detailed information relating to the product's pharmacology chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA or BLA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. FDA approval of the NDA or BLA is required before marketing of the product may begin in the United States. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs and BLAs is additionally subject to a substantial application user fee, currently exceeding $2,374,200, and the sponsor of an approved NDA or BLA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees, currently exceeding $114,450 per product and $585,200 per establishment. These fees are typically increased annually. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of all NDAs and BLAs within the first 60 days after receipt before accepting them for filing based on the agency's threshold determination that they are sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA or BLA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA has agreed to specified performance goals in the review of NDAs and BLAs. Most such applications for non-priority products are reviewed within ten to twelve months after filing, and most applications for priority review products, that is, drugs and biologics that the FDA determines represent a significant improvement over existing therapy, are reviewed in six to eight months after filing. The review process may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider certain late-submitted information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission. The FDA may also refer applications for novel drugs or biological products or products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Before approving an NDA or BLA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. In addition, before approving an NDA or BLA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP and integrity of the clinical data submitted. 

The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and each may take many years to complete. Data obtained from clinical activities are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may not grant approval on a timely basis, or at all. We may encounter difficulties or unanticipated costs in our efforts to develop our product candidates and secure necessary governmental approvals, which could delay or preclude us from marketing our products. 

After the FDA's evaluation of the NDA or BLA and inspection of the manufacturing facilities, the FDA may issue an approval letter or a complete response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug or biological product with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA's satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. Even with 

submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. 

Even if the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use for the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, require that post-approval studies, including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess a drug's safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms, which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-market studies or surveillance programs. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as changes in indications, manufacturing changes and labeling, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

Special Regulatory Procedures 

Fast track designation &#151;The FDA is required to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs and biologics that are intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and which demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Under the fast track program, the sponsor of a new drug or biologic candidate may request the FDA to designate the product for a specific indication as a fast track product concurrent with or after the filing of the IND for the product candidate. A drug that receives Fast Track designation is eligible for some or all of the following: (i) more frequent meetings with FDA to discuss the drug's development plan and ensure collection of appropriate data needed to support drug approval; (ii) more frequent written communication from FDA about such things as the design of the proposed clinical trials and use of biomarkers; (iii) eligibility for Accelerated Approval and Priority Review, if relevant criteria are met; and (iv) Rolling Review, which means that a drug company can submit completed sections of its BLA or NDA for review by FDA, rather than waiting until every section of the NDA or BLA is completed before the entire application can be reviewed. This rolling review is available if the applicant provides and the FDA approves a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the applicant pays applicable user fees. However, the FDA's time period goal for reviewing a fast track application does not begin until the last section of the NDA or BLA is submitted. In addition, the fast track designation may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process. 

Priority review &#151;Under FDA policies, a product candidate may be eligible for priority review, or review within a six to eight month time frame from the time a complete application is accepted for filing. Products regulated by the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, or CDER, are eligible for priority review if they provide a significant improvement compared to marketed products in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease. Products regulated by the FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, or CBER, are eligible for priority review if they provide a significant improvement in the safety or effectiveness of the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a serious or life-threatening disease. A fast track designated product candidate could be eligible for priority review if supported by clinical data at the time of the BLA or NDA submission. 

Accelerated approval &#151;Under the FDA's accelerated approval regulations, the FDA may approve a drug or biologic for a serious or life-threatening illness that provides meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments based on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. A product candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials to confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to conduct required post-approval studies, or confirm a clinical benefit 

during post-marketing studies, would allow the FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for drug candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by the FDA. 

Breakthrough therapy designation &#151;The FDA is also required to expedite the development and review of the application for approval of drugs that are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. Under the breakthrough therapy program, the sponsor of a new drug candidate may request that the FDA designate the drug candidate for a specific indication as a breakthrough therapy concurrent with, or after, the filing of the IND for the drug candidate. 

Orphan drug designation &#151;Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs or biologics intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally defined as a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. The first NDA or BLA applicant to receive FDA approval for a particular active ingredient to treat a particular disease with FDA orphan drug designation is entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the United States for that product, for that indication. During the seven-year exclusivity period, the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug or biologic for the same orphan indication, except in limited circumstances. Among the other benefits of orphan drug designation are tax credits for certain research and a waiver of the NDA or BLA application user fee. 

Pediatric information 

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, an NDA, BLA or supplement to an NDA or BLA must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug or biological product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of the applicant, grant deferrals for submission of some or all pediatric data until after approval of the product for use in adults, or full or partial waivers from the pediatric data requirements. Under the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, the FDA has additional authority to take action against manufacturers not adhering to pediatric study requirements. Unless otherwise required by regulation, the pediatric data requirements do not apply to products with orphan drug designation. 

Post Approval 

Any drug or biological products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims are subject to prior FDA review and approval. 

The FDA may impose a number of post-approval requirements as a condition of approval of an NDA or BLA. For example, the FDA may require post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety and effectiveness after commercialization. Regulatory approval of oncology products often requires that patients in clinical trials be followed for long periods to determine the overall survival benefit of the drug or biologic. 

In addition, drug and biologic manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs and biological products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. The FDA was also granted new inspection authorities under FDASIA. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon us and any third-party manufacturers that we may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information, imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#149; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; &#149; fines, untitled and warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; &#149; refusal of the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; &#149; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or &#149; consent decrees, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal prosecution. The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Drugs and biologics may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off label uses may be subject to significant liability. 

Biosimilars Law 

The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, amended the PHSA to provide for an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products that demonstrate biosimilarity to a previously-approved biological product. The BPCI Act establishes criteria for determining that a product is biosimilar to an already-licensed biologic, or reference product, and establishes a process by which an abbreviated BLA for a biosimilar product is submitted, reviewed and approved. The BPCI Act provides periods of exclusivity that protect a reference product from biosimilars competition. Under the BPCI Act, the FDA may not accept a biosimilar application for review until four years after the date of first licensure of the reference product, and the biosimilar may not be licensed until 12 years after the reference product's approval. Additionally, the BPCI Act establishes procedures by which the biosimilar applicant must provide information about its application and product to the reference product sponsor, and by which information about potentially relevant patents is shared and litigation over patents may proceed in advance of approval. The BPCI Act also provides a period of exclusivity for the first biosimilar to be determined by the FDA to be interchangeable with the reference product. The BPCIA may be applied to our drug candidates in the future and could be applied to allow approval of biosimilars to our products. 

The FDA has not yet issued proposed regulations setting forth its interpretation of the BPCIA's provisions but has issued guidance documents related to BPCIA implementation. Because the BPCI Act is a relatively new law, we anticipate that its contours will be defined as the statute is implemented over a period of years. This likely will be accomplished by a variety of means, including FDA issuance of guidance documents, proposed regulations and decisions in the course of considering specific applications. Such evolution may significantly affect the impact of the BPCI Act on both reference product and biosimilar sponsors. 

Companion Diagnostic Review and Approval 

We expect that some of our drug candidates, including Rintega, will rely on the use of a companion diagnostic. Companion diagnostics are subject to regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities as medical devices and require separate clearance or approval prior to their commercialization. Based on the guidance published by the FDA in July 2014 and the FDA's past treatment of companion diagnostics, we believe that the FDA will likely require one or more of our in vitro companion diagnostics to obtain Premarket Approval Application, or PMA, in conjunction with approval of the related drug candidate. The receipt and timing of PMA approval may have a significant effect on the receipt and timing of commercial approval for such drug candidates. Currently we rely on third party collaborators to develop companion diagnostics for our drug candidates. 

The PMA process is costly, lengthy and uncertain. PMA applications must be supported by valid scientific evidence, which typically requires extensive data, including technical, preclinical, clinical and manufacturing data, to demonstrate to the FDA's satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device. For diagnostic tests, a PMA application typically includes data regarding analytical and clinical validation studies. As part of its review of the PMA, the FDA will conduct a pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities to ensure compliance with the Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures. If the FDA evaluations of both the PMA application and the manufacturing facilities are favorable, the FDA will either issue an approval letter or an approvable letter, which usually contains a number of conditions that must be met in order to secure the final approval of the PMA. If the FDA's evaluation of the PMA or manufacturing facilities is not favorable, the FDA will deny approval of the PMA or issue a not approvable letter. A not approvable letter will outline the deficiencies in the application and, where practical, will identify what is necessary to make the PMA approvable. The FDA may also determine that additional clinical trials are necessary, in which case the PMA approval may be delayed while the trials are conducted and then the data submitted in an amendment to the PMA. 

Furthermore, even after PMA approval is obtained, numerous regulatory requirements apply to the manufacturer of the companion diagnostic. The FDA enforces these requirements by inspection and market surveillance. These requirements include: the QSR, labeling regulations, the FDA's general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or "off label" uses, the medical device reporting regulation, and the reports of corrections and removals regulation. If the FDA finds a violation, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: fines, injunctions and civil penalties; recall or seizure of products; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; refusing requests for PMA of new products; and withdrawing PMAs already granted. 

Federal and State Fraud and Abuse, Data Privacy and Security and Transparency Laws 

In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products, several other types of federal and state laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing business practices in the biopharmaceutical and medical device industries in recent years. These laws include, without limitation, state and federal anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes and false claims laws, data 

privacy and security laws, as well as transparency laws regarding payments or other items of value provided to healthcare providers. Applicable state law may be broader in scope than federal law and may apply regardless of payor, in addition to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the health regulatory laws described above or any other laws that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including potentially significant criminal and civil and/or administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens, diminished profits and future earnings, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. To the extent that any of our products are sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws, which may include, for instance, applicable post-marketing requirements, including safety surveillance, anti-fraud and abuse laws and implementation of corporate compliance programs and reporting of payments or transfers of value to healthcare professionals. 

In addition, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. It is illegal to pay, offer to pay or authorize the payment of anything of value to any official of another country, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in that capacity. In many countries, the healthcare professionals we may interact with may meet the FCPA's definition of a foreign government official. 

Foreign Regulation 

In order to market any therapeutic or diagnostic product outside of the United States, we need to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 

Under the EU regulatory system, we will submit most of our marketing authorization applications under the centralized procedure. The centralized procedure is compulsory for medicines produced by biotechnology, or are for the treatment of cancer, or officially designated as 'orphan medicines'. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all EU member states. As in the United States, we may apply for designation of our products as orphan drug for the treatment of a specific indication in the EU before the application for marketing authorization is made. The EMA grants orphan medicinal product designation to promote the development of products that may offer therapeutic benefits for life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions affecting not more than five in 10,000 people in the EU. Orphan drugs in Europe enjoy economic and marketing benefits, including a 10-year market exclusivity period for the approved indication, but not for the same product, unless another applicant can show that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the orphan-designated product. 

Other Regulatory Processes 

From time to time, legislation is drafted, introduced and passed in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. 

In addition to new legislation, FDA regulations and policies are often revised or interpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether further legislative changes will be enacted or whether FDA regulations, guidance, policies or interpretations changed or what the effect of such changes, if any, may be. 

Third-Party Payor Coverage and Reimbursement 

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any drug products for which we obtain regulatory approval. Sales of any of our drug candidates, if approved, will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of the drugs will be covered by third-party payors, including government health programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as commercial health insurers, such as managed care organizations. The process for determining reimbursement rates is separate from the payor coverage decision. Therefore, despite obtaining coverage, reimbursement rates may be lower than expected, which can result in larger out-of-pocket payments for the patient. 

In order to secure coverage and reimbursement for any drug that might be approved for sale, we need to conduct analyses and pharmaco-economic studies in order to demonstrate the incremental medical benefit over and above the generally-accepted standard of care and cost-effectiveness of the drug. Our drug candidates may not be considered medically necessary, provide insufficient incremental medical benefit, or may not be deemed cost-effective. A payor's decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. 

The containment of healthcare costs has become a priority of federal, state and foreign governments, and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. If these third-party payors do not consider our drugs to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our drugs after approval as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of reimbursement and/or restrictions in formulary placement may be such that they would significantly limit projected sales volumes. In addition to third party payors, we will also need to negotiate formulary placement with hospitals, health systems and certain independent delivery networks. Such negotiations may be more protracted than anticipated and may be compromised because of similar considerations, relating to insufficient incremental medical benefit and/or cost-effectiveness. 

Pricing and reimbursement schemes vary widely from country to country. For example, certain EU member states may approve a specific price and volume for a drug product after which incremental revenues or profits need to be paid back by way of rebates. They may also institutionalize utilization restrictions, curb physicians' drug budgets, provide conditional reimbursement schemes that require additional evidence to be generated post-marketing authorization, etc. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has been particularly evident in EU markets, for some time, with evidence pointing to increasing pressures on the horizon. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the pricing and reimbursement of new drugs, despite regulatory efforts to bring drugs to market sooner. In addition, cross-border trade has existed for some time in the EU, allowing pharmacies in one country to import, at a lower price, drug from another country, further exerting pricing pressures across the EU. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for drug products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our drugs. 

The marketability of any drugs for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if third-party payors and/or hospital administrators fail to provide adequate coverage, reimbursement or formulary placement. Coverage policies, third-party reimbursement rates and drug pricing regulations may change in the future. In particular, uncertainty within, and over the long-term, of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, in the U.S., may mean that coverage, reimbursement and pricing structures available today may be different in the future. In addition, the States may continue to consider legislation of their own which could further restrict the ability to freely price drugs and/or curb utilization in the U.S. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more drugs for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 199 employees (196 full-time, 1 part-time and 2 interns), 36 of whom have Ph.D. and/or M.D. degrees. Of these employees, 162 were engaged in or directly support research and development activities. We believe that our employee relations are good. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain experienced and skilled employees. 

Corporate and Available Information 

We are incorporated in Delaware. In February 2016, we formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, Celldex Therapeutics Europe GmbH, in Zug, Switzerland, to operate as Celldex' European headquarters when European operations commence, pursuant to intercompany agreements. 

Our website is located at http://www.celldex.com. On our website, investors can obtain, free of charge, a copy of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, other reports and any amendments thereto filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. None of the information posted on our website is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 

