 Item 1. Business 

General 

We are a Maryland REIT that owns a diversified portfolio of equity and debt investments in single-tenant properties and land. A majority of these properties and all land interests are subject to net or similar leases, where the tenant bears all or substantially all of the costs, including cost increases, for real estate taxes, utilities, insurance and ordinary repairs. We also provide investment advisory and asset management services to investors in the single-tenant area. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had equity ownership interests in approximately 215 consolidated real estate properties, located in 40 states and containing an aggregate of approximately 42.3 million square feet of space, approximately 96.8% of which was leased, excluding a property subject to a mortgage in default. In 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , no tenant/guarantor represented greater than 10% of our annual base rental revenue. 

In addition to our shares of beneficial interest, par value $0.0001 per share, classified as common stock, which we refer to as common shares, as of December 31, 2015 , we had one outstanding class of beneficial interest classified as preferred stock, or preferred shares, our 6.50% Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share, or our Series C Preferred Shares. Our common shares and Series C Preferred Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbols &#8220;LXP&#8221; and &#8220;LXPPRC&#8221;, respectively. 

We elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1993. We intend to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal corporate income taxes on our net taxable income that is currently distributed to our common shareholders. 

&#32;3 

History 

Our predecessor, Lexington Corporate Properties, Inc., was organized in the state of Delaware in October 1993 upon the combination of two investment programs, Lepercq Corporate Income Fund L.P., which we refer to as LCIF, and Lepercq Corporate Income Fund II L.P., which we refer to as LCIF II, which were formed to acquire net-lease real estate assets providing current income. Our predecessor was merged into Lexington Corporate Properties Trust, a Maryland statutory REIT, on December 31, 1997. On December 31, 2006, Lexington Corporate Properties Trust changed its name to Lexington Realty Trust and was the successor in a merger with Newkirk Realty Trust, or Newkirk, which we refer to as the Newkirk Merger. All of Newkirk's operations were conducted, and all of its assets were held, through its master limited partnership, subsequently named The Lexington Master Limited Partnership, which we refer to as the MLP. As of December 31, 2008, the MLP was merged with and into us. 

We are structured as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT, as a portion of our business has been conducted through our operating partnership subsidiaries: (1) LCIF and (2) LCIF II. We refer to these subsidiaries as our operating partnerships and to limited partner interests in these operating partnerships as OP units. On December 30, 2013, LCIF II was merged with and into LCIF, with LCIF as the surviving entity. We are party to a funding agreement with LCIF under which we may be required to fund distributions made on account of OP units. The UPREIT structure enables us to acquire properties through an operating partnership by issuing OP units to a seller of property, as a form of consideration in exchange for the property. The outstanding OP units not held by us are generally redeemable for our common shares on a one OP unit for approximately 1.13 common shares basis, or, at our election in certain instances, cash. We believe that this structure facilitates our ability to raise capital and to acquire portfolio and individual properties by enabling us to structure transactions which may defer taxable gains for a contributor of property. As of December 31, 2015 , there were approximately 3.4 million OP units outstanding, other than OP units held by us, which were convertible into approximately 3.8 million common shares, assuming we satisfied redemptions entirely with common shares. 

Investment and Strategy 

General. Our current business strategy is focused on enhancing our cash flow stability, growing our portfolio of attractive long-term leased investments, reducing lease rollover risk and maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet to allow us to act on opportunities as they arise. Generally we seek to acquire general purpose, single-tenant net-leased office and industrial assets subject to long-term leases, in well-located and growing markets or which are critical to the tenant's business, but may also include other asset types subject to long-term net-leases, such as land, retail facilities, schools and medical facilities. We attempt to manage residual value risk associated with such other asset types by acquiring such assets primarily through joint ventures or disposing of such assets when there is sufficient remaining lease term to generate favorable sale prices or by making loan investments secured by such assets at a loan-to-value ratio where we would be comfortable holding an equity interest. We believe our strategy of investing in core assets will ultimately provide shareholders with dividend growth and capital appreciation. 

We implement our strategy by (1) recycling capital in compliance with regulatory and contractual requirements, (2) refinancing or repurchasing outstanding indebtedness when advisable, (3) using fixed-rate non-recourse secured indebtedness to partially finance certain asset acquisitions, (4) effecting strategic transactions, portfolio and individual property acquisitions and dispositions, (5) expanding existing properties, (6) executing new leases with tenants, (7) extending lease maturities in advance of or at expiration and (8) exploring new business lines and operating platforms. Additionally, we may continue to enter into joint ventures and co-investment programs with third-party investors as a means of mitigating risk, creating additional growth and expanding the revenue realized from advisory and asset management activities as situations warrant. 

Portfolio diversification is central to our investment strategy as we seek to create and maintain an asset base that provides steady, predictable and growing cash flows while being insulated against rising property operating expenses, regional recessions, industry-specific downturns and fluctuations in property values and market rent levels. Regardless of capital market and economic conditions, we intend to stay focused on (1) enhancing operating results, (2) improving portfolio quality and reducing risks associated with lease rollover, (3) mitigating risks relating to interest rates and real estate cycles and (4) implementing strategies where our management skills and real estate expertise can add value. We attempt to maintain a portfolio of properties that provide for income and capital appreciation. The proportion of total return generated from rental income versus capital appreciation will vary by asset type, lease term, contractual rental escalations and market location. We believe that our business strategy will continue to improve our liquidity and strengthen our overall balance sheet while creating meaningful shareholder value. 

We intend to maintain a strong balance sheet primarily by (1) financing property acquisitions with non-recourse mortgage debt or unsecured corporate level borrowings at what we believe are favorable rates, (2) issuing equity when market conditions are favorable, (3) selling non-core and underperforming assets and (4) extending debt maturities and refinancing debt at lower rates. 

&#32;4 

Investments. When opportunities arise, we intend to continue to make investments in single-tenant assets that we believe will generate favorable returns. We seek to grow our portfolio primarily by (1) engaging in, or providing funds to developers who are engaged in, build-to-suit projects for single-tenant corporate users, (2) providing capital to corporations by buying properties and leasing them back to the sellers under net or similar leases, (3) acquiring properties already subject to net or similar leases and (4) making mortgage and mezzanine loans generally secured by single-tenant properties subject to net or similar leases. 

Our management has established a broad network of contacts to source investments, including major corporate tenants, developers and brokers. We believe that our geographical diversification and acquisition experience will allow us to continue to compete effectively for such investments. 

Prior to effecting any investment, our underwriting includes analyzing the (1) property's design, construction quality, efficiency, functionality and location with respect to the immediate sub-market, city and region, (2) lease integrity with respect to term, rental rate increases, corporate guarantees and property maintenance provisions, (3) present and anticipated conditions in the local real estate market and (4) prospects for selling or re-leasing the property on favorable terms in the event of a vacancy. To the extent of information publicly available or made available to us, we also evaluate each potential tenant's financial strength, growth prospects, competitive position within its respective industry and a property's strategic location and function within a tenant's operations or distribution systems. We believe that our comprehensive underwriting process is critical to the assessment of long-term profitability of any investment by us. 

Strategic Transactions with Other Real Estate Investment Companies. &#32;We seek to capitalize on the unique investment experience of our management team as well as their network of relationships in the industry to achieve appropriate risk-adjusted yields through strategic transactions. Accordingly, we occasionally pursue the (1) acquisition of portfolios of assets and equity interests in companies with a significant number of single-tenant assets, including through mergers and acquisitions activity, and (2) participation in strategic partnerships, co-investment programs and joint ventures. 

We believe that entering into co-investment programs and joint ventures with institutional investors and other real estate investment companies may mitigate our risk in certain assets and increase our return on equity to the extent we earn management or other fees. However, investments in co-investment programs and joint ventures limit our ability to make unilateral investment decisions relating to the assets and limit our ability to deploy capital. 

Competition 

There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions, such as banks and insurance companies, and other investors with greater financial or other resources that compete with us in seeking properties for acquisition and tenants who will lease space in these properties. Our competitors include other REITs, pension funds, banks, private companies and individuals. 

Internal Growth and Effectively Managing Assets 

Tenant Relations and Lease Compliance. &#32;We endeavor to maintain close contact with the tenants in the properties in which we have an interest in order to understand their financial strength, operations and future real estate needs. We monitor the financial, property maintenance and other lease obligations of the tenants in properties in which we have an interest, through a variety of means, including periodic reviews of financial statements that we have access to and physical inspections of the properties. 

Extending Lease Maturities. &#32;Our property owner subsidiaries seek to extend tenant leases in advance of the lease expiration in order for us to maintain a balanced lease rollover schedule and high occupancy levels. 

Revenue Enhancing Property Expansions. &#32;Our property owner subsidiaries undertake expansions of properties based on lease requirements, tenant requirements or marketing opportunities. We believe that selective property expansions can provide attractive rates of return. 

Capital Recycling. &#32;Subject to regulatory and contractual requirements, we generally sell our interests in properties when we believe that the return realized from selling a property will exceed the expected return from continuing to hold such property and/or there is a better use of the capital to be received upon sale. We also focus our disposition efforts primarily on non-core assets such as vacant, multi-tenant, certain land investments, retail and short-term leased assets. 

Occasionally, we provide seller financing as a means of efficiently disposing of an asset. As a result, if a buyer defaults under the seller financing, we will once again be the owner of the underlying asset. 

Conversion to Multi-Tenant . If one of our property owner subsidiaries is unable to renew a single-tenant lease or if it is unable to find a replacement single tenant, we either attempt to sell our interest in the property or the property owner subsidiary may seek to market the property for multi-tenant use. When appropriate, we seek to sell our interests in these multi-tenant properties. 

&#32;5 

Property Management. From time to time, our property owner subsidiaries use property managers to manage certain properties. Our property management joint venture with an unaffiliated third party manages substantially all of these properties. We believe this joint venture provides us with (1) better management of our assets, (2) better tenant relationships, (3) revenue-enhancing opportunities and (4) cost efficiencies. 

Financing Strategy 

General . Since becoming a public company, our principal sources of financing have been the public and private equity and debt markets, property specific debt, revolving loans, corporate level term loans, issuance of OP units and undistributed cash flows. 

Property Specific Debt . Our property owner subsidiaries seek non-recourse secured debt on a limited basis including when credit tenant lease financing is available. Credit tenant lease financing allows us to significantly or fully leverage the rental stream from an investment at, what we believe are, attractive rates. 

Corporate Level Borrowings. We also use corporate level borrowings, such as revolving loans, term loans, and debt offerings. We expect to finance more of our operations with such corporate level borrowings as (1) non-recourse secured debt matures and (2) such corporate level borrowings are available on favorable terms. 

Balance Sheet Management . In recent years, we have reduced our weighted-average interest rate through the retirement of higher rate non-recourse mortgage debt with proceeds from recourse corporate level borrowings. Our objective is to continually strengthen our balance sheet to provide financial flexibility. 

Common Share Issuances 

From time to time, we raise capital by issuing common shares through (1) at-the-market offering programs, (2) underwritten public offerings, (3) block trades and (4) our direct share purchase plan. The proceeds from our common share offerings are generally used for working capital, including to fund investments and to retire indebtedness. In recent years, our common share issuances have been limited due to the market price of our common shares. However, when market conditions are favorable, we intend to issue common shares. 

Share Repurchases 

We have made, and may continue to make, repurchases of our common and preferred shares in individual transactions when we believe it is advantageous to do so, including when the discount to our net asset value or the liquidation preference, as the case may be, is attractive. During 2015, our Board of Trustees authorized a 10.0 million common share repurchase program. 

Advisory Contracts 

Certain members of our management have been in the business of investing in single-tenant net-lease properties since 1973. This experience has enabled us to provide advisory services to various net-lease investors, including institutional investors and high net-worth individuals. 

Environmental Matters 

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, an owner of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances at, on, in or under such property as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances. These liabilities may include government fines and penalties and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of such substances. Although generally the tenants of the properties in which we have an interest are primarily responsible for any environmental damage and claims related to the leased premises, in the event of the bankruptcy or inability of a tenant of such premises to satisfy any obligations with respect to such environmental liability, a property owner subsidiary may be required to satisfy such obligations. In addition, as the owner of such properties, a property owner subsidiary may be held directly liable for any such damages or claims irrespective of the provisions of any lease. 

&#32;6 

From time to time, in connection with the conduct of our business and generally upon acquisition of a property and prior to surrender by a tenant, the property owner subsidiary authorizes the preparation of a Phase I and, when recommended, a Phase II environmental report with respect to its properties. Based upon such environmental reports and our ongoing review of the properties in which we have an interest, as of the date of this Annual Report, we are not aware of any environmental condition with respect to any of the properties in which we have an interest that we believe would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. There can be no assurance, however, that (1) the discovery of environmental conditions, the existence or severity of which were previously unknown, (2) changes in law, (3) the conduct of tenants or (4) activities relating to properties in the vicinity of the properties in which we have an interest, will not expose us to material liability in the future. Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in significant unanticipated expenditures or may otherwise adversely affect the operations of the tenants of properties in which we have an interest, which would adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. 

Summary of 2015 &#32;Transactions and Recent Developments &#32; 

The following summarizes certain of our transactions during 2015 , including transactions disclosed elsewhere and in our other periodic reports. 

Acquisitions/Investments. With respect to acquisitions/investments, we: 

&#8211; 

purchased properties for an aggregate cost of $349.3 million; 

&#8211; 

completed build-to-suit transactions for an aggregate capitalized cost of $141.8 million; 

&#8211; 

continue to fund ongoing build-to-suit transactions, including non-consolidated entity projects, not yet completed at December 31, 2015 &#32;with an aggregate estimated total cost of $385.1 million of which $133.8 million was invested as of December 31, 2015 ; 

&#8211; 

entered into a forward commitment to acquire a build-to-suit industrial property in Detroit, Michigan for approximately $29.7 million, which is subject to a 20-year net lease; and 

&#8211; 

foreclosed on two properties underlying loan investments of $12.3 million, acquiring the vacant properties and corresponding escrow deposits. 

Capital Recycling . With respect to capital recycling activity, we: 

&#8211; 

disposed of our interests in properties to unaffiliated third parties for an aggregate gross disposition price of $217.7 million; 

&#8211; 

conveyed in foreclosure or via deed-in-lieu of foreclosure certain properties for full satisfaction of the related aggregate $47.5 million in non-recourse mortgages; and 

&#8211; 

received an aggregate $3.5 million for the payoff of the Austin, Texas loan investment, including yield maintenance. 

Leasing. We &#32; entered into 45 new leases and lease extensions, including a non-consolidated entity, encompassing an aggregate 4.0 million square feet, ending the year with our overall portfolio leased at 96.8% as of December 31, 2015 , excluding a property subject to a mortgage in default. 

Financing. With respect to financing activities, we: 

&#8211; 

entered into a new $905.0 million unsecured credit agreement with KeyBank National Association, as agent, to replace our previous credit facility and term loans; 

&#8211; 

converted $3.8 million aggregate original principal amount of 6.00% Convertible Guaranteed Notes due 2030, or 6.00% Convertible Notes, for approximately 0.5 million common shares and aggregate cash payments of $0.5 million plus accrued and unpaid interest; 

&#8211; 

retired $216.0 million in property non-recourse mortgage debt with a weighted-average interest rate of 5.3%; 

&#8211; 

obtained an aggregate of $190.8 million in non-recourse mortgage financing with a weighted-average fixed interest rate of 3.9%; and 

&#8211; 

borrowed $177.0 million, net under our revolving line of credit. 

&#32;7 

Capital . With respect to capital activities, we announced a 10.0 million common share repurchase program and repurchased an aggregate 2,216,799 common shares at an average price of $8.29 per share under the share repurchase program. 

See &#8220;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in Part I, Item 7 of this Annual Report for more detail regarding our 2015 transaction activity. 

Subsequent to December 31, 2015 , we: 

&#8211; 

acquired the $29.7 million build-to-suit industrial property in Detroit, Michigan pursuant to the forward commitment disclosed above; 

&#8211; 

repurchased 951,792 common shares at an average price of $7.48 per share under the share repurchase program announced in 2015; 

&#8211; 

received $6.7 million in connection with the sale of a non-consolidated property in Russellville, Arkansas; and 

&#8211; 

obtained $57.5 million 15-year non-recourse financing, which bears interest at a 5.2% fixed interest rate and is secured by the Richmond, Virginia property completed in 2015. 

Other 

Employees. &#32;As of December 31, 2015 , we had 54 full-time employees. Lexington Realty Trust is a master employer and employee costs are allocated to subsidiaries as applicable. 

Industry Segments. &#32;We primarily operate in one industry segment, single-tenant real estate assets. 

Web Site. &#32;Our Internet address is www.lxp.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through the Investors section of our web site or by contacting our Investor Relations Department, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Also posted on our web site, and available in print upon request of any shareholder to our Investor Relations Department, are our declaration of trust and amended and restated by-laws, charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Trustees, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our trustees, officers and employees (which contains our whistle blower procedures). Within the time period required by the SEC and the NYSE, we will post on our web site any amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to any of our trustees or executive officers. In addition, our web site includes information concerning purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive officers and trustees as well as disclosure relating to certain non-GAAP financial measures (as defined in the SEC's Regulation G) that we may make public orally, telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar means from time to time. Information contained on our web site or the web site of any other person is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report or any of our other filings or furnishings with the SEC. 

Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at Lexington Realty Trust, One Penn Plaza, Suite 4015, New York, New York 10119-4015, Attn: Investor Relations, by telephone: (212) 692-7200, or by e-mail: ir@lxp.com. 

Principal Executive Offices. &#32;Our principal executive offices are located at One Penn Plaza, Suite 4015, New York, New York 10119-4015; our telephone number is (212) 692-7200. 

NYSE CEO Certification. &#32;Our Chief Executive Officer made an unqualified certification to the NYSE with respect to our compliance with the NYSE corporate governance listing standards in 2015 . 

&#32;8 

