 Item 1. Business 

A. 

The Company 

Overview 

We are the leading global leaf tobacco supplier. We operate in over 30 &#32;countries on five &#32;continents and procure, finance, process, pack, store and ship leaf tobacco and other agri-products. Tobacco has been our principal focus since our founding in 1918. The largest portion of our business involves procuring and processing flue-cured and burley leaf tobacco for manufacturers of consumer tobacco products. We do not manufacture any consumer products. Rather, we support consumer product manufacturers by selling them processed raw products and performing related services for them. Our reportable segments for our flue-cured and burley tobacco operations are North America and Other Regions. We also have a third reportable segment, Other Tobacco Operations, which comprises our dark tobacco business, our oriental tobacco joint venture, and certain tobacco- and non-tobacco-related services. We generated approximately $2.1 billion &#32;in consolidated revenues and earned $186.1 million &#32;in total segment operating income in fiscal year 2016 . Universal Corporation is a holding company that operates through numerous directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries. Universal Corporation&#8217;s primary subsidiary is Universal Leaf Tobacco Company, Incorporated. See Exhibit 21, &#8220;Subsidiaries of the Registrant,&#8221; for additional subsidiary information. 

Key Operating Principles 

We believe that by following several key operating principles we can continue to produce good financial returns from our business and enhance shareholder value. These key operating principles are: 

&#8226; 

Strategic market position . We work closely with both our customers and suppliers to ensure that we deliver a product that meets our customers' needs while cultivating a strong, sustainable supplier base. We balance purchases of leaf tobacco against indicated customer demand and maintain global procurement and production operations to maximize supply chain efficiencies. 

&#8226; 

Strong local management . Having strong local management in all of our key supply origins allows us to identify and react to constantly shifting market conditions. Empowered and experienced local management, coupled with global coordination, affords us the flexibility and knowledge necessary to adapt quickly in order to continually deliver high quality, competitively-priced products and services. 

&#8226; 

Compliant products . Customers expect a sustainable supply of compliant, traceable, competitively-priced product, and we believe that we lead in delivering these products. Among other initiatives, we invest in training farmers in good agricultural practices that encompass crop quality, environmental stewardship and agricultural labor standards. 

&#8226; 

Diversified sources . We operate in over 30 &#32;countries on five &#32;continents and maintain a presence in all major flue-cured, burley, oriental, and dark air-cured tobacco origin markets. This global presence allows us to meet our customers' diverse leaf requirements while minimizing the effects of adverse crop conditions and other localized supply disruptions. 

&#8226; 

Financial strength . Financial strength is critical and enables us to fund our global operations efficiently and to facilitate investment when suitable opportunities arise. Management of liquidity, interest expense and capital costs provides us with a competitive advantage and affords us flexibility when responding to customer requirements and market changes. 

Additional Information 

Our website address is www.universalcorp.com. We post regulatory filings on this website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These filings include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4, and 5, and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC. Access to these filings on our website is available free of charge. Copies are also available, without charge, from Universal Corporation Investor Relations, 9201 Forest Hill Avenue, Richmond, VA 23235. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We also post our press releases on our website. Information on our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 

In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and charters for the Audit Committee, the Executive Committee, the Executive Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Pension Investment Committee, and the Finance Committee are available free of charge to shareholders and the public through the &#8220;Corporate Governance&#8221; section of our website. Printed copies of the foregoing are available to any shareholder upon written request to our Treasurer at the address set forth on the cover of this Annual Report or may be requested through our website, www.universalcorp.com. 

B. 

Description of Business 

General 

Our primary business is procuring, financing, processing, packing, storing, and shipping leaf tobacco for sale to manufacturers of consumer tobacco products. Procuring leaf tobacco involves contracting with, providing agronomy support to, and financing farmers in many origins. We do not manufacture cigarettes or other consumer tobacco products. Rather, we support consumer product manufacturers by selling them processed leaf tobacco and performing related services for them. Through various operating subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates located in tobacco-growing origins around the world, we contract, purchase, process, and sell flue-cured and burley tobaccos, as well as dark air-cured and oriental tobaccos. Flue-cured, burley, and oriental tobaccos are used principally in the manufacture of cigarettes, and dark air-cured tobaccos are used mainly in the manufacture of cigars, smokeless, and pipe tobacco products. We also provide value-added services to our customers, including blending, chemical and physical testing of tobacco, service cutting for select manufacturers, manufacturing reconstituted leaf tobacco, and managing just-in-time inventory. 

Several important operating factors characterize our company and our primary business, leaf tobacco: 

&#8226; 

Experience dealing with large numbers of farmers, 

&#8226; 

Expertise in delivering a sustainable supply of compliant, traceable, competitively-priced leaf tobacco, 

&#8226; 

Capability to meet unique customer requirements for style, volume and quality, 

&#8226; 

Longstanding customer relationships, 

&#8226; 

Presence in all major leaf tobacco sourcing areas, and 

&#8226; 

Financial strength and flexibility. 

In addition to our leaf tobacco business, we are involved in other agribusiness opportunities. We participate in a joint venture that supplies liquid nicotine, manufactured in the United States, to the vapor products industry. During fiscal year 2015, we entered a new business to produce high-quality dehydrated and juiced fruit and vegetable products. Initially, this business is focusing on producing value-added ingredients derived from sweet potatoes. &#32;&#32; When looking at new opportunities, we seek prospects where we believe we can earn an adequate return, leverage our assets and expertise, and enhance our farmer base. For example, with our food ingredients business, we identified a business that we believe will enhance the value of our company, build on our expertise as a business-to-business supplier of agricultural ingredients to companies that produce consumer products, and support tobacco farmers who grow sweet potatoes as a rotational crop. 

With respect to our leaf tobacco business, we generate our revenues from product sales of processed, packed tobacco that we source, from processing fees for tobacco owned by third parties, and from fees for other services. Sales to our five largest customers, with whom we have longstanding relationships, have accounted for more than 60% of our consolidated revenues for each of the past three fiscal years. Our sales consist primarily of flue-cured and burley tobaccos. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 , our flue-cured and burley operations accounted for 90% &#32;of our revenues and 94% &#32;of our segment operating income. 

We conduct our business in varying degrees in a number of countries, including Bangladesh, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Germany, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Italy, Malawi, Mexico, Mozambique, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Paraguay, the People&#8217;s Republic of China, the Philippines, Poland, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Tanzania, the United Arab Emirates, the United States, and Zimbabwe. In addition, our oriental tobacco joint venture, Socotab, L.L.C. has operations in Bulgaria, Greece, Macedonia, and Turkey. 

Because unprocessed, or &#8220;green,&#8221; leaf tobacco is a perishable product, timely processing is an essential service to our customers. Our processing of leaf tobacco includes grading in the factories, blending, removal of non-tobacco material, separation of leaf from the stems, drying, packing to precise moisture targets for proper aging, as well as temporary storage. Accomplishing these tasks generally requires investments in factories and machinery in areas where the tobacco is grown. Processed tobacco that has been properly packed can be stored by customers for a number of years prior to use, but most processed tobacco is used within two to three years. 

We are a major purchaser and processor in the chief exporting regions for flue-cured and burley tobacco throughout the world. Africa, Brazil, and the United States produce approximately 60% of the flue-cured and burley tobacco grown outside of China. We estimate that we have historically handled, through leaf sales or processing, between 35% and 45% of the annual production of such tobaccos in Africa, between 15% and 25% in Brazil, and between 25% and 35% in the United States. These percentages can change from year to year based on the size, price, and quality of the crops. As tobacco growing regions have expanded in Africa, we have handled a larger proportion of the crops there. We participate in the procurement, processing, storage, and sale of oriental tobacco through ownership of a 49% &#32;equity interest in Socotab, L.L.C., a leading supplier of oriental tobaccos. In addition, we maintain a presence, and in certain cases, a leading presence, in virtually all other major tobacco growing regions in the world. We believe that our leading position in the leaf tobacco industry is based on our operating presence in all of the major sourcing areas, our ability to meet customer style, volume, and quality requirements, our expertise in dealing with large numbers of farmers, our long-standing relationships with customers, our development of processing equipment and technologies, and our 

financial position. The efficiencies that we offer our customers, due to our established network of operational expertise and infrastructure on the ground and our ability to market most styles and grades of leaf to a diverse customer base, are also key to our success. 

We also have a leading position in worldwide dark tobacco markets. Our dark tobacco operations are located in most of the major producing countries and in other smaller markets. We operate in major dark tobacco producing countries, including the United States, the Dominican Republic, Indonesia, Paraguay, the Philippines, Nicaragua, and Brazil. Dark tobaccos are typically used in the manufacture of cigars, pipe tobacco, and smokeless tobacco products, and as components of certain &#8220;roll-your-own&#8221; cigarette products. 

Sales are made by our sales force and, to a much smaller degree, through the use of commissioned agents. Most customers are long-established tobacco product manufacturers. Customer contract arrangements vary around the world and include negotiated pricing as well as cost plus arrangements. Discussions of a customer&#8217;s longer-term needs may begin as early as one to two years in advance of a particular crop purchase. These discussions are key to our future crop production planning. Prior to planting each year, we use early customer indications for type, style, processing, and volume requirements for the upcoming season&#8217;s crop to help us determine our farmer contracting and grower input needs in our origins. We work with our farmers and customers continually throughout the crop season. As crops progress through the growing season, customers will inspect the crop, and a customer&#8217;s early indications may be refined based upon emerging crop qualities and quantities and market pricing expectations. Ultimately, purchase agreements specifying quantity, quality, grade and price are executed, leading to inventory allocations of harvested green or processed leaf that we have acquired. 

In the majority of the countries where we operate, we contract directly with tobacco farmers or tobacco farmer cooperatives. In most countries outside the United States, we advance seed, fertilizer, and other agricultural inputs to farmers. These advances are repaid by farmers with the tobacco they produce. We are dedicated to promoting a sustainable farmer base and provide our farmers with agronomy support. Our Good Agricultural Practices programs educate farmers in such matters as the reduction of non-tobacco related materials, product traceability, environmental sustainability, agricultural labor standards, and social responsibility. In Malawi and Zimbabwe, we also purchase some tobacco under auction systems. 

Our foreign operations are subject to international business risks, including unsettled political conditions, expropriation, import and export restrictions, exchange controls, and currency fluctuations. During the tobacco season in many of the countries listed above, we advance funds, guarantee local loans, or do both, each in substantial amounts, for the eventual purchase of tobacco. The majority of these seasonal advances and loan guarantees mature in one year or less upon the farmers&#8217; delivery of contracted tobaccos. Most advances to farmers are denominated in local currency, which is a source of foreign currency exchange rate risk. Most tobacco sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, which reduces our foreign currency exchange risk after the tobacco has been purchased. See Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; for more information about our foreign currency exchange and other risks. 

For a discussion of recent developments and trends in our business, along with factors that may affect our business, see Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,&#8221; and Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

Seasonality 

Our operations are seasonal in nature. Tobacco in Brazil is usually purchased from January through July, while buying in Malawi, Mozambique, and other African countries typically begins around April and continues through November. Farmers begin to sell U.S. flue-cured tobacco in late July, and the marketing season lasts for approximately four months. 

We normally operate each of our processing plants for seven to nine months of the year. During this period for each region, inventories of green tobacco, inventories of processed tobacco, and trade accounts receivable normally reach peak levels in succession. We normally finance this expansion of current assets with cash, short-term borrowings from banks, and customer advances, and these funding sources normally reach their peak usage in each region during its respective purchasing or processing period. Our balance sheet at our fiscal year end reflects seasonal expansions in working capital in South America and Central America. Our financial performance is also impacted by the seasonality of our business. As a result of customer shipment preferences, we have seen a larger portion of our volumes shipped in the second half of our fiscal year. These changes in customer shipment schedules or changes in crop timing in a season can also shift recognition of revenue in a given fiscal year. 

Customers 

A material part of our business is dependent upon a few customers. Our five largest customers are Philip Morris International, Inc., British American Tobacco plc, Imperial Brands plc, Japan Tobacco, Inc. and China Tobacco International, Inc. In the aggregate, these customers have accounted for more than 60% of our consolidated revenues for each of the past three fiscal years. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 , each of Philip Morris International, Inc. and British American Tobacco plc, including their respective affiliates, accounted for 10% or more of our revenues, while Imperial Brands plc, Japan Tobacco, Inc. and China Tobacco International, Inc. each accounted for between 7% and 10% of our revenues. The loss of, or substantial reduction in business from, any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our results. We have longstanding relationships with all of these customers. 

We had commitments from customers for approximately $516 million &#32;of the tobacco in our inventories at March 31, 2016 . Based upon historical experience, we expect that at least 90% of such orders will be delivered during fiscal year 2017 . Most of our product requires shipment via trucks and oceangoing vessels to reach customer destinations. Delays in the delivery of orders can result from such factors as truck and container availability, port access and capacity, vessel scheduling, and changing customer requirements for shipment. 

As more fully described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, we recognize revenue from the sale of tobacco when title and risk of loss is transferred to our customer. Individual shipments may be large, and since the customer typically specifies shipping dates, our financial results may vary significantly between reporting periods due to timing of sales. In some markets, including the United States, Italy, and Brazil, we process tobacco that is owned by our customers, and we recognize the revenue for that service when the processing is completed. 

Competition 

Competition among leaf tobacco suppliers is based on the ability to meet customer specifications in the growing, buying, processing, and financing of tobacco, and on the price charged for products and services. Competition varies depending on the market or country involved. The number of competitors varies from country to country, but there is competition in most areas to buy and sell the available tobacco. Our principal competitor is Alliance One International, Inc. (&#8220;Alliance One&#8221;). Alliance One operates in most of the countries where we operate. Based on our estimates, we do not believe that worldwide market shares differ substantially between the two companies. Most of our major customers are partially vertically integrated, and thus also compete with us for the purchase of leaf tobacco in several of the major markets. 

In most major markets, smaller competitors are very active. These competitors typically have lower overhead requirements and provide less support to customers and farmers. Due to their lower cost structures, they can often offer a price on products that is lower than our price. However, we believe that we provide quality controls and farm programs that add value for our customers in an increasingly regulated world and make our products highly desirable. For example, we have established worldwide farm programs designed to prevent non-tobacco related materials from being introduced into the green tobacco delivered to our factories. In addition, we have established programs for sustainable tobacco production which include promoting Good Agricultural Practices that encompass crop quality, environmental stewardship, and agricultural labor practices. We believe that our major customers increasingly require these services and that our programs increase the quality and value of the products and services we offer. We also believe that our customers value the security of supply that we are able to provide due to our strong relationships with our farmer base and our global footprint. 

Reportable Segments 

We evaluate the performance of our leaf tobacco business by geographic region, although the dark air-cured and oriental tobacco businesses are each evaluated on the basis of their worldwide operations. Performance of the oriental tobacco operations is evaluated based on our equity in the pretax earnings of our affiliate. Under this structure, we have the following primary operating segments: North America, South America, Africa, Europe, Asia, Dark Air-Cured, Oriental, and Special Services. North America, South America, Africa, Europe, and Asia are primarily involved in flue-cured and burley leaf tobacco operations for supply to cigarette manufacturers. Our Dark Air-Cured group supplies dark air-cured tobacco principally to manufacturers of cigars, pipe tobacco, and smokeless tobacco products, and our Oriental business supplies oriental tobacco to cigarette manufacturers. Our Special Services group provides laboratory services, including physical and chemical product testing, e-cigarette and e-liquid testing, and smoke testing for customers. Our liquid nicotine joint venture and our fruit and vegetable ingredients business are also included in the Special Services group. 

The five &#32;regional operating segments serving our cigarette manufacturer customers share similar characteristics in the nature of their products and services, production processes, class of customer, product distribution methods, and regulatory environment. Based on the applicable accounting guidance, four &#32;of the regions &#8211; South America, Africa, Europe, and Asia &#8211; are aggregated into a single reporting segment, Other Regions, because they also have similar economic characteristics. North America is reported as an individual operating segment, because its economic characteristics differ from the other regions, generally because its operations require lower working capital investments for crop financing and inventory. The Dark Air-Cured, Oriental, and Special Services segments, which have differing characteristics in some of the categories mentioned above, are reported together as Other Tobacco Operations, because each is below the measurement threshold for separate reporting. 

Financial Information about Segments 

Our North America and Other Regions reportable segments, which represent our flue-cured and burley tobacco operations, accounted for 17% &#32;and 73% &#32;of our revenues and 17% &#32;and 77% &#32;of our segment operating income, respectively, in fiscal years 2016 &#32;and 2015 . Our Other Tobacco Operations reportable segment accounted for 10% &#32;of our revenues and 6% &#32;of our segment operating income in fiscal year 2016 . Sales and other operating revenues and operating income attributable to our reportable segments for each of the last three fiscal years, along with segment assets for each reportable segment at March 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , are set forth in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Information with 

respect to the geographic distribution of our revenues and long-lived assets is also set forth in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 

C. 

Employees 

We employed over 24,000 &#32;employees throughout the world during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 . We estimated this figure because the majority of our personnel are seasonal employees. 

D. 

Research and Development 

We did not expend material amounts for research and development during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 , 2015 , or 2014 . 

E. 

Patents, etc. 

We hold no material patents, licenses, franchises, or concessions. 

F. 

Government Regulation, Environmental Matters, and Other Matters 

Our business is subject to general governmental regulation in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business. Such regulation includes, but is not limited to, matters relating to environmental protection. To date, governmental provisions regulating the discharge of material into the environment have not had a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. See Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; for a discussion of government regulations and other factors that may affect our business. 

