 Item 1. Business Overview of Ocular Therapeutix 

Overview 

We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of innovative therapies for diseases and conditions of the eye using our proprietary hydrogel platform technology. Our bioresorbable hydrogel-based product candidates are designed to provide sustained delivery of therapeutic agents to the eye. Our hydrogel is a bioresorbable proprietary formulation of polyethylene glycol, or PEG, which when constituted with water takes on a gelatinous consistency. The product candidates in our development pipeline have the potential to overcome many of the significant limitations of existing eye drop based therapies for ophthalmic diseases and conditions affecting the front of the eye by replacing the current standard of care regimen of weeks or months of eye drop therapy with as little as a single product application. Our lead product candidates are DEXTENZA and OTX-TP, sustained-release, drug-eluting intracanalicular depots which are inserted into the canaliculus through a natural opening called the punctum located in the inner portion of the eyelid near the nose. Our intracanalicular depots (also referred to as drug-eluting depots or sustained-release depots) combine our hydrogel technology with U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approved therapeutic agents with the goal of providing sustained delivery of drug to the eye. We also have an intravitreal hydrogel depot, which is in preclinical development for the treatment of diseases and conditions of the back of the eye, including wet age-related macular degeneration, or wet AMD. Our intravitreal depot is designed to be delivered via intravitreal injection to release therapeutic agents, such as antibodies to vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, over a sustained period. In addition to our ongoing product development, we have launched our first commercial product, ReSure Sealant, a hydrogel-based ophthalmic wound sealant approved by the FDA in 2014 to seal corneal incisions following cataract surgery. 

Poor patient compliance with eye drop regimens and the need for frequent administration of eye drops at high drug concentrations due to rapid washout by the tears can create challenges in the successful management of ocular diseases and conditions. For example, poor patient compliance can lead to diminished efficacy and disease progression and high drug concentrations can create side effects. We are developing therapies to replace standard of care eye drop regimens with our innovative sustained-release, drug-eluting intracanalicular depots, which we formerly referred to as punctum plugs. Our intracanalicular depots are designed to release a therapeutic agent to the surface of the eye over an extended period. The goal for our intracanalicular depot product candidates is to change the management of many front-of-the-eye diseases and conditions from frequent, pulsed eye drop therapy, characterized by significant variations in drug concentration over time, to longer term, sustained delivery of therapeutic agents to improve patient outcomes. 

Our most advanced product candidate, DEXTENZA, incorporates the FDA-approved corticosteroid dexamethasone as an active pharmaceutical ingredient into a hydrogel-based drug-eluting intracanalicular depot. DEXTENZA is in Phase 3 clinical development for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain. In September 2015, we submitted to the FDA a New Drug Application, or NDA, for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular pain. The FDA has accepted the NDA for filing and established a target action date under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, of July 24, 2016. We have completed two Phase 3 clinical trials of DEXTENZA for post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain. The data from these two completed Phase 3 clinical trials and a prior Phase 2 clinical trial are being used to support our NDA for post-surgical ocular pain. In October 2015, we initiated a third Phase 3 clinical trial for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain. We expect to have topline efficacy data available from this third trial in the second half of 2016. If the results from this third trial are favorable and subject to receiving approval for the pain indication pursuant to the initial NDA, we plan to submit an NDA supplement for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation. DEXTENZA is also in Phase 3 clinical development for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis. In October 2015, we announced topline results of our first Phase 3 clinical trial for allergic conjunctivitis. We initiated enrollment of our second Phase 3 clinical trial for allergic conjunctivitis in November 2015. Finally, DEXTENZA is in Phase 2 

&#160;

clinical development for the treatment of inflammatory dry eye disease. We announced topline results from an exploratory Phase 2 clinical trial for this indication in December 2015. 

Our second product candidate, OTX-TP, incorporates travoprost, an FDA-approved prostaglandin analog that reduces elevated intraocular pressure, as its active pharmaceutical ingredient into a hydrogel-based drug-eluting intracanalicular depot. OTX-TP is in Phase 2 clinical development for glaucoma and ocular hypertension. We reported topline results from a Phase 2b clinical trial for this indication in October 2015. We expect to have an end of Phase 2 meeting with the FDA in the second quarter of 2016 and initiate a Phase 3 clinical trial of OTX-TP in the third quarter of 2016. 

In addition to DEXTENZA and OTX-TP, we are engaged in the preclinical development of our intravitreal hydrogel depot administered via intravitreal injection to address the large and growing markets for diseases and conditions of the back of the eye. Our initial development efforts are focused on the use of our sustained-release hydrogel depot in combination with anti-angiogenic drugs, such as protein-based anti-VEGF drugs or small molecule anti-angiogenic drugs, such as TKIs, for the treatment of wet AMD. Our initial goal for this program is to provide sustained release of an anti-angiogenic protein or a TKI drug over a four to six month period following administration of a bioresorbable hydrogel incorporating the drug by an injection into the vitreous humor, thereby reducing the frequency of the current monthly or bi-monthly intravitreal injection regimen for wet AMD and other back-of-the-eye diseases. We also have a pipeline of earlier stage intracanalicular depot product candidates, including OTX-MP, which has completed a Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating safety and pharmacokinetics in patients following cataract surgery. 

Following our receipt of FDA approval for ReSure Sealant, we commercially launched this product in the United States in 2014 through a network of ophthalmology focused distributors. ReSure Sealant is approved to seal corneal incisions following cataract surgery and is the first and only surgical sealant to be approved by the FDA for ophthalmic use. In the pivotal clinical trials that formed the basis for FDA approval, ReSure Sealant provided superior wound closure and a better safety profile than sutured closure. We plan to use the limited revenues we expect from sales of ReSure Sealant to contribute to the funding of our product development pipeline and commercialization efforts. 

Our clinical stage product candidates and our marketed product are based on a proprietary bioresorbable hydrogel technology platform that uses PEG as a key component. Bioresorbable materials gradually break down in the body into non-toxic, water soluble compounds that are cleared by normal biological processes. PEG is used in many pharmaceutical products and is widely considered to be safe and biocompatible. Our technology platform allows us to tailor the physical properties, drug release profiles and bioresorption rates of our hydrogels to meet the needs of specific clinical indications. We have used this platform to engineer each of our intracanalicular depot product candidates, ReSure Sealant and our intravitreal depot. Our technical capabilities include a deep understanding of the polymer chemistry of PEG-based hydrogels and the design of the specialized manufacturing processes required to achieve a reliable, preservative free and pure product. 

Our product candidates target large and growing markets. Transparency Market Research, a provider of business information reports and services, estimates that the annual worldwide market for ophthalmic medications was $16 billion as of 2012 and is expected to increase to $21.6 billion by 2018. 

We have in-licensed all of the patent rights and a significant portion of the technology for ReSure Sealant and our hydrogel platform technology product candidates from Incept, LLC, or Incept, an intellectual property holding company. Amarpreet Sawhney, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is a general partner of Incept and has a 50% ownership stake in Incept. 

Our founders and management team have significant experience in developing and commercializing medical products for other companies using bioresorbable hydrogel technology, including FDA-approved and currently marketed medical products such as DuraSeal Dural Sealant &#174; (marketed by Integra Lifesciences, Inc.), a sealant for cranial and spine surgery, and Mynx &#174; (marketed by Cardinal Health, Inc.), a sealant for femoral artery 

&#160;

punctures after angiography and angioplasty. Dr. Sawhney was the founder, President and Chief Executive Officer of Confluent Surgical, Inc., the company that developed and commercialized the DuraSeal Dural Sealant and was the technology founder of AccessClosure, Inc., the company that developed and commercialized Mynx. 

The following table summarizes the status of our key product development programs and our marketed product. We currently hold worldwide exclusive commercial rights to the core technology underlying all of our products in development. 

&#160;

Our Strategy 

Our goal is to change the management of many ophthalmic diseases and conditions from frequent, pulsed therapies, characterized by significant variations in drug concentration over time, to longer term, sustained delivery of therapeutic agents to improve patient outcomes. The key elements of our strategy to achieve this goal are to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Create proprietary solutions for ophthalmic diseases and conditions based on our bioresorbable hydrogel technology platform combined with FDA-approved therapeutic agents to improve the delivery of these agents . We are directing all of our development efforts towards applying our proprietary PEG-based bioresorbable hydrogel technology platform to product candidates that are designed to provide sustained delivery of therapeutic agents to the eye using active pharmaceutical ingredients that are currently used in ophthalmic drugs approved by the FDA and that are or are expected to become available on a generic basis prior to anticipated launch dates. Our technology uses a proprietary composition of PEG to make bioresorbable hydrogels that we specifically engineer for each of our product candidates. By focusing on the development of products based on FDA-approved therapeutic agents, we believe that we can advance potential products efficiently and predictably through the development cycle based on well-defined clinical and regulatory approval pathways. We believe this strategy of selecting FDA-approved therapeutic agents and improving their delivery represents an attractive risk-reward profile relative to new drug development. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Improve patient compliance and management of front-of-the-eye diseases and conditions by replacing standard of care eye drop therapies with our intracanalicular depot product candidates . We are designing and developing innovative product candidates to address large markets that are currently served by a variety of competing products, all of which we believe have limitations. We are directing a significant portion of our efforts to address many of the limitations of eye drops, while still delivering the drugs to the ocular surface. Our technology platform enables sustained drug delivery to the eye, which we believe can lead to increased compliance, enhanced efficacy and reduced side effects for our product candidates as compared to existing therapies. We are designing our sustained delivery product candidates so that following a single administration of our drug-eluting intracanalicular depot for an acute condition or administration every several months for chronic conditions, a patient can receive continuous exposure to a therapeutic agent over a sustained period. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Rapidly complete clinical development of and seek marketing approval for our most advanced intracanalicular depot product candidates for diseases and conditions of the front of the eye . We are focusing on completing the clinical development of our most advanced product candidates, including DEXTENZA for post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain and allergic conjunctivitis and OTX-TP for glaucoma and ocular hypertension. We believe that the well-defined clinical and regulatory approval pathways for these product candidates, and the availability of large patient populations, will enable us to complete clinical development in a capital and time efficient manner. In September 2015, we submitted to the FDA an NDA for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular pain. The FDA has accepted the NDA for filing and established a target action date under PDUFA of July 24, 2016. If the results of our third Phase 3 clinical trial of DEXTENZA are favorable and subject to receiving approval for the post-surgical ocular pain indication pursuant to the initial NDA, we plan to submit an NDA supplement for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation. We reported topline efficacy results from the first of two planned Phase 3 clinical trials of DEXTENZA for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis and initiated patient enrollment in a second Phase 3 clinical trial of DEXTENZA for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis in the fourth quarter of 2015. We reported topline efficacy results from a Phase 2b clinical trial of OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension in October 2015. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Apply our sustained-release intracanalicular depot technology for the treatment of additional diseases and conditions of the front of the eye . We are exploring the potential use of our intracanalicular depots in other front-of-the-eye diseases and conditions, such as inflammatory dry eye disease and ocular infections, incorporating active pharmaceutical ingredients that are approved by the FDA as topical ophthalmic eye drops. We have completed an exploratory Phase 2 clinical trial of DEXTENZA for inflammatory dry eye disease. Subject to further advancing our DEXTENZA and OTX-TP clinical trials, we may allocate clinical development resources to additional clinical testing of our OTX-MP intracanalicular depot candidate, which incorporates the antibiotic moxifloxacin as an active pharmaceutical ingredient, for the treatment of ocular infections. We may also pursue the development of a drug-eluting intracanalicular depot that delivers cyclosporine for the treatment of dry eye disease following a potential induction therapy using DEXTENZA. In addition, we may explore whether FDA-approved therapeutic agents that are not well suited to delivery by eye drops can be delivered by our intracanalicular depots. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Pursue development of our intravitreal depot and other technologies for back-of-the-eye diseases and conditions . We are developing a hydrogel-based drug delivery depot designed to release anti-angiogenic drugs, including anti-VEGF drugs, over a sustained period following administration by an intravitreal injection to address the large and growing markets for diseases and conditions of the back of the eye, including wet AMD. Our goal for this intravitreal depot is to provide sustained release of the anti-angiogenic drugs over a four to six month period, thereby reducing the frequency of the current monthly or bi-monthly intravitreal injection regimen. We believe that less frequent injections will be more convenient for patients and may reduce the risk of infection and other potential side effects associated with each injection. We also believe that our drug delivery depot could potentially provide a more consistent level of therapeutic agent compared with existing therapies. In 2014, sales of the most 

&#160;

&#160; commonly prescribed anti-VEGF drugs approved for the treatment of wet AMD totaled approximately $3.5 billion in the United States. We are working with several pharmaceutical companies with anti-VEGF compounds to explore the feasibility of delivering their compounds using our intravitreal depot. We have established in preclinical tests the compatibility of our technology with these compounds and observed sustained delivery over four to six months in vitro and initial evidence of tolerability of the drug-loaded hydrogel depot. We believe that results to date support the continuing preclinical development of this product candidate. We plan to explore the possibility of broader collaborations with pharmaceutical companies for the development and commercialization of protein-based anti-VEGF drugs in combination with our hydrogel depot. We are also exploring the delivery of small molecule drugs, such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors, or TKIs, in our hydrogel depot. We are conducting preclinical research on a TKI candidate that we believe may be optimal for this program. We are also evaluating in early exploratory research additional opportunities beyond anti-VEGF drugs to utilize our hydrogel depot for back-of-the-eye diseases. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Maximize commercial potential of all products for which we receive marketing approval . We hold worldwide commercial rights to each of our product candidates. We plan to prioritize our development, regulatory and commercialization efforts in the United States. We generally expect to retain commercial rights in the United States to any of our sustained-release drug delivery product candidates for front-of- the-eye diseases and conditions for which we receive marketing approval. We may also consider co-promotion and other partnering arrangements in the United States as well. Outside the United States, we expect to utilize a variety of types of collaboration, distribution and other marketing arrangements with one or more third parties to commercialize any products of ours that receive marketing approval. Eye Disease 

The front of the human eye possesses focusing elements, consisting of the cornea on the surface of the eye, the lens and the aqueous humor, which is a transparent gelatinous fluid that fills the anterior and posterior chambers between the lens and the cornea. The tissue surrounding the eye also serves important functions. There is a natural opening, called a punctum, located in the inner portion of each eyelid near the nose. The puncta open into nasolacrimal ducts, which collect and drain tears. The conjunctiva is the membrane covering the inside of the eyelids and the white part of the eye. It helps to protect the eye from microbes and to lubricate the eye. The back of the eye contains the retina, which is the light sensing layer of tissue, the vitreous humor, which is a transparent gel that fills the vitreous chamber between the lens and the retina, and the optic nerve, which transmits visual information from the retina to the brain. Eye disease can be caused by many factors and can affect both the front and back of the eye. Diseases and conditions affecting the front of the eye are generally treated either with surgery or with medications delivered to the ocular surface by eye drops. Intravitreal injections are typically used to deliver medications to the back of the eye. 

&#160;

Cross Section of Eye &#160; Tear Drainage System &#160; &#160;

Front-of-the-Eye Diseases and Conditions 

Ocular Inflammation and Pain 

Ocular inflammation and pain are common conditions caused by a variety of factors, including ophthalmic surgery, allergic conjunctivitis and dry eye disease. 

Post-surgical Ocular Inflammation and Pain 

Ocular inflammation and pain are common side effects following ophthalmic surgery. Frequently performed ophthalmic surgeries include cataract, refractive vitreoretinal, cornea and glaucoma procedures. Physicians prescribe anti-inflammatory drugs, such as corticosteroids, which are typically administered through eye drops multiple times per day, following ocular surgery as the standard of care. These drugs improve patient comfort and also accelerate recovery through disruption of the inflammatory cascade resulting in decreased inflammation and reduced activity of the immune system. Physicians also frequently prescribe non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs, as adjunctive or combination therapy to supplement the use of corticosteroids. If left untreated, inflammation of the eye may result in further ocular complications, including pain, scarring and vision loss. Market Scope has estimated that approximately 5.3 million ocular surgeries were to be performed in the United States in 2015. 

Allergic Conjunctivitis 

Allergic conjunctivitis is an inflammatory disease of the conjunctiva resulting primarily from a reaction to allergy-causing substances such as pollen or pet dander. The primary sign of this inflammation is redness and the primary symptom is acute itching. Allergic conjunctivitis ranges in clinical severity from relatively mild, common forms to more severe forms that can cause impaired vision. According to a study on the management of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis published in 2012 in the peer-reviewed journal Acta Ophthalmologica , allergic conjunctivitis affects 15% to 40% of the U.S. population. The first line of defense against allergic conjunctivitis is avoidance of the allergen. If this is not successful, physicians typically prescribe a mast cell stabilizer or antihistamine. These treatments act to reduce the signs and symptoms of the early phase allergic reaction. For the subset of patients with chronic or more severe forms of allergic conjunctivitis, antihistamines and mast cell stabilizers are often not sufficient to treat their signs and symptoms. These refractory patients are frequently treated with topical corticosteroids administered by eye drops. 

Dry Eye Disease 

Dry eye disease affects the ocular surface and is characterized by dryness, inflammation, pain, discomfort and irritation. The current standard of care for moderate to severe dry eye disease is the use of artificial tears and topical anti-inflammatory and immune modulating drugs administered by eye drops. The anti-inflammatory and immune modulating prescription drug market for the treatment of moderate to severe dry eye disease consists of Restasis, marketed by Allergan, and off-label use of corticosteroids and NSAIDs. Restasis is an ophthalmic formulation of the immune modulating drug cyclosporine. Restasis is a topical immunomodulator indicated to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca. Based on our review of industry sources, we estimate that approximately 20 million people in the United States have dry eye disease, including approximately five million people who suffer from moderate to severe dry eye disease. 

Market Data 

According to IMS Health data, approximately 20.6 million prescriptions were filled in the United States in 2015 for anti-inflammatory drugs administered by eye drops for ocular diseases and conditions, resulting in sales of approximately $3.1 billion. This consisted of approximately 8.9 million prescriptions and $795 million in sales for single-agent corticosteroids, 3.9 million prescriptions and $377 million in sales for NSAIDs, 4.6 million prescriptions and $310 million in sales for corticosteroid and antibiotic combination products and approximately 

&#160;

3.3 million prescriptions and $1.6 billion in sales of Restasis for dry eye disease. According to IMS Health data, approximately 7.1 million anti-allergy eye drop prescriptions were filled in the United States in 2015, resulting in sales of approximately $976 million. The steroid market for eye drops to treat ocular diseases and conditions consists of both branded and generic products. Branded steroids include Lotemax and Alrex (loteprednol etabonate) marketed by Bausch &#38; Lomb and Durezol (difluprednate) marketed by Alcon. Commonly used generic steroids include prednisolone, dexamethasone and fluorometholone. 

Glaucoma 

Glaucoma is a progressive and highly individualized disease in which elevated levels of intraocular pressure are associated with damage to the optic nerve, which results in irreversible vision loss. According to the World Health Organization, glaucoma is the second leading cause of blindness in the world. Ocular hypertension is characterized by elevated levels of intraocular pressure without any optic nerve damage. Patients with ocular hypertension are at high risk of developing glaucoma. 

In a healthy eye, fluid is continuously produced and drained to maintain pressure equilibrium and provide nutrients to the ocular tissue. Excess fluid production or insufficient drainage of fluid in the front of the eye or a combination of these problems causes increased intraocular pressure. The increased intraocular pressure associated with uncontrolled glaucoma results in degeneration of the optic nerve in the back of the eye. Once glaucoma develops, it is a chronic condition that requires life-long treatment. According to the Glaucoma Research Foundation, approximately 2.2 million people in the United States suffer from glaucoma. Open-angle glaucoma, in which the space between the iris and the cornea through which fluid drains is relatively wide, is the most common form of glaucoma. According to the Glaucoma Research Foundation, open-angle glaucoma accounts for at least 90% of all glaucoma cases. 

In order to lower intraocular pressure, physicians typically initiate treatment by prescribing drugs administered as eye drops. These drugs either decrease fluid production or enhance fluid drainage. The classes of topical drugs used to treat glaucoma include prostaglandin analogs, or PGAs, beta-blockers, alpha-adrenergic agonists and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. PGAs are the most widely prescribed class of drugs for glaucoma and are considered first-line glaucoma treatment. PGAs reduce intraocular pressure by enhancing the clearance and drainage of ocular fluid. The most frequently prescribed PGA is once-daily latanoprost, although travoprost, unoprostone and bimatoprost are also frequently used in the management of open-angle glaucoma. In cases where glaucoma is not easily managed by a drug regimen, surgical or laser treatments may be undertaken. 

Market Data 

According to IMS Health data, approximately 34 million prescriptions were filled in the United States in 2015 for drugs administered by eye drops for the treatment of glaucoma, resulting in sales of approximately $2.7 billion. A typical prescription provides approximately one month of treatment. We expect prescription volume to grow, in large part as a result of the aging population. According to IMS Health, PGAs account for approximately half of the prescription volume in the glaucoma market. The market for drugs administered by eye drops for the treatment of glaucoma consists of both branded and generic products. Branded products have maintained premium pricing and significant market share. These products include Travatan Z (travoprost) marketed by Alcon and Lumigan (bimatoprost) marketed by Allergan. The relevant patents covering travoprost expired in December 2014. Commonly used generic drugs include latanoprost and timolol. 

Bacterial Infection 

Bacterial conjunctivitis is one of the most common forms of ocular infection. It is an inflammatory disease of the eye caused by infection with bacteria such as Haemophilus influenzae , Streptococcus pneumoniae or Staphylococcus aureus . While bacterial conjunctivitis typically resolves on its own over time, it is often treated with antibiotics which can speed recovery, reduce relapse and potentially prevent important sight-threatening complications. 

&#160;

Ophthalmic bacterial infections are treated with a range of antibiotics, both branded and generic. One such example is moxifloxacin, a fourth generation fluoroquinolone marketed by Alcon under the brand names Vigamox and Moxeza. Fourth generation fluoroquinolones are favored because they offer the highest potency against gram-positive organisms while maintaining the gram-negative efficacy of previous generation antibiotics. In addition, the increased lipophilicity, or solubility in fatty tissue, of moxifloxacin allows for improved performance in ophthalmic tissue penetration studies compared to other fluoroquinolones. The relevant patents covering moxifloxacin expired in March 2014. 

Market Data 

According to IMS Health data, approximately 18.1 million prescriptions were filled in the United States in 2015 for ophthalmic antibiotics administered by eye drops, resulting in sales of approximately $697 million. 

The Use of Eye Drops and their Limitations 

Eye drops are widely used to deliver medications directly to the ocular surface and to intraocular tissue in the front of the eye. Eye drops are administrable by the patient or care provider, inexpensive to produce and treat the local tissue. However, eye drops have significant limitations, especially when used for chronic diseases or when requiring frequent administration, including: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Lack of patient compliance . Eye drops require frequent administration. For example, steroids for ophthalmic use require administration as frequently as four to six times daily and require tapered dosing over the course of the therapy. As a result, patient compliance with required dosing regimens frequently suffers. According to a published third-party study, more than 50% of glaucoma patients discontinue prostaglandin therapy and do not refill prescriptions as required within six months of initiating therapy. Poor patient compliance can lead to diminished efficacy and disease progression. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Difficulty in administration . Eye drops are difficult to administer for many patients, in particular the elderly. Difficulty in self-administering eye drops may lead to bacterial contamination in the bottle resulting from incorrect usage, limited accuracy administering the drops directly into the eye and the potential washout of drops from the eye. We believe that this also may play a large role in lack of patient compliance and resulting diminished efficacy of treatment. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Need for high concentrations . After eye drops are administered to the ocular surface, the tear film rapidly renews. Most topically applied solutions are washed away by new tear fluid within 15 to 30 seconds. Because contact time with the ocular surface is short, less than 5% of the applied dose actually penetrates to reach intraocular tissues. As a result, eye drops generally require frequent administration at high drug concentrations to deliver a meaningful amount of drug to the eye. This pulsed therapy results in significant variations in drug concentrations over a treatment period, which we refer to as peak and valley dosing. At peak levels, the high concentrations can result in side effects, such as burning, stinging, redness of the clear membrane covering the white part of the eye, referred to as hyperemia, and spikes in intraocular pressure, which may lead to drug- induced glaucoma. At low concentration levels, the drug may not be effective, thus allowing the disease to progress. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Side effects of preservatives . To guard against contamination, many eye drops are formulated with antimicrobial preservatives, most commonly benzalkonium chloride, or BAK. Patients on long term or chronic therapy, such as glaucoma patients, often suffer reactions, which have been linked to BAK, including burning, stinging, hyperemia, irritation and eye dryness. Less frequently, conjunctivitis or corneal damage may result. As a result of these limitations, eye drops are often suboptimal as a therapeutic option for the treatment of many diseases and conditions of the front of the eye. 

&#160;

Back-of-the-Eye Diseases and Conditions 

There are a range of back-of-the-eye diseases and conditions that adversely affect vision. One of the principal back-of-the-eye conditions is wet AMD, a serious disease of the central portion of the retina, known as the macula that is responsible for detailed central vision and color perception. Wet AMD is characterized by abnormal new blood vessel formation, referred to as neovascularization, which results in blood vessel leakage and retinal distortion. If untreated, neovascularization in wet AMD patients typically results in formation of a scar under the macular region of the retina. The current standard of care for wet AMD are drugs that target VEGF, one of several proteins involved in neovascularization. 

Wet AMD is the leading cause of blindness in people over the age of 55 in the United States and the European Union. According to a study on the burden of AMD published in 2006 in the peer-reviewed journal Current Opinion in Ophthalmology , approximately 1.2 million people in the United States suffer from wet AMD. In addition, AMD Alliance International reports that approximately 200,000 new cases of wet AMD arise each year in the United States. The incidence of wet AMD increases substantially with age, and we expect that the number of cases of wet AMD will increase with growth of the elderly population in the United States. The anti-VEGF market for the treatment of wet AMD consists predominantly of two drugs that are approved for marketing and primarily prescribed for the treatment of wet AMD, Lucentis marketed in the United States by Genentech and Eylea marketed in the United States by Regeneron, and off-label use of the cancer therapy Avastin. In 2014, sales of Lucentis and Eylea totaled approximately $3.5 billion in the United States. 

Because eye drops are unable to carry effective drug concentrations to the back-of-the-eye, intravitreal injections are used to deliver medications to this location. However, the frequency of intravitreal injections can be a significant burden on patients, caregivers and clinicians. For example, the current treatment protocol for wet AMD involves monthly or bi-monthly injections. Intravitreal injections can lead to patient discomfort, a transient increase in intraocular pressure, and ocular inflammation and infection. Although serious adverse event rates after treatment with anti-VEGF compounds are low, intravitreal injections can result in severe complications and damage to the retina and other structures of the eye, such as ocular hemorrhage and tears in the retinal pigment epithelium. 

Ocular Wound Closure 

According to the World Health Organization, cataracts are the leading cause of visual impairment eventually progressing to blindness. According to the American Academy of Ophthalmology Cataract and Anterior Segment Panel&#146;s 2011 Preferred Practice Pattern Guidelines, cataract extraction is the most commonly performed eye surgery in the United States. Market Scope has estimated that in 2015 there were to be approximately 3.8 million cataract extractions performed in the United States. 

A cataract is a clouding of the lens inside the front of the eye. During cataract surgery, a patient&#146;s cloudy natural lens is removed and replaced with a prosthetic intraocular lens. Clear corneal incisions that allow entry to the eye are the preferred method for performing cataract surgery. The most common post-surgical approach is to allow the incisions to self-seal, or close, through normal biological processes. However, self-sealing incisions can open spontaneously, especially within 12 to 24 hours following surgery, when intraocular pressure fluctuates or as a result of the application of external pressure or manipulation. In addition, incisions that are left to self-seal are often associated with fluid leakage, which can sometimes result in complications. Complications from fluid leakage include the development of hypotony, or low intraocular pressure, which can lead to corneal decompensation and vision loss, as well as the potential for infection. The implanted intraocular lens also may shift in position due to hypotony, leading to poor visual outcomes following surgery. 

Sutures are the most widely used alternative method of wound closure. However, sutures do not completely prevent fluid leakage, are time-consuming to place and have been associated with patient discomfort and corneal distortion. An additional visit may be required to remove sutures, thus adding time, inconvenience and expense to the surgical process. Sutures may also lead to astigmatism, a distortion of the cornea that can result from improper suture technique. These shortcomings limit the use of sutures in ophthalmic surgery. In a 2012 survey 

&#160;

of ophthalmologists in the United States conducted by Lachman Consulting LLC, a healthcare consulting firm, respondents indicated that they use sutures in approximately 14% of cataract surgeries. 

The Ocular Therapeutix Approach 

Our Hydrogel Technology Platform 

We apply our expertise with an established bioresorbable hydrogel technology to the development of products for sustained delivery of known, FDA-approved therapeutic agents for a variety of ophthalmic diseases and conditions and to ophthalmic wound closure. Our founders and management team have previously used this same hydrogel technology to develop FDA-approved and currently marketed medical products for other companies such as DuraSeal Dural Sealant &#174; (marketed by Integra Lifesciences, Inc.), a sealant for cranial and spine surgery, and Mynx &#174; (marketed by Cardinal Health), a sealant for femoral artery punctures after angiography and angioplasty. 

Our bioresorbable hydrogel technology is based on the use of a proprietary form of PEG. Our technical capabilities include a deep understanding of the polymer chemistry of PEG-based hydrogels and the design of the highly specialized manufacturing processes required to achieve a reliable, preservative free and pure product. We tailor the hydrogel to act as a vehicle for sustained drug delivery to the eye and as an ocular tissue sealant. We have used bioresorbable hydrogels to engineer each of our intracanalicular depot product candidates, ReSure Sealant and our intravitreal depot. 

We create our hydrogels by cross-linking PEG molecules to form a network that resembles a three-dimensional mesh on a molecular level. Our PEG molecules are branched, with four to eight branches or arms. Each arm bears a reactive site on its end. Our cross-linking chemistry uses a second molecule with four arms, bearing complimentary reactive sites on each end, such that when combined with the PEG molecules, a network spontaneously forms. When swollen with water, this molecular network forms a hydrogel. We design these hydrogels to slowly degrade in the presence of water, a process called hydrolysis, by inserting a biodegradable linkage between the PEG molecule and the cross-linked molecule. By appropriately selecting the number of arms of the PEG molecule and the biodegradable linkage, we can design hydrogels with varying mechanical properties and bioresorption rates. Because the body has an abundance of water at a constant temperature and pH level, hydrolysis provides a predictable and reproducible degradation rate. Our technology enables us to make hydrogels that can bioresorb over days, weeks or several months. The figure below depicts the formation and bioresorption of the hydrogel for ReSure Sealant. 

&#160;

Intracanalicular Depot-Based Sustained-Release Therapies for Front-of-the-Eye Diseases and Conditions 

A punctum is a natural opening located in the inner portion of the eyelid near the nose. There is a punctum in each of the lower eyelids and the upper eyelids. The puncta open into nasolacrimal ducts, which collect and drain tears produced by the eyes&#146; lacrimal glands. Tears produced in the lacrimal glands sweep across the eye surface and drain through the puncta to the nasal cavity. The section of the nasolacrimal duct immediately 

&#160;

beyond the puncta is called the vertical canaliculus. Intracanalicular depots that do not contain an active drug are commonly used for treatment of dry eye disease by physically blocking tear drainage. Because intracanalicular depots stay in contact with the tear film, they are well suited for sustained delivery of drug to the eye. 

Intracanalicular depot shown positioned in the vertical canaliculus 

&#160;

Our intracanalicular depots utilize our proprietary hydrogel technology and are embedded with an active drug. Following insertion through the punctum, our depots swell in tear fluid to fill the vertical canaliculus, which secures the depots in place. We design our depots to release drug in a sustained fashion, tailored to each disease state, back through the punctum to the surface of the eye. Over time the depots liquefy and are cleared through the nasolacrimal duct. If necessary due to excessive tearing, discomfort or improper placement, a healthcare professional can easily remove an intracanalicular depot by a simple process of pushing the soft depot back through the punctum. 

Our depots allow incorporation of a variety of drugs with a controllable range of delivery durations and delivery rates. For acute conditions, such as post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain and allergic conjunctivitis, we have designed our intracanalicular depots to provide a sustained release of therapeutic levels of drug for the duration of treatment. For chronic diseases, such as glaucoma, we have designed our intracanalicular depots for repeat administration with extended dosing periods. We are concentrating our development efforts on depots incorporating active pharmaceutical ingredients that are approved by the FDA for the targeted indication and that satisfy other specific selection criteria that we have developed. 

We manufacture our intracanalicular depots from dried PEG-based hydrogel formed into tiny rods that hold an active pharmaceutical ingredient in a preservative-free formulation. We embed the active pharmaceutical ingredient in the pre-hydrogel liquid formulation, which then solidifies to form a hydrogel containing the drug within. The relative size of one of our intracanalicular depots is shown in the figure below. 

&#160;

&#160;

We provide the intracanalicular depot as a thin dry rod to facilitate insertion through the narrow punctal opening. Upon hydration with tear fluid, the depot swells, softens, and conforms to roughly the size and shape of the vertical canaliculus, to secure it in place. We incorporate the active pharmaceutical ingredient in the form of micronized particles embedded directly in the hydrogel or as bioresorbable microspheres. 

&#160;

We have included a fluorescent label, or marker, in our intracanalicular depot hydrogel to serve as a visualization aid for the healthcare professional to confirm the depot&#146;s presence. The viewer applies a blue hand held light and a clear yellow filter aid to see the depot in the eyelid as shown in the figure below. 

&#160;

Because intracanalicular depots stay in contact with the tear film, other companies have pursued the development of intracanalicular depots containing active drugs for sustained release to the ocular surface. However, these earlier depot designs had significant limitations with respect to drug capacity, drug release kinetics and patient comfort. The earlier depot designs used non-degradable depots with a clear silicone hard rubber shell containing only a core with active drug. These depots typically extended outside of the punctal opening and secured themselves in place with an external cap. The external cap was in constant contact with the surface of the eye, causing irritation and discomfort in some cases. In addition, some prior designs resorted to plugging both the upper and lower puncta, which could cause excessive tearing and patient discomfort. These designs did not incorporate a visualization agent to allow the patient and physician to assess the presence of the depot. 

&#160;

In contrast to these prior approaches, we have designed our intracanalicular depots to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; incorporate the active pharmaceutical ingredient throughout the depot rather than just in a core to allow for higher drug capacity and better control over drug release; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; be bioresorbable so that removal is not required for acute conditions and required infrequently for chronic conditions; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; be soft and to fit beneath the punctal opening for patient comfort; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; include a fluorescent label to allow the healthcare professional and patient to visualize and assess the presence of the depot. We select the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our sustained-release drug delivery product candidates, including our intracanalicular depots, based on criteria we have developed through our extensive experience with hydrogel depot systems. Our active pharmaceutical ingredient selection criteria include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; prior approval by the FDA for the targeted ophthalmic indication; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expiration of relevant patent protection prior to or within our anticipated development timeline; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; high potency to minimize required drug load in the depot; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; availability from a qualified supplier; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; compatibility with our drug delivery system. Anticipated Benefits of Our Intracanalicular Depots Compared to Eye Drops 

We believe our intracanalicular depot product candidates may offer a range of favorable attributes as compared to eye drops, including: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Improved patient compliance . Our intracanalicular depots are inserted by a healthcare professional and are designed to provide sustained release of drug to the ocular surface. Because patients are not responsible for self-administration of the drug and the intracanalicular depots dissipate over time and do not require removal for acute conditions or frequent removal for chronic conditions, we believe our intracanalicular depots address the problem of patient compliance. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Ease of administration . We have designed our intracanalicular depots to provide the entire course of medication with a single administration by a healthcare professional for acute conditions or for several months for chronic conditions. We believe this avoids the need for frequent administration and the potential complications that could result if doses are missed. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Sustained delivery of drug . We have designed our intracanalicular depots to deliver drug in a sustained fashion to the surface of the eye in order to avoid the peak and valley dosing and related side effects and spikes in intraocular pressure associated with eye drops. We also believe sustained dosing may improve the therapeutic profile of the active pharmaceutical ingredient because it eliminates periods of little or no drug presence between eye drop administrations. Further, we are designing our product candidates so that their drug release profiles can be tailored to match the treatment needs of the disease. For example, steroids for ophthalmic purposes generally require administration over four weeks, with tapered dosing over this period. In contrast, prostaglandin analogs require administration in a steady fashion over the duration of treatment. Our intracanalicular depots are designed to fully dissipate over a period of two to three times the length of the expected period of release of the therapeutic agent and can be removed if necessary by a healthcare professional. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Avoidance of preservative side effects . Our intracanalicular depots do not involve the use of preservatives, such as BAK, which has been linked to side effects including burning, stinging, hyperemia, irritation, eye dryness and, less frequently, conjunctivitis or corneal damage. &#160;

Intravitreal Depot Injection for Back-of-the-Eye Diseases and Conditions 

We are engaged in preclinical development of an intravitreal depot to address the large and growing markets for diseases and conditions of the back of the eye. Our initial development efforts are focused on the use of our intravitreal depot in combination with anti-angiogenic drugs such as protein-based anti-VEGF drugs and small molecule TKIs for the treatment of back-of-the-eye diseases and conditions such as wet AMD. Our initial goal for this intravitreal depot is to provide sustained release of the drug over a four to six month period, thereby reducing the frequency of the current monthly or bi-monthly intravitreal injection regimen for wet AMD. We believe less frequent injections will be more convenient for patients and clinicians and may reduce the risk of infection and other potential side effects associated with each injection. 

We are pursuing a multi-pronged strategy to seek to maximize the potential of this technology. We are collaborating on this program with several different pharmaceutical companies using protein-based anti-angiogenic agents and are also conducting our own internal development using the anti-VEGF agent bevacizumab. We are also conducting research efforts on the delivery of small molecule TKIs in our intravitreal depot and have been focusing this research on what we believe may be an optimal drug candidate. We believe this class of drugs is well suited for use with our platform given its high potency, multi-target capability, and compatibility with a hydrogel vehicle. In the absence of a sophisticated drug delivery system, these drugs have been difficult to deliver to the eye at therapeutic levels without causing local and systemic toxicity. We feel our local drug delivery technology gives us advantages in this regard. By selecting compounds that are compatible with our hydrogel platform technology and that will have expiration of relevant patents within the timeline of our development program, we would also avoid the need to license these molecules, thus retaining full worldwide rights to our products. We are advancing the preclinical development of the sustained delivery of a small molecule on our own in parallel with a protein-based anti-angiogenic drug delivery program, which would require the involvement of a collaboration partner. We plan to continue working with our pharmaceutical company partners on development efforts and exploring potential business development deal structures as well as advancing our internal development efforts on our sustained-release hydrogel depot for the treatment of back-of-the-eye diseases. 

Our intravitreal depot consists of a PEG-based hydrogel suspension, which contains embedded micronized protein particles of an anti-angiogenic compound. We designed the intravitreal depot to be injected and retained in the vitreous humor, as depicted in the figure below, to provide sustained intravitreal delivery of anti-VEGF compounds. 

&#160;

We have designed our intravitreal depot for delivery using ordinary syringes and fine gauge needles compatible with the current standard of care. Once in the vitreous humor, the hydrogel is designed to retain the 

&#160;

anti-VEGF compound until it is released. We have designed the hydrogel to liquefy, dissolve and be cleared from the eye through hydrolysis over time. We design our hydrogels to control the hydrogel biodegradation rate and, as a result, the timing of anti-VEGF compound release. 

ReSure Sealant for Ocular Wound Closure 

ReSure Sealant is our bioresorbable hydrogel product for wound closure following cataract surgery. This product received marketing approval from the FDA in January 2014. We began the commercial launch of ReSure Sealant in February 2014 on a region-by-region basis in the United States through a network of independent distributors. A surgeon applies ReSure Sealant as a liquid painted onto the corneal incision. Within about 15 seconds, the sealant cross-links and transforms into a smooth, lubricious hydrogel that seals the wound. ReSure Sealant dissipates as healing progresses and does not require removal. In the pivotal clinical trials that formed the basis for FDA approval, ReSure Sealant provided superior wound closure and a better safety profile than sutured closure. However, we believe that the market opportunity for a surgical sealant following cataract surgery may be modest because sutures are used in only approximately 14% of cataract surgeries. We do not expect to generate meaningful levels of revenue from the sale of ReSure in 2016. 

&#160;

Development Pipeline and Marketed Product 

The following table summarizes important information about our key product development programs and our marketed product, ReSure Sealant. We hold worldwide commercial rights to each of our product candidates and ReSure Sealant. 

&#160;

Product / Program 

&#160; Indication 

&#160; Description (Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient) 

&#160; Stage of Development 

&#160; Status 

Approved Product 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; ReSure Sealant

&#160; Cataract incision closure &#160; Ocular sealant &#160; Marketed &#160; Approved by the FDA in January 2014; commercially launched in the United States in February 2014 Late Stage Product Candidates 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; DEXTENZA

&#160; Post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain &#160; Intracanalicular depot (Dexamethasone) &#160; Phase 3 &#160; Two Phase 3 trials completed in the first quarter of 2015; NDA submission for ocular pain accepted for filing in December 2015; FDA has established a target action date under PDUFA of July 24, 2016; third Phase 3 trial initiated in October 2015 OTX-TP

&#160; Glaucoma &#160; Intracanalicular depot (Travoprost) &#160; Phase 2b &#160; Phase 2a trial completed in May 2014; Phase 2b topline results reported in October 2015 DEXTENZA

&#160; Allergic conjunctivitis &#160; Intracanalicular depot (Dexamethasone) &#160; Phase 3 &#160; Phase 2 trial completed in November 2014; topline results from the first of two Phase 3 trials reported in October 2015; second Phase 3 trial initiated in November 2015 Earlier Stage Product Candidates 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; DEXTENZA

&#160; Inflammatory dry eye disease &#160; Intracanalicular depot (Dexamethasone) &#160; Phase 2 &#160; Topline results from Phase 2 trial reported in December 2015 OTX-MP

&#160; Ocular Infection &#160; Intracanalicular depot (Moxifloxacin) &#160; Phase 1 completed &#160; No active development efforts Anti-VEGF hydrogel depot

&#160; &#160;

Wet AMD

&#160; Injectable intravitreal hydrogel depot (Anti-VEGF compounds) &#160; Preclinical &#160; Ongoing preclinical studies Dexamethasone Intracanalicular Depot (OTX-DP) 

Our DEXTENZA (sustained-release dexamethasone) Intracanalicular Depot product candidate incorporates the corticosteroid dexamethasone as an active pharmaceutical ingredient in our proprietary hydrogel depot. We 

&#160;

are developing DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain, allergic conjunctivitis and inflammatory dry eye disease. We have designed DEXTENZA to provide a sustained release of dexamethasone over a period of approximately 30 days. We reported topline results from two Phase 3 clinical trials for this indication. 

We selected dexamethasone as the active pharmaceutical ingredient for DEXTENZA because it: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is approved by the FDA and has a long history of ophthalmic use; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is available on a generic basis; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is highly potent and is typically prescribed for prevention of ocular inflammation and pain following ocular surgery; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is available from multiple qualified suppliers; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; has physical properties that are well suited for incorporation within our intracanalicular depots. Embedded within our DEXTENZA intracanalicular depot are dexamethasone drug particles that gradually erode and release the drug in a sustained fashion until the drug is depleted. As the dexamethasone drug particles erode and the hydrogel degrades by hydrolysis, the intracanalicular depot softens, liquefies and is cleared through the nasolacrimal duct. We provide the DEXTENZA drug product in a preservative-free formulation in a sterile, single use package. 

The standard regimen for dexamethasone eye drops following cataract surgery is administration four to six times daily, with a gradual tapering in the number of eye drops over a four week period. Such a regimen is often confusing to patients as they must remember to taper the number of times per day they administer the steroid, while also taking multiple drops of other drugs, such as antibiotics and NSAIDs. We believe that sustained delivery of drug to the eye may result in better control of ocular inflammation and pain as compared to eye drops and that a low dose amount may provide enhanced safety by eliminating spikes in intraocular pressure associated with high dose steroid eye drops. 

Although dexamethasone is clinically effective in the treatment of late-phase inflammatory allergic reactions, the safety limitations associated with eye drop administration, including the potential to generate spikes in intraocular pressure due to the high levels of drug, have limited its widespread adoption as a treatment for this condition. These spikes in intraocular pressure can lead to drug-induced glaucoma, although the incidence is low. Further, use of oral anti-histamine medications as well as anti-histamine eye drops for allergic conjunctivitis may dry out the eye and exacerbate the discomfort to some patients. We believe, based on our clinical trial results to date, that periodic use of the DEXTENZA for allergic conjunctivitis will create a low, tapered, consistent dose of dexamethasone, potentially minimizing or eliminating side effects associated with the eye drop formulation, while retaining the drug&#146;s anti-inflammatory effects. 

One of the causes of dry eye disease is inflammation. Topical anti-inflammatory drugs are used as one of several therapies to treat dry eye disease and are administered by eye drops. As the understanding of dry eye disease, specifically the inflammatory components of dry eye disease, has evolved, the use of corticosteroids has become a standard to offer short-term relief of signs and symptoms of the disease. Physicians typically prescribe a topical corticosteroid for a period of two to four weeks, tapered over the course of delivery as the inflammation and symptoms subside. As with allergic conjunctivitis, there are safety limitations associated with the use of corticosteroids for inflammatory dry eye disease that have limited wide spread adoption. We believe that DEXTENZA has potential as a short-term therapy for more severe cases of dry eye caused by inflammation, followed by the delivery of an immunosuppressant drug such as cyclosporine after the inflammation has been reduced. 

Overview of DEXTENZA Clinical Development 

We are conducting clinical development of DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain, allergic conjunctivitis and inflammatory dry eye disease. Because DEXTENZA 

&#160;

incorporates an active pharmaceutical ingredient already approved by the FDA for the treatment of ocular inflammation and pain, we did not need to conduct Phase 1 clinical trials for this product candidate. The following summarizes our clinical development to date for DEXTENZA. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In March and April 2015, we reported topline results from two Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain. In the first Phase 3 clinical trial, DEXTENZA met both primary efficacy endpoints, absence of pain at day 8 and absence of inflammatory cells at day 14, with statistical significance. In the second Phase 3 clinical trial, DEXTENZA met the primary efficacy endpoint for absence of pain at day 8 with statistical significance but did not meet the primary efficacy endpoint for absence of inflammatory cells at day 14. We met with the FDA in April 2015 to discuss the path forward for seeking marketing approval of DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain. In this pre-NDA clinical meeting, the FDA indicated that the existing data from our Phase 2 and two Phase 3 clinical trials are appropriate to support an NDA submission for DEXTENZA for a post-surgical ocular pain indication. The FDA further indicated that we would need additional data from a third Phase 3 clinical trial for the inflammation endpoint to support the potential labeling expansion of DEXTENZA&#146;s indications for use. We initiated a third Phase 3 clinical trial for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain in October 2015. We submitted to the FDA an NDA for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular pain. The FDA has accepted the NDA for filing and established a target action date under PDUFA of July 24, 2016. Based on our expectations regarding initiation of our third Phase 3 clinical trial of DEXTENZA and our estimates regarding patient enrollment, we expect to have topline efficacy data available from this trial in the second half of 2016. If the results of our third Phase 3 clinical trial of DEXTENZA are favorable and subject to receiving approval for the pain indication pursuant to the initial NDA on the PDUFA action date, we plan to submit an NDA supplement for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation in the first quarter of 2017. If we receive approval of our initial NDA on the PDUFA action date, we expect to commercially launch DEXTENZA for post-surgical ocular pain in the United States in the first half of 2017. If we receive approval of the NDA supplement for post-surgical ocular inflammation, we would expect to expand the labeling to include this indication. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In November 2014, we completed a Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of DEXTENZA for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis. Based upon the encouraging results of this Phase 2 clinical trial and a subsequent meeting with the FDA, we began enrollment for an initial Phase 3 clinical trial of DEXTENZA for this indication in June 2015. We announced topline results from this trial in October 2015. We initiated a second Phase 3 clinical trial of DEXTENZA for this indication in November 2015. We expect to report topline results for the second Phase 3 clinical trial in the third quarter of 2016. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In January 2015, we initiated a Phase 2 exploratory clinical trial of DEXTENZA for the treatment of inflammatory dry eye disease. We reported topline results from this trial in December 2015. We plan to meet with the FDA in 2016 and then assess the future direction of the clinical development of this product candidate. Clinical Trials for Post-Surgical Inflammation and Pain 

Completed Phase 2 Clinical Trial 

In 2013, we completed a prospective, randomized, parallel-arm, vehicle-controlled, multicenter, double-masked Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of DEXTENZA for the treatment of ocular inflammation and pain following cataract surgery. We conducted this trial in 60 patients at four sites in the United States pursuant to an effective investigational new drug application, or IND. We randomized patients in a 1:1 ratio to receive either DEXTENZA or a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot without active drug. One patient randomized into the DEXTENZA group was excluded from the trial because the investigator was unable to insert the depot, resulting in 29 patients in the DEXTENZA group and 30 patients in the vehicle control group. We evaluated patients in this trial at days 1, 4, 8, 11, 14 and 30 following surgery. 

&#160;

The two primary efficacy measures in this trial were absence of inflammatory cells in the anterior chamber of the study eye and absence of pain in the study eye. When viewed with a slit lamp biomicroscope, these inflammatory cells, referred to as cells in a slit lamp examination, appear like dust specks floating in a projected light beam. The presence of these cells in the anterior chamber indicates inflammation. In this trial, absence of pain was based on a patient reported score of zero on a scale from zero to ten of ocular pain assessment. The first primary efficacy endpoint was the difference in the proportion of patients in each treatment group with absence of cells in the anterior chamber of the study eye at day 8 following surgery. The second primary efficacy endpoint was the difference in the proportion of patients in each treatment group with absence of pain in the study eye at day 8 following surgery. 

One of our goals for this trial was to determine appropriate primary endpoints for a subsequent Phase 3 clinical development. 

We evaluated as secondary measures the absence of flare in the anterior chamber of the study eye at each evaluation date, absence of inflammatory cells in the anterior chamber of the study eye and absence of pain in the study eye at each evaluation date other than day 8 and depot retention and visualization. Flare is a scattering of light in the aqueous humor when viewed during a slit lamp biomicroscopic examination. Flare occurs when the protein content of the aqueous humor increases due to intraocular inflammation. 

We enrolled patients in this trial who were at least 21 years of age undergoing unilateral clear corneal cataract surgery. We excluded patients from the trial if, among other reasons, they had intraocular inflammation or ocular pain in the study eye at screening or had glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 

Efficacy: In this trial, DEXTENZA met the primary efficacy endpoint with statistical significance for absence of pain compared to the vehicle control at day 8 (p&#60;0.0001). We determined statistical significance based on a widely used, conventional statistical method that establishes the p-value of clinical results. Typically, a p-value of 0.05 or less represents statistical significance. The differences between DEXTENZA and the vehicle control for absence of pain also were statistically significant at each other evaluation date (p&#60;0.0002). These results are shown in the graph below. In this graph and other graphs appearing further below, we use the abbreviation &#147;N&#148; to reference the number of patients in each group. 

&#160;

&#160;

In this trial, DEXTENZA did not meet the primary efficacy endpoint with statistical significance for absence of cells in the anterior chamber compared to the vehicle control at day 8. However, there was a trend of improved absence of anterior chamber cells at each evaluation date, with statistical significance at day 14 (p&#60;0.0027) and day 30 (p&#60; 0.0002). These results are shown in the graph below. 

&#160;

Based on post hoc analysis, DEXTENZA showed statistical significance for absence of flare compared to vehicle control at each evaluation date. These results are shown in the graph below. 

&#160;

&#160;

Safety: In this trial, there were three serious adverse events, none of which was considered related to the study treatment. The trial investigator determined the relatedness of the serious adverse events to study treatment based on his or her professional medical judgment and in accordance with the study protocol, which required the investigator to determine that a reasonable possibility did not exist that the study treatment caused the adverse event. None of the three serious adverse events, syncope, intracranial hemorrhage and cellulitis of the arm, were ocular in nature. In addition, there were a variety of adverse events in both the DEXTENZA group and the vehicle control group, with the adverse events in the vehicle control group outnumbering the adverse events in the DEXTENZA group. In the DEXTENZA group, the only adverse event that occurred more than once was reduced visual acuity, which occurred twice. The most common adverse events in the vehicle control group were reduced visual acuity, conjunctival hyperemia and corneal edema. Overall, 19 adverse events were noted in the DEXTENZA group and 30 adverse events were noted in the vehicle control group. All adverse events were transient in nature and completely resolved by the end of the trial. 

Completed Phase 3 Clinical Trials 

In 2014, we initiated a pivotal clinical trial program that consisted of two prospective, randomized, parallel-arm, vehicle-controlled, multicenter, double-masked Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of DEXTENZA for the treatment of ocular inflammation and pain following cataract surgery. We initiated the first of these Phase 3 clinical trials in February 2014 and the second trial in April 2014. Patient enrollment was completed in September 2014, and the topline efficacy data from these clinical trials was reported in March and April 2015. We initiated a third Phase 3 clinical trial in the October 2015. 

For the first two trials, we enrolled an aggregate of 488 patients in these trials at 32 sites in the United States pursuant to our effective IND. We randomized patients in a 2:1 ratio to receive either DEXTENZA or a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot without active drug. We enrolled 247 patients at 16 sites in the first Phase 3 clinical trial. We enrolled 241 patients at 16 sites in the second Phase 3 clinical trial. We evaluated patients at days 2, 4, 8, 14, 30 and 60 following surgery. 

The two primary efficacy measures in these trials were absence of inflammatory cells in the anterior chamber of the study eye when measured with a slit lamp biomicroscope and absence of pain in the study eye. To meet the efficacy end point for absence of inflammatory cells, there needed to be a complete absence of inflammatory cells. In these trials, absence of pain was based on a patient reported score of zero on a scale from zero to ten of ocular pain assessment. The first primary efficacy endpoint for these trials was the difference in the proportion of patients in each treatment group with absence of inflammatory cells in the anterior chamber of the study eye at day 14 following surgery. Pivotal clinical trials for other ophthalmic steroid drugs approved by the FDA for marketing in the United States also have evaluated this endpoint at day 14. The second primary efficacy endpoint for these trials was the difference in the proportion of patients in each treatment group with absence of pain in the study eye at day 8 following surgery. 

We evaluated as secondary efficacy measures the level of flare in the anterior chamber of the study eye at each evaluation date other than day 60 and absence of inflammatory cells in the anterior chamber of the study eye and absence of pain in the study eye at each evaluation date other than the day used for the primary efficacy measure and day 60. The secondary analyses on primary endpoints were intended to be exploratory assessments that can be used to support the results from the primary endpoints. If we obtain favorable results showing effectiveness of DEXTENZA at earlier time points for absence of cells or absence of pain, we will consider seeking to expand the labeling for DEXTENZA as part of our NDA following any marketing approval that we may receive. We enrolled patients in these two trials who were at least 18 years of age undergoing unilateral clear corneal cataract surgery. We excluded patients from these trials if, among other reasons, they have intraocular inflammation or ocular pain in the study eye at screening or have glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 

We evaluated safety in all patients at each study visit with an assessment of general eye conditions, including visual acuity and intraocular pressure, along with any adverse events. 

&#160;

Efficacy: In the first Phase 3 clinical trial, DEXTENZA met the primary efficacy endpoint with statistical significance for absence of cells in the anterior chamber compared to the vehicle control at day 14. 33.1% of DEXTENZA treated patients showed an absence of inflammatory cells in the anterior chamber of the study eye on day 14 following drug product insertion, compared to 14.5% of those receiving placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depots (p=0.0018). DEXTENZA also met the primary efficacy endpoint with statistical significance for absence of pain compared to the vehicle control at day 8. 80.4% of patients receiving DEXTENZA reported absence of pain in the study eye on day 8 following insertion of the drug product, compared to 43.4% of those receiving placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depots (p&#60; 0.0001). 

In the second Phase 3 clinical trial, DEXTENZA met the primary efficacy endpoint for absence of pain at day 8 with statistical significance but did not meet the primary efficacy endpoint for absence of inflammatory cells at day 14. In the second Phase 3 clinical trial, 77.5% of patients receiving DEXTENZA reported an absence of pain in the study eye on day 8 following insertion of the drug product, compared to 58.8% of those receiving placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depots, a difference which was statistically significant (p=0.0025). However, 39.4% of DEXTENZA treated patients showed an absence of inflammatory cells in the anterior chamber of the study eye on day 14 following drug product insertion, compared to 31.3% of those receiving placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depots, a difference which was not statistically significant (p=0.2182). 

Secondary analyses on primary endpoints for the two completed Phase 3 clinical trials have also been completed. In the first Phase 3 clinical trial, statistically significant differences were seen for absence of pain at all time points (days 2, 4, 8, 14, 30 and 60) in the DEXTENZA treatment group compared to the vehicle control group. Statistically significant differences were seen for the absence of inflammatory cells at day 30 in the DEXTENZA treatment group compared to the vehicle control group, and there were no statistically significant differences seen at the other time points. Statistically significant differences between the DEXTENZA treatment group and the vehicle control group were seen for flare at days 8, 14 and 30. 

In the second Phase 3 clinical trial, statistically significant differences were seen for absence of pain at days 2, 4, 14 and 30 in the DEXTENZA treatment group compared to the vehicle control group. A similar proportion of patients in the DEXTENZA treatment group and the vehicle control group were observed to have an absence of inflammatory cells at days 2, 4, 8, and 30. A statistically significant difference between treatment groups was not seen for the absence of inflammatory cells until the day 60 visit, at which time a greater proportion of patients in the DEXTENZA treatment group compared to the vehicle control group were observed to have an absence of inflammatory cells at day 60 (p=0.0012). Statistically significant differences between the DEXTENZA treatment group and the vehicle control group were seen for flare at days 14, 30 and 60. 

We also performed additional post-hoc analyses that were not pre-specified in the trial protocol for our two completed Phase 3 clinical trials to provide further insight on the performance of the DEXTENZA platform technology. Although post-hoc analyses performed using an unlocked clinical trial database can result in the introduction of bias, we believe that these analyses provide support for our decision to conduct a third Phase 3 clinical trial and provide additional information regarding our platform technology. The results from these post-hoc analyses are summarized as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; When we pooled the aggregate results of the two completed Phase 3 clinical trials, we observed statistically significant differences between the DEXTENZA treatment groups and the vehicle control groups for both the absence of pain at day 8 (p &#60; 0.0001) and the absence of inflammatory cells at day 14 (p= 0.0025). &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; When we combined the measures of complete absence of inflammatory cells (0.0 on a scale of zero to four) and very mild inflammation (0.5 on the same scale and defined as presence of a total of one to five inflammatory cells) for the second Phase 3 clinical trial, we observed a statistically significant difference between the DEXTENZA treatment group and the vehicle control group (p= 0.0004). Although we have discussed with the FDA the results from these post-hoc analyses, these are not the primary efficacy measures to be considered by the FDA. In general, regulatory authorities give less weight to results from post-hoc analyses than pre-specified analyses. 

&#160;

Safety: There were no ocular or treatment-related serious adverse events in the DEXTENZA treatment group in either of the two completed Phase 3 clinical trials. There was one ocular serious adverse event in the vehicle control group in the two completed Phase 3 clinical trials: hypopyon, or inflammatory cells in the anterior chamber. There were two patients with three serious adverse events in the DEXTENZA treatment group in the first Phase 3 clinical trial (1.2% incidence), compared with two patients with four serious adverse events in the vehicle control group (2.4% incidence). There were two serious adverse events in the DEXTENZA treatment group in the second Phase 3 clinical trial (1.3% incidence), compared with three serious adverse events in the vehicle control group (3.8% incidence). In the first Phase 3 clinical trial, 98 adverse events were noted in the DEXTENZA group and 59 adverse events were noted in the vehicle control group. In the second Phase 3 clinical trial, 74 adverse events were noted in the DEXTENZA group and 47 adverse events were noted in the vehicle control group. Patients were randomized in a 2:1 ratio between the treatment group and the vehicle control group. All adverse events were either resolved or considered chronic/stable at the time of subject exit from the study. We expect to be able to use the safety data from these Phase 3 trials to support our other DEXTENZA clinical development programs, including for allergic conjunctivitis. 

Additional Phase 3 Clinical Trial 

We initiated a third Phase 3 clinical trial for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain in October 2015. We expect to enroll 436 patients in this trial, with patients randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either DEXTENZA or placebo. We have made modifications to the protocol design of this third Phase 3 clinical trial compared to our two completed Phase 3 clinical trials of DEXTENZA based on our learnings from these prior trials. These modifications relate to factors we believe impacted the results of the second Phase 3 clinical trial, including the use of rescue medications in patients with mild inflammation at the day 8 visit and the use of high dose oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs. In the third Phase 3 clinical trial, we will exclude patients receiving high doses of NSAIDs, such as Naproxen, and we have provided additional guidance to study investigators regarding the use of rescue medications per the study protocol. 

Regulatory Pathway 

In September 2015, we submitted to the FDA an NDA for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular pain. The FDA has accepted the NDA for filing and established a target action date under PDUFA of July 24, 2016. If the results of our third Phase 3 clinical trial of DEXTENZA are favorable and subject to receiving approval for the pain indication pursuant to the initial NDA on the PDUFA action date, we plan to submit an NDA supplement, or sNDA, for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation in the first quarter of 2017. We expect that we would submit the sNDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. See &#147;&#151;Government Regulation&#151;Section 505(b)(2) NDAs&#148; for additional information. Although we are conducting our Phase 3 clinical trials of DEXTENZA in patients who have undergone cataract surgery, these trials are intended to support a label for all post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain. 

Clinical Trials for Allergic Conjunctivitis 

Completed Phase 2 Clinical Trial 

In November 2014, we completed a prospective, randomized, parallel-arm, vehicle-controlled, multicenter, double-masked Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of DEXTENZA for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis. We conducted this trial using a modified version of a controlled exposure model commonly used to assess anti-allergy medications known as the Conjunctival Allergen Challenge model, or CAC TM , which is a proprietary model owned by ORA, Inc., the clinical research organization we used to manage the trial. The modified CAC achieves a very high transient dose exposure by placing allergen directly into the space between the eyelid and the surface of the eye of the patient. We initially exposed patients to specified allergens to determine which allergens resulted in an allergic response for the patients. If patient was responsive to a particular allergen, we continued to expose the patient to that same allergen prior to each evaluation. 

&#160;

We enrolled 68 patients at two sites in the United States pursuant to our effective IND. We randomized patients in a 1:1 ratio to receive either DEXTENZA or a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot without active drug. We evaluated patients using three allergen challenges in series for each of the two efficacy measures at 14, 28 and 42 days following intracanalicular depot insertion. 

The primary efficacy measures for this trial were ocular itching graded by the patient and conjunctival redness graded by the trial investigator, in each case based on a five point scale from zero to four. The primary efficacy measures were differences between treatment groups of at least 0.5 units on the five point scale on day 14 for all three time points measured in a day for both ocular itching and conjunctival redness and differences between treatment groups of at least 1.0 unit for the majority of the three time points measured on 14 days post insertion for both ocular itching and conjunctival redness. The secondary endpoints for this trial were similar to the primary efficacy endpoints, except that each variable was assessed at 28 days and 42 days following insertion of the intracanalicular depot. 

We enrolled patients in this trial who were at least 18 years of age with a positive history of ocular allergies and a positive skin test reaction to a perennial allergen and a seasonal allergen. We excluded patients from this trial if, among other reasons, they had an active ocular infection or itching or conjunctival redness at screening. 

We evaluated safety in all patients at each study visit with an assessment of general eye conditions, including visual acuity and intraocular pressure, along with any adverse events. 

Efficacy: In this trial, there was a statistically significant mean difference (p&#60;0.05) between the DEXTENZA treatment group and the vehicle group for both ocular itching and conjunctival redness at all three time points measured on 14, 28, and 42 days following insertion of the intracanalicular depot. DEXTENZA met one of the two primary efficacy endpoints. The DEXTENZA treatment group achieved a mean difference compared to the vehicle control group of more than 0.5 units on a five point scale on 14 days post insertion for all three time points measured in a day for both ocular itching and conjunctival redness. The DEXTENZA group did not achieve a mean difference compared to the vehicle control group of 1.0 unit for the majority of the three time points measured on 14 days post insertion for either ocular itching or conjunctival redness. However, in a pre-specified analysis group of a second site in the clinical trial, in which DEXTENZA intracanalicular depots were inserted 48 to 72 hours following exposure to the allergen, rather than on the same day, we observed a mean difference in ocular itching between the DEXTENZA group and the vehicle control group of approximately 1.0 unit for the majority of three time points measured on 14 days. 

The results of this trial for each of the three time points on day 14 following the insertion of the intracanalicular depot for the DEXTENZA group and the vehicle control group are shown in the table below: 

&#160;

Parameter &#160; Time 

Point 

&#160; DEXTENZA &#160; &#160; Vehicle &#160; &#160; Treatment Difference (P-value) Ocular Itching

&#160; 3 min &#160; &#160; 1.80 (1.068) &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.58 (0.823) &#160; &#160; -0.78 (0.0031) 

&#160; 5 min &#160; &#160; 1.72 (0.998) &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.70 (0.865) &#160; &#160; -0.98 (0.0002) 

&#160; 7 min &#160; &#160; 1.65 (0.989) &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.53 (0.880) &#160; &#160; -0.88 (0.0007) 

Conjunctival Redness

&#160; 7 min &#160; &#160; 1.60 (0.753) &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.11 (0.727) &#160; &#160; -0.51 (0.0100) 

&#160; 15 min &#160; &#160; 1.53 (0.753) &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.23 (0.708) &#160; &#160; -0.70 (0.0006) 

&#160; 20 min &#160; &#160; 1.54 (0.739) &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.21 (0.696) &#160; &#160; -0.67 (0.0008) 

&#160;

Safety: In this trial, there was one serious adverse event in the treatment arm, which was depression. This event was suspected to be related to treatment. The trial investigator determined the relatedness of the serious adverse event to study treatment based on his or her professional medical judgment and in accordance with the study protocol, which required the investigator to determine that a reasonable possibility did not exist that the study treatment caused the adverse event. The serious adverse event was not ocular in nature. In addition, there were a variety of adverse events in both the DEXTENZA group and the vehicle control group, with nine ocular related adverse events and two non-ocular adverse events in the DEXTENZA group and eight ocular adverse events and two non-ocular adverse events in the vehicle control group. In the DEXTENZA group, the only adverse event that occurred more than once was reduction in visual acuity and increased intraocular pressure, both of which occurred twice. The most common adverse events in the vehicle control group were erythema of the eyelid, discharge from the eye and an increase in lacrimation, all of which occurred twice. All adverse events were transient in nature and completely resolved by the end of the trial. 

Phase 3 Clinical Program 

We met with the FDA in December 2014 to review the Phase 2 clinical trial results of DEXTENZA for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis and to discuss our planned Phase 3 clinical development program. Based on these discussions, we have initiated and completed one Phase 3 clinical trial and, in November 2015, initiated a second Phase 3 clinical trial for this indication. We expect to report topline results for the second Phase 3 clinical trial in the third quarter of 2016. 

First Phase 3 Clinical Trial 

We initiated the first of these two planned Phase 3 clinical trials in June 2015, and we reported topline efficacy results in October 2015. This first Phase 3 clinical trial was a prospective, randomized, parallel-arm, vehicle-controlled, multicenter, double-masked trial. A total of 73 patients were enrolled in this trial and were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either DEXTENZA or a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot without active drug. This trial was conducted using the modified CAC model. We evaluated patients using three allergen challenges in series for each of two efficacy measures at days 7, 14 and 28 following intracanalicular depot insertion as described below. In this Phase 3 clinical trial, we inserted the intracanalicular depots 48 to 72 hours after exposure to the allergen. In our completed Phase 2 clinical trial, we obtained better efficacy results with this design protocol as noted in the description of the Phase 2 efficacy results above. 

The primary efficacy measures for this trial were ocular itching graded by the patient and conjunctival redness graded by the trial investigator, in each case based on a five point scale from zero to four. The primary efficacy endpoints were the differences between the treatment group and the vehicle group of at least 0.5 units on the five point scale measured on day 7 following insertion of the intracanalicular depot for all three time points measured for both ocular itching and conjunctival redness and differences of at least 1.0 unit for the majority of the three time points measured on day 7 following insertion of the intracanalicular depot for both ocular itching and conjunctival redness. The secondary endpoints were similar to the primary efficacy endpoints except that each variable was assessed at day 14 and day 28 following insertion of the intracanalicular depot. The primary efficacy measure of conjunctival redness is typically included in Phase 3 trials for allergic conjunctivitis but has not been required for FDA approval of drugs for allergic conjunctivitis. Most commercially available prescription medications for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis have an ocular itching indication only. As described below, ocular itching is the only primary efficacy endpoint in the second Phase 3 trial of DEXTENZA for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis, with conjunctival redness being moved to a secondary efficacy endpoint. 

We enrolled patients in this trial who were at least 18 years of age with a positive history of ocular allergies and a positive skin test reaction to a perennial allergen and a seasonal allergen. We excluded patients from this trial if, among other reasons, they had an active ocular infection or itching or conjunctival redness at screening. 

We evaluated safety in all patients at each study visit with an assessment of general eye conditions, including visual acuity and intraocular pressure, along with any adverse events. 

&#160;

Efficacy: In this trial, there was a statistically significant mean difference (p&#60;0.0001) between the DEXTENZA treatment group and the placebo vehicle group for ocular itching at all three time points measured on day 7 post-insertion of the intracanalicular depot. DEXTENZA also met the primary efficacy endpoint for ocular itching. The DEXTENZA treatment group achieved a mean difference compared to the vehicle group of greater than 0.5 units on a five point scale on day 7 following insertion at each time point and greater than 1.0 unit at a majority of the time points on day 7 following insertion for ocular itching. There was a statistically significant mean difference (p=0.01 or less) between the DEXTENZA treatment group and the placebo vehicle group for conjunctival redness at all three time points measured on day 7 post-insertion of the intracanalicular depot. However, the DEXTENZA group did not achieve the pre-specified primary efficacy endpoints on day 7 post-insertion with respect to conjunctival redness. The secondary endpoints and complete safety data are being analyzed and are expected to be available in the second half of 2016. 

The results of this trial for each of the three time points on day 7 following insertion of the intracanalicular depot for the DEXTENZA group and the vehicle control group are shown in the table below: 

&#160;

Parameter &#160; Time 

Point 

&#160; DEXTENZA &#160; &#160; Vehicle &#160; &#160; Treatment Difference (P-value) Ocular Itching

&#160; 3 min &#160; &#160; 1.68 (1.032) &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.66 (0.861) &#160; &#160; -1.02 (&#60;0.0001) 

&#160; 5 min &#160; &#160; 1.87 (1.04) &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.74 (0.69) &#160; &#160; -0.87 (&#60;0.0001) 

&#160; 7 min &#160; &#160; 1.70 (0.938) &#160; &#160; &#160; 2.74 (0.679) &#160; &#160; -1.04 (0.0007) 

Conjunctival Redness

&#160; 7 min &#160; &#160; 1.52 (0.641) &#160; &#160; &#160; 1.80 (0.764) &#160; &#160; -0.26 (0.1082) 

&#160; 15 min &#160; &#160; 1.48 (0.698) &#160; &#160; &#160; 1.75 (0.786) &#160; &#160; -0.32 (0.0419) 

&#160; 20 min &#160; &#160; 1.44 (0.710) &#160; &#160; &#160; 1.76 (0.766) &#160; &#160; -0.29 (0.0667) 

Safety: In this trial there were no serious adverse events in either the treatment group or the vehicle control group. There were a variety of adverse events in both the DEXTENZA group and the vehicle control group, with three ocular adverse events and no non-ocular adverse events in the DEXTENZA group and three ocular adverse events and one non-ocular adverse events in the vehicle control group. The adverse events in the DEXTENZA subjects were determined to be related to study treatment and two ocular adverse events in one vehicle subject were suspected to be related to study treatment. 

Second Phase 3 Clinical Trial 

We initiated the second Phase 3 clinical trial of DEXTENZA for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis in November 2015. This second Phase 3 clinical trial is a prospective, randomized, parallel-arm, vehicle-controlled, multicenter, double-masked trial. A total of 72 patients are expected to be enrolled in this trial and are being randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either DEXTENZA or a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot without active drug. This trial is being conducted using the modified CAC model. Patients will be evaluated using three allergen challenges in series for each of two efficacy measures at days 7, 14 and 28 following intracanalicular depot insertion. In this Phase 3 clinical trial, we are inserting the intracanalicular depots 48 to 72 hours after exposure to the allergen. 

The single primary efficacy measure for this trial is ocular itching graded by the patient based on a five point scale from zero to four. The primary efficacy endpoints are the differences between the treatment group and the vehicle group of at least 0.5 units on the five point scale on day 7 following insertion of the intracanalicular depot for all three time points measured for ocular itching and differences of at least 1.0 unit for the majority of 

&#160;

the three time points measured on day 7 following insertion of the intracanalicular depot for ocular itching. The secondary endpoints for ocular itching are similar to the primary efficacy endpoints except that each variable will be assessed at day 14 and day 28 following insertion of the intracanalicular depot. The secondary endpoints for conjunctival redness are the differences between the treatment group and the vehicle group of at least 0.5 units on the five point scale on day 7 following insertion of the intracanalicular depot for all three time points measured and differences of at least 1.0 unit for the majority of the three time points measured on day 7 following insertion of the intracanalicular depot. 

We are enrolling patients in this trial who are at least 18 years of age with a positive history of ocular allergies and a positive skin test reaction to a perennial allergen and a seasonal allergen. We are excluding patients from this trial if, among other reasons, they had an active ocular infection or itching or conjunctival redness at screening. 

We are evaluating safety in all patients at each study visit with an assessment of general eye conditions, including visual acuity and intraocular pressure, along with any adverse events. 

We expect to have topline results from this second Phase 3 trial of DEXTENZA for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis in the third quarter of 2016. 

Regulatory Pathway 

We reviewed our Phase 2 results with the FDA during a meeting in December 2014 and based on these discussions initiated two Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating DEXTENZA for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis in 2015. If we obtain favorable results on the primary efficacy endpoint of ocular itching in the second Phase 3 clinical trial, and subject to receiving approval for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular pain pursuant to the NDA that has been submitted to the FDA, we plan to submit an sNDA to the FDA for DEXTENZA for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis. Depending on the results of our Phase 3 clinical trials and further discussions with the FDA, we will likely seek approval for only the ocular itching indication. We expect that we would submit this sNDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. See &#147;&#151;Government Regulation&#151;Section 505(b)(2) NDAs&#148; for additional information. Based on discussions with the FDA, we expect to use safety results from our Phase 3 clinical trials of DEXTENZA for post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain to support the sNDA for DEXTENZA for allergic conjunctivitis. 

Clinical Trial for Inflammatory Dry Eye 

Phase 2 Clinical Trial 

In January 2015, we initiated a prospective, randomized, parallel-arm, vehicle-controlled, multicenter, bilateral, double-masked Phase 2 feasibility study evaluating the safety and efficacy of DEXTENZA for the treatment of inflammatory dry eye disease. We enrolled 43 patients and evaluated 86 eyes at two sites in the United States pursuant to our effective IND. The clinical trial was not powered for statistical significance. We randomized patients in a 1:1 ratio to receive either DEXTENZA or a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot without active drug. 

Designed as a serial phase exploratory study, patients were initially administered a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot for 45 days to establish a baseline for the investigational drug treatment. Patients who responded to the placebo depot in treatment of their dry eye disease were excluded from the trial. Patients who continued to exhibit symptoms of dry eye disease during the initial 45 days, as indicated by a minimum threshold of signs of corneal staining, were qualified for enrollment in the treatment phase of the trial. Qualified patients were then randomized to receive either DEXTENZA or a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot. Primary efficacy measures included corneal and conjunctival staining, tear osmolarity, tear film break-up time, presence of the depot, ease of product use and visualization, and resorption of the depot following therapy. We reported topline results for this clinical trial in December 2015. 

&#160;

In this exploratory Phase 2 clinical trial, patients were selected for a minimum threshold of signs of corneal staining and were randomized to either treatment with DEXTENZA or a placebo vehicle depot. Patients were stratified into groups based on the level of National Eye Institute aggregate corneal fluorescein staining score improvement and were then randomized into the treatment or placebo vehicle depot group per a pre-determined randomization list to maintain masking. DEXTENZA treated patients showed clinically meaningful benefits compared to patients receiving a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot, with improvement in total and inferior corneal staining as well as conjunctival staining. Total corneal staining at day 30 following randomization was significantly decreased from baseline in the DEXTENZA group (-3.14) compared to placebo (-1.10) (p=0.018). Inferior staining showed clinically significant differences in the change from baseline in the DEXTENZA treatment group compared to the placebo group (-0.44 and -0.45 at day 15 and day 30, respectively). Corneal staining is a primary endpoint that has been used in recent Phase 3 dry eye clinical trials for dry eye disease conducted by other ophthalmology companies. Supportive analyses of lissamine green staining also demonstrated a clinically significant change in favor of DEXTENZA, where total staining was more than 1 point improved for the DEXTENZA group compared to the placebo group. We expect to have complete efficacy and safety results in the first half of 2016. 

This clinical trial was designed to evaluate a range of objective and subjective measures (signs and symptoms, respectively) for DEXTENZA and was intended to explore which measures would be appropriate to include in the design of future clinical trials of DEXTENZA or other molecules in a sustained-release product as a potential therapy for inflammatory dry eye disease. We plan to meet with the FDA in 2016. Based on this meeting and the results of the exploratory Phase 2 trial, we plan to assess the design of additional clinical trials of this product candidate. The initial exploratory Phase 2 trial design was optimized for signs, and we may need to select a different clinical trial design to optimize for symptoms. Our long term strategy for the treatment of dry eye may be to use DEXTENZA as an initial mode of therapy to reduce inflammation followed by an intracanalicular depot containing an immunosuppressant drug such as cyclosporine. For more chronic treatment of dry eye, we continue to conduct early stage research to identify product candidates that would be suitable for this multifactorial disease. 

Based on preliminary safety data from this Phase 2 trial, there was one serious adverse event in the treatment arm which occurred prior to the insertion of the DEXTENZA intracanalicular depot. There were no serious adverse events through the course of the trial after the insertion of the depots. There were ten adverse events in the treatment group, including eight ocular adverse events, the most common of which was increased lacrimation. There were eight adverse events in the vehicle control arm, including four ocular adverse events. The final safety results are expected to be available in the second quarter of 2016. 

Travoprost Intracanalicular Depot (OTX-TP) 

Our OTX-TP product candidate incorporates the prostaglandin analog travoprost as an active pharmaceutical ingredient in our proprietary intracanalicular depot. We are developing OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension. We have completed a Phase 2a clinical trial of OTX-TP, and we reported topline efficacy results of a Phase 2b clinical trial of OTX-TP in the United States in October 2015. 

Travoprost is a synthetic prostaglandin analog that reduces intraocular pressure by enhancing the clearance and drainage of ocular fluid. 

We selected travoprost as the active pharmaceutical ingredient for OTX-TP because it: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is approved by the FDA for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; has relevant patent protection that expired in December 2014; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is a highly potent PGA molecule; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is available from multiple qualified suppliers; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; has physical properties that are well suited for incorporation within our intracanalicular depots. We have designed OTX-TP to provide a sustained release of therapeutic levels of travoprost for up to three months. We have tested versions of OTX-TP that are capable of sustained delivery over a one-month, a two-month and a three-month period. The retention time of our intracanalicular depots varies from patient to patient due to various physiological factors and particular stresses to which the intracanalicular depots may be subjected. We have conducted a series of non-significant risk, or NSR, investigational device exemption, or IDE, studies with improved product designs and placement procedures with the goal of achieving higher retention rates. We have achieved successive improvements in retention, with as high as a 92% retention rate at day 90 in one of these NSR studies. Our completed pilot studies evaluated one-month and two-month versions of OTX-TP. In our Phase 2a clinical trial, we evaluated two-month and three-month versions of OTX-TP. In our Phase 2b clinical trial, we evaluated an improved three-month version of OTX-TP. In our pilot studies, the OTX-TP depots we evaluated were violet to provide a visual assessment of depot position. In our subsequent Phase 2 clinical trials, we switched to a fluorescent yellow color to improve visibility and are using this same fluorescent marker in our Phase 2b clinical trial. 

In addition to the PEG-based hydrogel, OTX-TP contains bioresorbable microparticles which contain encapsulated travoprost. We designed OTX-TP to provide a sustained release of travoprost at therapeutic levels for the duration of therapy as the microparticles degrade. We provide OTX-TP in a sterile, single use package without any added preservatives. 

Overview of OTX-TP Clinical Development 

We are conducting clinical development of OTX-TP for glaucoma and ocular hypertension. Because OTX-TP incorporates an active pharmaceutical ingredient already approved by the FDA for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension, we did not need to conduct Phase 1 clinical trials for this product candidate. However, we did conduct two pilot studies to assess safety and to obtain initial efficacy data. The following summarizes our clinical development to date for OTX-TP. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In 2012, we conducted two pilot studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of two versions of OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension over a 30 to 60 day period. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In 2014, we completed a Phase 2a clinical trial of two versions of OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension to evaluate reduction in intraocular pressure over a 60 to 90 day period. This completed trial provided important information regarding the effects in patients of the drug delivery rates for our depots that informed the design of the OTX-TP depot that we are using in our Phase 2b clinical trial for this indication. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In the November 2014, we initiated a Phase 2b clinical trial of OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension to evaluate reduction in intraocular pressure over a 60 to 90 day period. We reported topline efficacy results from this trial in October 2015. There have been no hyperemia-related adverse events noted in any of the patients treated with OTX-TP. Further, there have been no serious adverse events observed to date in the Phase 2b trial. Adverse events noted include punctal stenosis, punctal trauma and canaliculitis. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; We are conducting additional NSR studies on additional modified depot design. We met with the FDA in January 2016 to discuss alternative Phase 3 clinical trial designs and to formulate our plans for our Phase 3 program. Based on feedback from a recent meeting with the FDA, we intend to commence the first of two planned Phase 3 clinical trials in the third quarter of 2016. The planned trial design for the two Phase 3 clinical trials includes an OTX-TP treatment arm and a placebo-controlled comparator arm that would use a non-drug-eluting depot. We do not expect that a timolol comparator or validation arm will be required in the study design and do not expect that eye drops, placebo or 

&#160;

active, will be administered in either arm. We expect that the FDA will require that OTX-TP show both a statistically superior reduction of intraocular pressure, when compared to the placebo, as a primary efficacy endpoint, and a clinically meaningful reduction of intraocular pressure in the absolute. We expect to hold an end of Phase 2 meeting with the FDA in the second quarter of 2016 and finalize the Phase 3 clinical trial protocol at that time. 

Clinical Trials for Glaucoma and Ocular Hypertension 

Completed Singapore Pilot Study 

In 2012, we completed a prospective, single arm, open label pilot study evaluating the initial safety and efficacy of the one-month version of OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension. We conducted this trial in 17 patients, and in 26 eyes, at two sites in Singapore. 

We enrolled patients in this trial who were at least 21 years of age with a documented diagnosis of ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma, baseline intraocular pressure within a specified range and a specified minimum level of visual acuity in each eye. The trial protocol provided that if the participant&#146;s intraocular pressure was high despite treatment with OTX-TP, rescue medication would be made available to the patient. For patients who were currently under treatment for ocular hypertension or glaucoma, we required a drug washout period for these medications between screening and first visit. 

We evaluated patients at days 3, 10, 20 and 30 following insertion of the depot and made the following assessments: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; mean intraocular pressure at 8:00 a.m. at each evaluation date as measured in millimeters of mercury, or mmHg; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; mean intraocular pressure at 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. at days 10, 20 and 30; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; change in mean intraocular pressure from baseline at each time point measured; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; retention of the depot in the canaliculus at days 10, 20 and 30. We assessed intraocular pressure at multiple time points on each evaluation date because intraocular pressure naturally varies over the course of the day. 

For patients who are affected bilaterally, if both eyes met all eligibility criteria, both eyes were treated, but only the eye with the higher mean intraocular pressure at baseline was included in the efficacy analysis. 

Efficacy: On day 10, 100% of the depots were retained, on day 20, 88% of the depots were retained, and on day 30, 79% of the depots were retained. 

&#160;

We observed a clinically meaningful reduction in mean intraocular pressure over the 30 day trial period. For eyes that retained the depot, from a mean baseline intraocular pressure of 27.2 mmHg, the mean intraocular pressure during treatment was maintained at or below 22 mmHg at each evaluation date and time point. The mean reduction in intraocular pressure from baseline ranged from 5.3 mmHg (20%) to 8.2 mmHg (30%) across all evaluation dates and time points. In studies conducted by third parties, a sustained 5.0 mmHg reduction in intraocular pressure reduced risk of disease progression by approximately 50%. The results for change in mean intraocular pressure from baseline at 8:00 a.m. on each evaluation date are set forth in the graph below. 

&#160;

Safety: In this trial, there were no serious adverse events or unanticipated adverse events. There was only one adverse event, bilateral epiphora, or excess tearing of both eyes, which was transient in nature and completely resolved after depot removal. There were no significant changes in hyperemia scores from baseline through day 30. There were no notable observations of clinical relevance among the slit lamp biomicroscopy assessments. 

Completed South Africa Pilot Study 

In 2012, we completed a prospective, single arm, open label pilot study evaluating the initial safety and efficacy of the two-month version of OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension. We conducted this trial in 20 patients, and in 36 eyes, at two sites in South Africa. 

Enrollment criteria were comparable to our Phase 1 Singapore trial described above, except that the minimum patient age was 18. 

We evaluated patients at days 3, 15, 30, 45 and 60 following insertion of the depot and made the same assessments with respect to mean intraocular pressure, change in mean intraocular pressure from baseline and retention of the depot in the canaliculus at each evaluation date following day 3 as in our Phase 1 Singapore trial described above. 

Efficacy: On day 15, 97% of the depots were retained, on day 30, 92% of the depots were retained, on day 45, 78% of the depots were retained, and on day 60, 59% of the depots were retained. Because of the limitations of the visualization of the violet color through pigmented eyelids, it is possible that intracanalicular depots identified as not being retained were in fact retained but not visible, particularly given the sustained reduction in intraocular pressure through day 60 described below. We have since eliminated the violet colorant in favor of a fluorescent PEG hydrogel, resulting in greatly improved visualization. 

&#160;

We observed a clinically meaningful reduction in mean intraocular pressure over the 60 day trial period. For eyes that retained the depot, from a mean baseline intraocular pressure of 28.7 mmHg, the mean intraocular pressure during treatment was maintained at or below 22.0 mmHg beginning on day 15 and at all subsequent evaluation dates. The mean reduction in intraocular pressure from baseline ranged from 5.0 mmHg (18%) to 7.1 mmHg (25%) across all evaluation dates and time points. The results for change in mean intraocular pressure from baseline at 8:00 a.m. on each evaluation date are set forth in the graph below for patients who retained the depot on such date. 

&#160;

There were only two cases in which intraocular pressure remained high even though the depot was confirmed to be present. In each of these cases, the investigator prescribed rescue medication at the end of the visit. It is possible that this elevated intraocular pressure was the result of the participants not responding to travoprost. 

Safety: In this trial, there were no serious adverse events or unanticipated adverse events. The most common adverse event was inflammatory reaction, which was noted in three patients. All adverse events were transient in nature and completely resolved by the end of the trial. There were no significant changes in hyperemia scores from baseline through day 60. There were no notable observations of clinical relevance among the slit lamp biomicroscopy assessments. 

Completed South Africa Phase 2a Clinical Trial 

In May 2014, we completed a prospective, randomized, multi-arm, active-controlled, multicenter, double masked Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of two versions of OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension. The OTX-TPa version was intended to release travoprost over a two-month period, and the OTX-TPb version was intended to release travoprost at a slower rate over a three-month period. Based on in vitro testing, the OTX-TPa version had an average daily drug delivery rate of 3.5 micrograms per day and the OTX-TPb version had an average daily drug delivery rate of 2.8 micrograms per day. We conducted this trial in 41 patients at four sites in South Africa. In this trial, we randomized 11 patients for treatment with OTX-TPa and placebo eye drops, 17 patients for treatment with OTX-TPb and placebo eye drops and 13 patients for treatment with a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot without active drug and timolol eye drops. One patient randomized into the timolol group was excluded from the trial because the investigator was unable to insert the depot. We randomized more patients in the OTX-TPb group than in the OTX-TPa group because we ceased enrolling patients in the OTX-TPa group during the trial based on an amendment to our trial protocol intended to facilitate the completion of the trial and to allow us to evaluate a larger number of patients being treated with a three-month version of the depot. Timolol is the most commonly prescribed non-PGA drug for the treatment of glaucoma and has been used as a comparator drug in pivotal clinical trials for other approval glaucoma products. 

&#160;

The primary efficacy endpoints in this trial are differences between treatment groups in: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; mean change in intraocular pressure from baseline on each evaluation date and at each time point; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; mean percent change in intraocular pressure from baseline on each evaluation date and at each time point; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; mean intraocular pressure on each evaluation date and at each time point. We designed our Phase 2a clinical trial to assess clinically meaningful response to treatment, and did not power the trial to measure any efficacy endpoints with statistical significance. We also evaluated retention of the depot as a secondary endpoint. 

We enrolled patients in this trial who were at least 18 years of age with a documented diagnosis of ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma, baseline intraocular pressure within a specified range and a specified minimum level of visual acuity in each eye. We excluded patients from this trial if, among other reasons, they had a history of inadequate response to treatment with prostaglandins or beta-blockers. For patients who were currently under treatment for ocular hypertension or glaucoma, we required a drug washout period for these medications between screening and first visit. 

We evaluated patients at days 3, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75 and 90 following insertion of the depot and made the following assessments: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; mean intraocular pressure at 8:00 a.m. at each evaluation date; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; mean intraocular pressure at 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. at days 30, 60 and 90; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; change in mean intraocular pressure from baseline at each time point measured; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; retention of the depot in the canaliculus at each evaluation date. For patients who are affected bilaterally, if both eyes met all eligibility criteria, both eyes were treated, but only the eye with the higher mean intraocular pressure at baseline was included in the primary efficacy analysis. 

We evaluated safety in all patients at each study visit with an assessment of general eye conditions, including visual acuity, along with any adverse events. 

Efficacy: In the timolol group, for eyes that retained the depot, from a mean baseline intraocular pressure of 26.1 mmHg, the mean intraocular pressure during treatment was maintained at or below 21.4 mmHg beginning on day 15 and at all subsequent evaluation dates and time points. The mean reduction in intraocular pressure from baseline ranged from 3.2 mmHg (13%) to 6.4 mmHg (25%) across all evaluation dates and time points through day 75. 

In the OTX-TPa group, for eyes that retained the depot, from a mean baseline intraocular pressure of 25.8 mmHg, the mean intraocular pressure during treatment was maintained at or below 21.0 mmHg beginning on day 15 and at all subsequent evaluation dates and time points through day 75. The OTX-TPa formulation, originally intended to deliver drug over a two-month period, exceeded our expectations, delivering drug for 75 days. The mean reduction in intraocular pressure from baseline ranged from 3.2 mmHg (14%) to 6.0 mmHg (24%) across all evaluation dates and time points through day 75. 

In OTX-TPb group, for eyes that retained the depot, from a mean baseline intraocular pressure of 26.4 mmHg, the mean intraocular pressure during treatment was maintained at or below 22.2 mmHg beginning on day 15 and at all subsequent evaluation dates and time points. The mean reduction in intraocular pressure from baseline ranged from 2.0 mmHg (9%) to 5.4 mmHg (20%) across all evaluation dates and time points. 

The results for change in mean intraocular pressure for patients in the OTX-TPa group, for patients in the OTX-TPb group and for patients in the timolol group from baseline at 8:00 a.m. on each applicable evaluation date are set forth in the graph below, in each case for patients who retained the depot on such date. We believe 

&#160;

that the lower average daily drug delivery rate in the OTX-TPb group resulted in less reduction of mean intraocular pressure in this group as compared to the OTX-TPa group. As discussed below, we evaluated an improved three-month version of OTX-TP in our Phase 2b clinical trial. 

&#160;

Safety: In this trial, there were no serious adverse events. The most common adverse event was inflammatory reaction, which was noted in five patients. All adverse events were transient in nature and resolved by the end of the trial. There were no significant changes in hyperemia scores from baseline through day 90. There were no notable observations of clinical relevance among the slit lamp biomicroscopy assessments. 

Completed U.S. Phase 2b Clinical Trial 

In November 2014, we initiated a prospective, randomized, parallel-arm, active-controlled, multicenter, double-masked Phase 2b clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension after submitting an IND to the FDA for this indication. We treated 73 patients at 11 sites in the United States pursuant to our effective IND. We randomized patients in a 1:1 ratio to receive either OTX-TP and placebo eye drops or a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot without active drug and eye drops containing timolol. Patients were instructed to use the placebo drops or timolol drops twice daily for the duration of the trial. Based on the results of our completed Phase 2a clinical trial, we designed the OTX-TP depot for use in our Phase 2b clinical trial to deliver drug over a 90 day period at the same daily rate as the OTX-TPa depot used in the Phase 2a clinical trial. To achieve this, we modified the design of the OTX-TP depot to enlarge it in order to enable the depot to carry a greater amount of drug. We previously evaluated in our Phase 1 clinical trial of OTX-MP in patients following cataract surgery a depot of similar length to the depot we are using in our Phase 2b clinical trial. These structural changes were previously evaluated in NSR studies that we describe below. 

The primary efficacy endpoint in this trial was the difference between treatment groups in the mean change in intraocular pressure from baseline at day 60 following insertion of the intracanalicular depot, calculated by averaging the change from baseline across the three time points at the assessment date, which is known as diurnal intraocular pressure. The secondary efficacy endpoints in this trial were the difference between treatment groups in the mean change from baseline in average diurnal intraocular pressure at day 90, the difference between treatment groups in the mean change from baseline in intraocular pressure at each individual time point at day 60 and day 90, the difference between treatment groups in the mean change in average diurnal intraocular pressure and intraocular pressure at each individual time point at day 60 and day 90, and the difference between treatment groups in the mean percent change from baseline in average diurnal intraocular pressure and intraocular pressure 

&#160;

at each individual time point at day 60 and 90. We designed our Phase 2b clinical trial to assess clinically meaningful response to treatment, and did not power the trial to measure any efficacy endpoints with statistical significance. 

We enrolled patients in this trial who are at least 18 years of age with a documented diagnosis of ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma, baseline intraocular pressure within a specified range and a specified minimum level of visual acuity in each eye. We excluded patients from this trial if, among other reasons, they had a history of inadequate response to treatment with prostaglandins or beta-blockers. For patients under treatment for ocular hypertension or glaucoma, we required a drug washout period for these medications between screening and first visit. We also evaluated the effect of a four week and five week washout duration on the change in 8:00 a.m. intraocular pressure in both groups. 

We evaluated patients at days 3, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75 and 90 (with insertion of the depot on day 1) and made the following assessments: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; mean intraocular pressure and change in mean intraocular pressure from baseline at 8:00 a.m. at days 3, 15, 45 and 75; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; mean intraocular pressure and change in mean intraocular pressure from baseline at 8:00 a.m., 12:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. at days 30, 60 and 90. We also collected data on intracanalicular depot presence along with visualization of the depot by both the study patient and the investigator. The patients were instructed to assess depot presence on a daily basis and report the absence of a depot immediately. This data has provided a method for us to assess the accuracy of patient self-examination for depot presence, and we expect that this will maximize the consistency of dosing. 

We evaluated safety in all patients at each study visit with an assessment of general eye conditions, including visual acuity, along with any adverse events. 

Efficacy: 

In this trial, the mean change from baseline intraocular pressure at 8:00 a.m. on day 30, 60, and 90 in the OTX-TP group was a decrease of 4.5, 4.7, and 5.1 mm Hg, respectively. 

In this trial, on day 60, the OTX-TP group experienced a mean diurnal intraocular pressure lowering effect of 3.3 mmHg compared to baseline, versus mean diurnal intraocular pressure lowering of 5.9 mmHg compared to baseline for the timolol group. On day 90, the OTX-TP group experienced a mean diurnal IOP lowering effect of 3.6 mmHg compared to baseline, versus mean diurnal intraocular pressure lowering of 6.3 mmHg compared to baseline for the timolol group. 

On day 60, the OTX-TP group experienced a mean intraocular pressure lowering effect compared to baseline of 4.7 mmHg at 8:00 a.m., 2.3 mmHg at 12:00 p.m. and 2.8 mmHg at 4:00 p.m., versus mean intraocular pressure lowering compared to baseline of 6.4 mmHg at 8:00 a.m., 6.1 mmHg at 12:00 p.m. and 5.6 mmHg at 4:00 p.m. for the timolol group. On day 90, the OTX-TP group experienced a mean intraocular pressure lowering effect compared to baseline of 5.1 mmHg at 8:00 a.m., 2.5 mmHg at 12:00 p.m. and 3.0 mmHg at 4:00 p.m., versus a mean intraocular pressure lowering effect compared to baseline of 7.2 mmHg at 8:00 a.m., 6.1 mmHg at 12:00 p.m. and 5.5 mmHg at 4:00 p.m. for the timolol group. 

The mean intraocular pressure in the OTX-TP treatment group on day 60 was 21.73 mmHG at 8:00 a.m., 22.27 mmHg at 12:00 p.m. and 21.42 mmHg at 4:00 p.m. In the timolol group, the mean intraocular pressure on day 60 was 20.74 mmHg at 8:00 a.m., 19.05 mmHg at 12:00 p.m. and 18.85 mmHg at 4:00 p.m. The mean intraocular pressure in the OTX-TP treatment group on day 90 was 21.33 mmHg at 8:00 a.m., 22.09 mmHg at 12:00 p.m. and 21.18 mmHg at 4:00 p.m. In the timolol group, the mean intraocular pressure on day 90 was 19.87 mmHg at 8:00 a.m., 19.08 mmHg at 12:00 p.m. and 18.95 mmHg at 4:00 p.m. 

&#160;

The mean diurnal intraocular pressure in the OTX-TP treatment group on day 60 was 21.81 mmHg. The mean diurnal intraocular pressure in the timolol treatment group on day 60 was 19.54 mmHg. 

The mean diurnal intraocular pressure in the OTX-TP treatment group on day 90 was 21.53 mmHg. The mean diurnal intraocular pressure in the timolol treatment group on day 90 was 19.3 mmHg. 

This Phase 2b glaucoma clinical trial was designed to evaluate the non-inferiority of OTX-TP compared to timolol and to inform the further clinical development for OTX-TP. This trial was not powered to show statistical significance between treatment groups. The OTX-TP treatment group included placebo eye drops that may have reduced the efficacy measures for OTX-TP, by washing out drug eluted from the depot from the ocular surface, whereas the timolol group included a placebo depot that may have improved the efficacy of timolol. Through occlusion of the punctum thereby prolonging its retention on the ocular surface. Several peer-reviewed medical journals have reported studies in which an additional intraocular pressure lowering effect of 1.32 to 1.80 mmHg was observed in patients taking timolol eye drops in combination with a non-drug eluting punctum plug compared to those patients only taking timolol eye drops. These include studies reported in September 2011 in Clinical and Experimental Optometry , February 1989 in the American Journal of Ophthalmology and August 1996 in Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica . The expected design for our Phase 3 clinical trials of OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension is addressed below under &#147;&#151;Regulatory Pathway&#148;. 

In the timolol group, the mean intraocular pressure at day 30, 60 and 90 at all time points ranged from 18.9 mmHg to 20.7 mmHg. The mean reduction in intraocular pressure from baseline at day 30, 60 and 90 at all time points ranged from 5.3 mmHg to 7.3mmHg. 

In the OTX-TP group, the mean intraocular pressure at day 30, 60 and 90 at all time points ranged from 21.0 mmHg to 22.3 mmHg. The mean reduction in intraocular pressure from baseline at day 30, 60 and 90 at all time points ranged from 2.3 mmHg to 5.2 mmHg. 

In our completed South Africa Phase 2a clinical trial in which OTX-TP intracanalicular depots were inserted in 36 eyes in 20 patients with no placebo eye drops used, on day 30 we observed a reduction in intraocular pressure of 6.1 mmHg at 8:00 a.m., 5.1 mmHg at 12:00 p.m. and 5.6 mmHg at 4:00 p.m. following insertion of the intracanalicular depot. In this trial, on day 60 we observed a reduction in intraocular pressure of 6.7 mmHg at 8:00 a.m., 5.1 mmHg at 12:00 p.m. and 4.3 mmHg at 4:00 p.m. following insertion of the intracanalicular depot. The diurnal averages of the reduction in the intraocular pressure were 5.6 mmHg at day 30 and 5.4 mmHg at day 60 in this trial. We believe that the higher intraocular pressure reduction observed in this trial may be due to the lack of placebo eye drops. 

We performed additional post-hoc analyses that were not pre-specified in the trial protocol for the Phase 2b glaucoma clinical trial to provide further insight on the performance of OTX-TP. Although post-hoc analyses performed using an unlocked clinical trial database can result in the introduction of bias, we believe that these analyses provide important information regarding our OTX-TP product candidate and are helpful in determining the study population and inclusion and exclusion criteria for future clinical trials. When we excluded patients on more than one glaucoma medication and used the baseline of five weeks of washout for comparisons of the OTX-TP group and the timolol group, the differences in mean reduction in intraocular pressure between the OTX-TP treatment group and the timolol group at the 8:00 a.m. time point on day 30, 60 and 90 narrowed to an average of 1.1 mmHg from an average of 2.2 mmHg based on the pre-specified criteria. These results are shown in the table below: 

&#160;

8:00 am Results for Intraocular Pressure (mmHg) 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Intent to Treat Population &#160; &#160; Post-hoc analysis Baseline of 5 weeks, single drug only &#160; &#160; &#160; OTX-TP &#160; &#160; Timolol &#160; &#160; OTX-TP &#160; &#160; Timolol &#160; Day 30

&#160; &#160; -4.5 &#160; &#160; &#160; -6.6 &#160; &#160; &#160; -4.9 &#160; &#160; &#160; -6.2 &#160; Day 60

&#160; &#160; -4.7 &#160; &#160; &#160; -6.4 &#160; &#160; &#160; -5.3 &#160; &#160; &#160; -6.2 &#160; Day 90

&#160; &#160; -5.1 &#160; &#160; &#160; -7.3 &#160; &#160; &#160; -5.7 &#160; &#160; &#160; -7.2 &#160; Average 

&#160; &#160; -4.8 &#160; &#160; &#160; -7.0 &#160; &#160; &#160; -5.6 &#160; &#160; &#160; -6.7 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Difference 

&#160; &#160; -2.2 &#160; &#160; &#160; -1.1 &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160;

In this trial, depots were found to be retained in 91% of patients at day 60, 88% of patients at day 75 and 48% of patients at day 90, reflecting the corresponding absorption and clearance of the depots with the duration of drug release. 

Safety: In this trial, there were no serious adverse events. Adverse events noted to date including punctal stenosis, punctal trauma and canaliculitis. The most common adverse event was inflammatory reaction of the lacrimal punctum and/or canaliculus, which was noted in five patients. These adverse events were transient in nature and resolved by the end of the trial. There were no significant changes in hyperemia scores from baseline through day 90 and there were no hyperemia related adverse events. There were no notable observations of clinical relevance among the slit lamp biomicroscopy assessments. 

Non-Significant Risk Retention Studies 

We conduct medical device NSR IDE studies on an ongoing basis for the purpose of refining our intracanalicular depot product and placement procedure. We conduct these NSR studies under FDA IDE regulations, although no specific FDA approval is required. We are able to conduct NSR studies because intracanalicular depots without active drug are well established ophthalmic medical devices. The NSR study process allows us to make relatively quick evaluations of our intracanalicular depot design and placement procedure in human subjects. 

In a series of completed NSR studies, we have effected compositional and dimensional adjustments to our intracanalicular depot to optimize retention. We have also used these studies to evaluate intracanalicular depot placement, as well as removal and repeat placements and have seen a range of results in NSR studies to date, with one recent study achieving a retention rate as high as 92% at day 90. 

We expect to use an intracanalicular depot design in our Phase 3 clinical trials of OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension that is slightly smaller than the plug design used in the Phase 2b clinical trial. We also plan to use an intracanalicular depot design in these trials that has a rapidly dissolvable tip that enables greater ease of insertion of the depot. 

We believe that with the current level of retention with our intracanalicular depot design and given the ability of patients to assess the presence of the depot as a result of the fluorescent label, our current product design offers a potentially significant improvement over the current standard of care with patients receiving prostaglandin analogs. The compliance rate with prostaglandin analog eye drops has been shown to be only approximately 50% after six months of therapy due to the challenges of administration and side effects including hyperemia, or red eye. 

Regulatory Pathway 

Based on a meeting with the FDA in January 2016, we expect to pursue a protocol design for our Phase 3 clinical trials that focuses on a comparison of the OTX-TP arm against a vehicle placebo arm. We do not expect that we will be required to use placebo drops in this trial or include a timolol reference arm. We also expect to exclude patients on more than one glaucoma medication in our Phase 3 clinical trials. We expect to have an end of Phase 2 meeting with the FDA in the second quarter of 2016 to discuss the results of the Phase 2b trial and finalize the protocol for our planned Phase 3 trials. We will be required to successfully complete two well controlled Phase 3 clinical trials of OTX-TP conducted under an IND to obtain marketing approval from the FDA. The FDA has indicated that we will need to study a minimum of 500 treated patients for an exposure duration of three months in these pivotal clinical trials, with 300 of these patients studied further up to six months and with 150 of these patients studied up to 12 months for safety evaluations. In the first Phase 3 clinical trial, we expect patients to be randomized in a 3:2 ratio to receive either OTX-TP or a placebo vehicle control intracanalicular depot without active drug. We expect that the primary efficacy endpoints for these pivotal clinical trials will be similar to our recently completed Phase 2b clinical trial, as described above. However, 

&#160;

unlike our Phase 2b clinical trial, we expect that the pivotal clinical trials will be adequately powered with an appropriate number of patients to measure with statistical significance the superiority of OTX-TP compared to a vehicle control intracanalicular depot based on the primary efficacy endpoint. We also expect that there will be a requirement for OTX-TP to demonstrate clinically meaningful intraocular pressure lowering. If we obtain favorable results from these pivotal clinical trials, we would plan to submit an NDA to the FDA for marketing approval of OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension. We expect that we would submit this NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. See &#147;&#151;Governmental Regulation&#151;Section 505(b)(2) NDAs&#148; for additional information. 

Moxifloxacin Intracanalicular Depot (OTX-MP) 

Our OTX-MP product candidate incorporates the antibiotic moxifloxacin as an active pharmaceutical ingredient. We have completed a Phase 1 clinical trial of OTX-MP evaluating safety and pharmacokinetics in patients following cataract surgery. Although we believe that OTX-MP has potential to treat bacterial conjunctivitis and corneal ulcers, we are currently prioritizing our allocation of resources to the clinical development of our DEXTENZA and OTX-TP clinical development programs and do not have plans currently to allocate clinical development resources to later stage clinical testing of OTX-MP. We will continue to assess our strategy and, if resources are available to fund this program, we would expect to initiate additional clinical trials to evaluate OTX-MP for a particular ocular infection indication. If we determine to proceed with later stage clinical testing of OTX-MP, we expect to select the specific indication for clinical development based on our assessment of clinical and regulatory pathways, including the relative expected costs and availability of our resources. 

We selected moxifloxacin as the active pharmaceutical ingredient for OTX-MP because it: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is approved by the FDA for bacterial conjunctivitis; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is available on a generic basis; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; offers high lethality against gram-positive organisms while maintaining gram-negative lethality; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is available from multiple qualified suppliers; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; has physical properties that are well suited for incorporation within our intracanalicular depots. Completed Phase 1 Clinical Trial 

In 2010, we completed a prospective, single center, single arm, open label Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating the initial safety and pharmacokinetics of OTX-MP in post-cataract surgery patients. We conducted the trial in 10 patients at one site in Singapore. 

We enrolled patients in this trial who were at least 21 years of age undergoing clear corneal cataract surgery. We evaluated patients at days 1, 3, 7, 10, 20 and 30 following insertion of the depot and made the following assessments: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; retention of the depot in the canaliculus on each evaluation date; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; moxifloxacin level in tear fluid on each evaluation date; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ease of use. Efficacy : We have designed our OTX-MP product candidate to provide for the release of moxifloxacin over a period of up to two weeks and to be fully resorbed by day 30. In this trial, the depot was present in 100% of eyes through day 10 and 0% of eyes at day 30. This indicates the depot functioned as designed for retention and for resorption. The mean concentration level of moxifloxacin in tear fluid at each post-surgical evaluation date through day 10 was above the MIC 90 potency threshold. The MIC 90 measurement establishes the concentration of a drug needed to inhibit the growth of 90% of a panel of bacterial strains isolated from patients. OTX-MP was 

&#160;

able to maintain effective concentration levels of moxifloxacin in the tear fluid over the target 7 to 10 day period, as shown in the chart below. No drug was detectable at day 30. 

&#160;

The investigator who administered the OTX-MP rated the product as &#147;easy&#148; to use for nine of 10 (90%) cases and as &#147;difficult&#148; to use in one (10%) of the cases. 

Safety: There were no serious adverse ocular events or other significant adverse ocular events in this trial. 

Regulatory Pathway 

If we were to advance the clinical development of our OTX-MP product candidate for the treatment of a particular ocular infection indication, we would expect to initiate a Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate OTX-MP for such indication. We would then be required to successfully complete two well controlled Phase 3 clinical trials conducted under an IND to obtain marketing approval from the FDA. At least one of the Phase 3 clinical trials would be conducted in the United States. If we were to obtain favorable results from these two pivotal clinical trials, we would plan to submit an NDA to the FDA for marketing approval of OTX-MP for such indication. We expect that we would submit this NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. See &#147;&#151;Government Regulation&#151;Section 505(b)(2) NDAs.&#148; 

Intravitreal Depot 

We are engaged in a preclinical development program of a sustained-release hydrogel depots administered via intravitreal injection to address the large and growing markets for diseases and conditions of the back of the eye. Our current development efforts are focused on the use of our sustained-release hydrogel depot in combination with anti-angiogenic compounds, including anti-VEGF compounds, for the treatment of wet AMD. Our initial depots have provided sustained release in vitro of an anti-VEGF compound over a four to six month period, which we believe could make it possible to reduce the frequency of the current monthly or bi-monthly intravitreal injection regimen for wet AMD. In addition, we have achieved sustained delivering and pharmacodynamic effect in vivo of up to three months. The two strategies being pursued are as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; We are evaluating an intravitreal depot consisting of a PEG-based hydrogel matrix containing embedded micronized particles of a large molecule protein-based anti-VEGF compound. We designed the injection to be delivered to the vitreous chamber of the eye using fine gauge needles. We are collaborating on this program with several different pharmaceutical companies using protein-based anti-angiogenic agents and are also conducting our own internal preclinical development using the anti-VEGF agent bevacizumab. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; We are also researching the delivery of small molecule TKIs from our hydrogel depot and have narrowed our search down to a single lead candidate. We have conducted initial preclinical work on this compound and have achieved sustained delivery and pharmacodynamic effect in vivo in excess of five months. We 

&#160;

&#160; believe this class of drugs is well suited for use with our platform given its high potency, multi-target capability, and compatibility with a hydrogel vehicle. In the absence of a sophisticated drug delivery system, these drugs have been difficult to deliver to the eye for acceptable time frames at therapeutic levels without causing local and systemic toxicity due to low drug solubility and very little short half-lives in solution. We believe our local drug delivery technology gives us potential advantages in this regard. By selecting compounds that are compatible with our hydrogel platform technology and that will have expiration of relevant patents within the timeline of our development program, we would also avoid the need to license these molecules, thus retaining full worldwide rights to any products we develop. 

We are conducting these small and large molecule sustained delivery programs in parallel. The protein-based anti-angiogenic drug delivery program is focused currently on protein-based anti-VEGF drugs, which would require the involvement of a collaboration partner. 

In Vitro and Pre-clinical results 

To date, in in vitro tests and preclinical studies, we have been able to incorporate antibody anti-VEGF drugs within our hydrogels, and our collaborators have been testing release rates and the integrity and activity of their compounds. We have achieved in vitro release over a four to six month duration. The released proteins have been stable, with no chemical or functional changes observed. 

Our hydrogel depot has shown initial tolerability and acceptable pharmacokinetics. We conducted an in vivo study to measure ocular tissue concentrations of bevacizumab after injection with and without our sustained-release hydrogel depot. The injection of bevacizumab without our hydrogel depot resulted in a first-order rate of drug clearance, as expected, with concentrations of bevacizumab decreasing in the ocular tissues with distance from the intravitreal injection site. The injection of our hydrogel depot containing bevacizumab showed the same decrease of tissue concentration of bevacizumab in successively distant tissues. However, the injection of our hydrogel depot containing bevacizumab resulted in a sustained level of drug over the course of the 30 day study. Further, a slight increase in levels of drug was observed in ocular tissues with the injection our hydrogel depot containing bevacizumab over the course of the study, which was consistent with our in vitro release data. After two weeks, the drug concentrations of the injection of our hydrogel depot containing bevacizumab exceeded those of bevacizumab injected without our hydrogel depot. More recently, we have conducted a pharmacodynamic study in a rabbit model, achieving activity against an intravitreal VEGF challenge after more than four months, with the study ongoing, compared to less than six weeks for a 1.25 mg bevacizumab intravitreal injection. This early feasibility study has provided us with initial encouraging data for our sustained-release hydrogel depot with bevacizumab and its potential capability of delivering active drug to ocular tissues in a sustained fashion and informs the additional preclinical activities we plan to pursue. Although these results have been encouraging, we will need to further optimize our hydrogels for the particular anti-VEGF molecules with which we are working. We are conducting additional studies to confirm these results and more consistently demonstrate sustained delivery and tolerability. We believe we have demonstrated initial feasibility sufficient to support the continuing preclinical development of this program and, if we obtain additional favorable preclinical results, advancement into Phase 1 clinical trials. 

We have conducted in vivo pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies with hydrogels loaded with a small molecule anti-angiogenic compound injected intravitreally. Pharmacokinetic data showed levels in excess of 3,000 times the amount of drug in retinal tissue after four months (the termination date of study was four months), and pharmacodynamic results show sustained efficacy for greater than five months, with the study ongoing. Additional dose ranging and tolerability studies are currently in progress.

We plan to continue working with our current pharmaceutical company collaborators for our large molecule back-of-the-eye program, with the goal of confirming the initial results that we have observed. We are also conducting our own internal preclinical development program and have seen encouraging results to date. If we 

&#160;

successfully complete our preclinical feasibility programs, we plan to explore a broader development and commercialization collaboration with one of the pharmaceutical companies we are currently working with or advance our internal development efforts through additional preclinical development and initial clinical trials. Given the initial positive results in feasibility studies with our intravitreal depot containing anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of back-of-the-eye diseases, including wet AMD, and the size of the market opportunity, we plan to commit additional resources to this program. We also believe there are other opportunities beyond anti-VEGF drugs to utilize our hydrogel depot for back-of-the-eye diseases, and we are conducting early exploratory research initiatives on certain of these opportunities. 

ReSure Sealant 

ReSure Sealant is a topical liquid hydrogel that creates a temporary, adherent, soft and lubricious sealant to prevent post-surgical leakage from clear corneal incisions that are made during cataract surgery. The main components of ReSure hydrogel are water and PEG. ReSure hydrogel is completely synthetic, with no animal or human derived components. The FDA granted marketing approval for ReSure Sealant in January 2014. We commercially launched ReSure Sealant in the United States in February 2014 through a network of ophthalmology focused distributors. 

We previously commercialized in Europe an earlier version of ReSure Sealant that was approved and marketed as an ocular bandage. However, we ceased our commercialization of the product in 2012 to focus on the ongoing clinical development of ReSure Sealant pursuant to FDA requirements after the FDA requested that we withdraw an application for the earlier version of ReSure Sealant that we had submitted under Section 510(k) of the FDCA because the FDA believed that the technical characteristics of the earlier version of ReSure Sealant were not substantially equivalent to a predicate device. After withdrawing our 510(k) application, we filed an IDE application to conduct a pivotal clinical trial to support approval of ReSure Sealant as an ocular sealant and subsequently received premarket approval, or PMA, from the FDA. 

Product Design 

A surgeon forms ReSure Sealant hydrogel by combining three components: PEG, a cross-linker and a diluent buffer solution. The cross-linker interacts with the PEG molecules to form a molecular network that comprises the hydrogel. The components are mixed to initiate the cross-linking reaction to form a biocompatible, resorbable hydrogel. The hydrogel is approximately 90% water and is blue in color to help the surgeon visualize the sealant during application. The surgeon applies the sealant to the corneal incision as a liquid using a soft foam-tipped applicator. The sealant forms a conformal coating that adheres to the ocular tissue through mechanical interlocking of the hydrogel with the tissue surfaces. The blue color fades within a few hours following surgery. The soft, pliable hydrogel remains on the corneal surface during the critical wound healing period of one to three days and provides a barrier to fluid leakage. ReSure Sealant softens over time, detaches and is sloughed off in the tears as a liquid or extremely soft gel pieces. ReSure Sealant is designed to completely liquefy over a five to seven day duration. Complete epithelial healing takes place over this time period, providing long-term wound closure. 

We provide ReSure Sealant in a sterile, single patient use package. The package contains a tray with two elongated mixing wells. Each well contains dried deposits of reactants, separated within the well. The package also contains one plastic dropper bottle filled with diluent solution and two applicators. The device is stored at room temperature for easy access. 

Commercial Strategy 

Our goals for ReSure Sealant are to provide a novel means of definitive wound closure in situations in which the surgeon would otherwise use sutures and to increase the number of procedures in which surgeons close 

&#160;

the wound following cataract surgery, instead of leaving the wound to self-seal. In a 2012 survey of ophthalmologists in the United States conducted by Lachman Consulting LLC, a healthcare consulting firm, respondents indicated that they use sutures in approximately 14% of cataract surgeries. As a result, the market opportunity for a surgical sealant following cataract surgery may be modest. However, we believe ReSure Sealant offers important benefits over sutures, including superior wound closure, a better safety profile and less follow-up. We sell ReSure Sealant through a network of independent medical device distributors across the United States. ReSure Sealant is not separately reimbursed when used as part of a cataract surgery procedure. 

We believe that the key factors affecting commercial demand for ReSure Sealant will be: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Fewer complications . We believe that surgeons will be more likely to use ReSure Sealant in complicated cases or cases involving immune-compromised patients in order to avoid the risk of a return patient visit, for which surgeons generally are not separately reimbursed. In complicated cases, the surgeon often must manipulate the eye more extensively in a procedure that takes more time, which results in a greater likelihood that the wound may not close properly. Immune-compromised patients, such as the elderly, are at greater risk of infection, which can require a return visit. According to Medicare data reported by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, complicated cases and immune-compromised patients represented approximately 8% of all Medicare cataract extraction procedures in 2013. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Less follow-up . We believe that surgeons may elect to use ReSure Sealant because, in contrast with sutures, there is no need for removal. This eliminates the need for a return patient visit for which the surgeon is not separately reimbursed. Removal of sutures also uses valuable clinic time and resources. In addition, ReSure Sealant does not induce astigmatism, a distortion of the cornea that can result from improper suture technique, thus further reducing the potential for a return patient visit. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Premium procedures . We believe surgeons will be more likely to use ReSure Sealant in cases in which patients opt for replacement intraocular lenses that are in a premium category because of the high quality closure it enables. Surgeons face less pricing pressure in these procedures because the patient is responsible for payment and reimbursement from insurance does not cover the cost of the procedure. In addition, because some premium procedures are particularly complicated, there is a greater likelihood that the wound may not close properly. According to Market Scope, premium lens cases represent approximately 14% of all cataract extraction procedures in the United States. ReSure Sealant Clinical Development 

We conducted a pivotal clinical trial evaluating the safety and effectiveness of ReSure Sealant compared to sutures for preventing incision leakage from clear corneal incisions. In connection with FDA approval of ReSure Sealant in January 2014, we have agreed to conduct two post-approval studies. The first post-approval registry study is designed to confirm whether ReSure Sealant can be used safely by physicians in a standard cataract surgery practice and to confirm the incidence of pre-specified adverse ocular events in eyes treated with ReSure Sealant. The second post-approval study is designed to ascertain the incidence of endophthalmitis in patients treated with ReSure Sealant. 

Pivotal Clinical Trial 

In 2013, we completed a prospective, randomized, parallel-arm, controlled, multicenter, subject-masked pivotal clinical trial evaluating the safety and effectiveness of ReSure Sealant. In this trial, we enrolled 488 patients at 24 sites across the United States. One patient was excluded prior to treatment because the surgeon was unable to achieve a dry ocular surface for application of ReSure Sealant. As a result, we randomized 304 patients for treatment with ReSure Sealant and 183 patients for treatment with sutures. Based on the trial protocol, 295 patients treated with ReSure Sealant and 176 patients treated with sutures completed study follow-up without a significant protocol deviation that directly affected the primary efficacy endpoint. 

&#160;

The primary efficacy endpoint was non-inferiority of ReSure Sealant to sutures for preventing incision leakage from clear corneal incisions within the first seven days following cataract surgery. A non-inferiority determination requires that the test product is not worse than the comparator by more than a small pre-specified margin. The non-inferiority margin for the ReSure Sealant pivotal clinical trial was a percentage difference in leak rates between ReSure Sealant and sutures of 5%. 

We randomized patients in a 5:3 ratio to receive either ReSure Sealant or sutures. All patients received a standardized self-sealing incision. 

Surgeons assessed incision leakage during the operation and during follow-up visits on days 1, 3, 7 and 28 after the procedure. During the pre-randomization intraoperative evaluation, the surgeons assessed whether there was any leakage based on a standard test called a Seidel test in conjunction with an application of force near the incision using a standardized tool and technique. The surgeon slowly applied force using the standardized tool that we provided until a leak was observed or until a pre-specified maximum force of one ounce of force was reached. In the assessments conducted during the operation, approximately 50% of leaks occurred spontaneously without application of force and 76% of leaks occurred with the application of 0.25 ounces of force or less. 

&#160;

Based on assessments conducted immediately following surgery, using the same standardized leak testing tool and technique, eyes receiving sutures leaked more frequently than eyes sealed with ReSure Sealant by a statistically significant margin of more than 8 to 1 (p&#60;0.0001). In this trial, ReSure Sealant demonstrated both non-inferiority and superiority relative to the suture control based on the proportion of eyes with leakage within the first seven days after surgery. These results are shown in the figures below. 

&#160;

&#160;

ReSure Sealant treated patients had significantly lower adverse event and device-related adverse event rates than patients treated with suture wound closure. We determined statistical significance based on a widely used, conventional statistical method that establishes the p-value of clinical results. Typically, a p-value of 0.05 or less represents statistical significance. In adverse events related to the study device, ReSure Sealant had a lower occurrence rate by a statistically significant margin of 1.6% for ReSure Sealant compared to 30.6% for sutures (p&#60;0.0001). There were no significant or clinically relevant differences in the other safety endpoints, including slit lamp examination findings, between ReSure Sealant and suture patients, thus indicating that ReSure Sealant is well tolerated. Only one ReSure Sealant treated patient out of 299 (0.3%) had a wound healing assessment characterized as outside of normal limits at the day 7 assessment due to the presence of mild stromal edema. No ReSure Sealant treated subjects were outside of normal limits at the day 28 assessment. In this trial, surgeons rated ReSure Sealant as &#147;easy&#148; or &#147;very easy&#148; to use for 94.1% of patients treated with ReSure Sealant. 

Post-Approval Studies 

ReSure Sealant is classified in the United States as a class III medical device subject to the rules and regulation of premarket approval by the FDA. Following our submission of a PMA application to the FDA for review and during the review process, the FDA completed compliance audits of our manufacturing facility and several of our pivotal clinical trial sites. Before granting approval of the PMA application, the FDA sought input from the Ophthalmic Devices Advisory Committee, a panel of physicians charged with reviewing results from our pivotal clinical trial. Upon the Advisory Committee&#146;s favorable recommendation, the FDA approved our PMA application for ReSure Sealant in January 2014. The FDA included two post-approval studies as a condition of the PMA application approval. We are required to provide periodic reports to the FDA on the progress of each post-approval study over the next four to five years. 

The first post-approval study is a prospective multicenter observational registry study that we will conduct at up to 40 centers in the United States. We are required to enroll at least 598 patients treated with ReSure Sealant. We may enroll a maximum of 120 patients at any one site. The goals of this study are to confirm that ReSure Sealant can be used safely by physicians in a standard cataract surgery practice and confirm the incidence in eyes treated with ReSure Sealant of the most prevalent adverse ocular events identified in the pivotal study. Enrollment in this post-approval study was initiated in December 2014 and enrollment was completed in December 2015 with 624 patients in 22 sites. We have completed all patient observations for this study and expect to report results in the second half of 2016. 

The second post-approval study is a multicenter observational single arm registry study that we will conduct at up to 100 centers in the United States. We are required to enroll at least 4,857 patients treated with ReSure Sealant. Patients having undergone cataract surgery will receive treatment with ReSure Sealant. Data from patients in this trial will be linked to a Medicare database. We will use the Medicare database link to ascertain if patients are diagnosed or treated for endophthalmitis within 30 days following the procedure. All patients that received at least one application of ReSure Sealant on the operative eye will be enrolled in the device exposure registry. Follow-up will consist of acquiring patient results from the Medicare database to report on the outcome of interest on at least an annual basis starting from the date Medicare data is available, for at least one year after completion of enrolling the last patient. In connection with ongoing discussions with the FDA and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, we submitted an application to CMS seeking a tracking or research code for the commercial use of ReSure Sealant. In December 2015, CMS denied our application for a tracking or research code. We are pursuing other options with FDA involving unique patient identifiers for conducting this registry study and expect to initiate the study by mid-year 2016. 

Foreign Approvals 

Outside the United States, we plan to assess whether to seek regulatory approval for ReSure Sealant in markets such as the European Union, Australia and Japan based on the market opportunity, particularly pricing, and the requirements for marketing approval. Given our prioritization of the clinical development of our 

&#160;

sustained-release product candidates and our planned commercialization efforts for our initial intracanalicular depot product candidates in the United States, we do not currently plan to seek CE Mark approval to commercialize ReSure Sealant in the European Union. Outside of the United States and the European Union, we will need to engage a third party to assist us in the approval process. If we obtain regulatory approval to market and sell ReSure Sealant in international markets, we expect to utilize a variety of types of collaboration, distribution and other marketing arrangements with one or more third parties to commercialize ReSure Sealant. See &#147;&#151;Government Regulation&#151;Review and Approval of Medical Devices in the European Union&#148; for additional information. 

Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

We began the commercial launch of ReSure Sealant in the United States in February 2014. We sell ReSure Sealant through a network of independent medical device distributors across the United States. These distributors are primarily exclusive to ophthalmology and focus on selling surgical products to cataract and cornea surgeons. We train each independent distributorship before it is permitted to sell the product to surgeons. In addition, surgeons must complete an online training session before ordering the product. We continue to build a marketing presence for ReSure Sealant in the ophthalmic marketplace through podium presence at major conventions, such as the American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery and the American Academy of Ophthalmology. We expect that our marketing organization will develop more promotional and educational initiatives while continuing to foster relationships with thought leaders to further build awareness of ReSure Sealant. 

We plan to prioritize our commercialization efforts in the United States. We generally expect to retain commercial rights in the United States to any of our sustained-release drug delivery product candidates for front-of-the-eye diseases and conditions for which we may receive marketing approvals and which we believe we can successfully commercialize. We may also consider co-promotion and other partnering arrangements in the United States as well. If we obtain FDA approval of our NDA for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular pain on the PDUFA action date, we expect to commercially launch this product in the U.S. in the first half of 2017. If the results of our third Phase 3 clinical trial of DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical inflammation and pain are favorable, we expect to submit an sNDA in order to get label expansion for post-surgical inflammation. Within the United States, we plan to initially use a contract sales organization, or CSO, to hire and deploy a sales force dedicated to selling DEXTENZA and to hire our own sales management team. We may also supplement the CSO sales force with a co-promotional arrangement with another ophthalmology company with an existing sales force. Over time, we may elect to selectively convert CSO sales representatives to direct employees. If OTX-TP is approved for marketing, we may use a combination of CSO and direct sales representatives, and potentially expand the size of the team, to commercialize OTX-TP as well. We expect that we will collaborate with a pharmaceutical company for the commercialization of our intravitreal depot for the delivery of anti-VEGF drugs for the treatment of back-of-the-eye diseases, including wet AMD, if approved for marketing. Alternatively, we may elect to pursue the internal development of an intravitreal depot and commercialization of this product with a direct sales force calling on retinal specialists. 

If we receive approval to market any of our product candidates in the United States, we plan to then evaluate the regulatory approval requirements and commercial potential for any such product candidate in Europe, Japan and other selected geographies. If we decide to commercialize our products outside of the United States, we expect to utilize a variety of types of collaboration, distribution and other marketing arrangements with one or more third parties to commercialize any product of ours that receives marketing approval. These may include independent distributors, pharmaceutical companies or our own direct sales organization. 

Manufacturing 

We fabricate devices and drug depot products for use in our clinical trials, research and development and commercial efforts for all of our therapeutic product candidates using current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, at our multi-product facility located in Bedford, Massachusetts. 

&#160;

We purchase active pharmaceutical ingredient drug substance from independent suppliers on a purchase order basis for incorporation into our drug depot products. We purchase our PEG and other raw materials from different vendors on a purchase order basis according to our specifications. Multiple vendors are available for each component we purchase. We qualify vendors according to our quality system requirements. We do not have any long term supply agreements in place for any raw materials or drug substances. We do not license any technology or pay any royalties to any of our drug or raw material vendors for the front-of-the-eye products. 

We believe that our strategic investment in manufacturing capabilities allows us to advance product candidates at a more rapid pace and with more flexibility than a contract manufacturer, although we will continue to evaluate outsourcing unit operations for cost advantages. Our manufacturing capability also enables us to produce products in a cost-effective manner while retaining control over the process and prioritize the timing of internal programs. 

Our manufacturing capabilities encompass the full manufacturing process through quality control and quality assurance and are integrated with our project teams from discovery through development and commercial release. This structure enables us to efficiently transfer research stage product concepts into manufacturing. We have designed our manufacturing facility and processes to provide maximum flexibility and rapid changeover for the manufacture of different product candidates. We outsource sterilization services for our products. 

We believe that we can scale our manufacturing processes to support ReSure Sealant sales as well as development of our intracanalicular depot and intravitreal depot product candidates and the potential commercialization of such product candidates. 

Intellectual Property 

Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our products, product candidates, technology and know-how, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We rely on patent protection, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. 

We have in-licensed all of our patent rights from Incept. The license from Incept is limited to the field of human ophthalmic diseases and conditions. As of March 1, 2016, we have licensed from Incept a total of 23 U.S. patents, seven U.S. patent applications and foreign counterparts of some of these patents and patent applications. Thirteen of the 23 licensed U.S. patents and four of the seven licensed U.S. patent applications cover the technology that underlies our intracanalicular depot product candidates, ReSure Sealant or our intravitreal depot. 

Intracanalicular Depot Product Candidates 

In the United States, we have licensed from Incept four patent families related to our intracanalicular depot product candidates, comprised of an aggregate of seven U.S. patents. The first patent family, which is licensed on an exclusive basis, is comprised of two U.S. patents that will expire in 2030 and covers composition and method claims specific to the drug delivery and design of the intracanalicular depots. The second and third patent families, which are licensed on an exclusive basis, are comprised of three U.S. patents that will expire between 2018 and 2020 and cover the hydrogel composition of the intracanalicular depots and methods of making and using hydrogel implants that swell in tissue tracts. The fourth patent family, which is licensed on a non-exclusive basis, is comprised of a U.S. patent that will expire in 2018 and a U.S. patent application that, if granted, will expire in approximately 2029 that collectively covers the hydrogel composition of OTX-TP and OTX-MP and the process of making them in combination with certain drug release particles. 

In the European Union and some other areas outside of the United States, we have licensed from Incept three patent families related to our intracanalicular depot product candidates, comprised of an aggregate of two 

&#160;

patents and nine patent applications. The first patent family, which is licensed on an exclusive basis, is comprised of one issued patent that will expire in approximately 2027 and one patent application that, if granted, will expire in approximately 2027; this family covers certain drug release features of the intracanalicular depots in combination with their hydrogel composition. The second patent family, which is licensed on an exclusive basis, is comprised of two issued patents that expire in 2030 and four patent applications that, if granted, will expire in approximately 2030 and covers composition and method claims related to the drug delivery and design of the intracanalicular depots, in combination with their hydrogel composition. The third patent family, which is licensed on a non-exclusive basis, is comprised of two patents that will expire in approximately 2019 and one patent application that, if granted, will expire in approximately 2019 and covers the hydrogel composition of the OTX-TP and OTX-MP intracanalicular depots in combination with certain drug release particles. 

ReSure Sealant 

In the United States, we have exclusively licensed from Incept two patent families comprised of six U.S. patents related to ReSure Sealant. One U.S. patent that will expire in 2024 covers the process of making and using compositions of the hydrogel. A second U.S. patent that will expire in 2032 covers certain features of the ReSure Sealant package. A third U.S. patent that expires in 2018 covers the hydrogel composition. The remaining three U.S. patents, which expire between 2017 and 2019, cover compositions and methods of making or using the hydrogel, in combination with a visualization agent. 

Outside of the United States, we have exclusively licensed only one patent in Canada that expires in 2019 that is directed to a medical kit for use with ReSure Sealant. 

Intravitreal Depot 

In the United States, we have exclusively licensed from Incept five patent families related to the intravitreal depot, comprised of an aggregate of two U.S. patent and four U.S. patent applications. The first patent family is comprised of a U.S. patent application that, if granted will expire in approximately 2027, and covers certain drug-release features of the hydrogel depot in combination with its hydrogel composition. The second patent family is comprised of one U.S. patent application that will expire in 2033 and one U.S. application that, if granted, will expire in approximately 2032; these cover the process of making the hydrogel depot with its drug release features and the resultant compositions. The third patent family, comprised of a U.S. patent that expires in 2019, covers the hydrogel composition of the hydrogel depot. The fourth patent family, comprised of a U.S. patent application that, if granted, will expire in approximately 2035, is directed to a drug delivery composition and method. The fifth patent family, comprised of one U.S. patent application that, if granted, will expire in approximately 2036, is directed to applicators for placement the drug delivery depot in the eye. 

In the European Union and some other areas outside of the United States, we have exclusively licensed from Incept four patent families related to the intravitreal depot. The first patent family is comprised of one patent and one patent application that if the application is granted, will expire in approximately 2027, and covers certain drug-release features of the hydrogel depot in combination with its hydrogel composition. The second patent family is comprised of seven patent applications that, if granted, will expire in approximately 2032. The third patent family is directed to a drug delivery depot in the eye. The fourth patent family is directed to our applicators for placing the drug delivery depot in the eye. The third and fourth patent families each have one PCT application that is expected to serve as the basis for filings in multiple countries outside of the United States and, if granted, will expire in approximately 2035 and 2036, respectively. 

The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term for patents in the countries in which they are granted. In most countries, including the United States, the patent term is generally 20 years from the earliest claimed filing date of a non-provisional patent application in the applicable country. In the United States, a patent&#146;s term may, in certain cases, be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the United States Patent and Trademark Office in examining and granting a patent, or 

&#160;

may be shortened if a patent is terminally disclaimed over a commonly owned patent or a patent naming a common inventor and having an earlier expiration date. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act, permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the expiration date of a U.S. patent as partial compensation for the length of time the drug is under regulatory review while the patent is in force. A patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval, only one patent applicable to each regulatory review period may be extended and only those claims covering the approved drug, a method for using it or a method for manufacturing it may be extended. 

Similar provisions are available in the European Union and certain other foreign jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. In the future, if and when our product candidates receive approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on issued patents covering those products, depending upon the length of the clinical trials for each drug and other factors. The expiration dates referred to above are without regard to potential patent term extension or other market exclusivity that may be available to us. 

We may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and contractors. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data. 

Licenses 

Incept, LLC 

In January 2012, we entered into an amended and restated license agreement with Incept under which we hold an exclusive, worldwide, perpetual, irrevocable license under specified patents and technology owned or controlled by Incept to make, have made, use, offer for sale, sell, sublicense, have sublicensed, offer for sublicense and import, products delivered to or around the human eye for diagnostic, therapeutic or prophylactic purposes relating to all human ophthalmic diseases or conditions. This license covers all of the patent rights and a significant portion of the technology for ReSure Sealant and our hydrogel platform technology product candidates. The agreement supersedes an April 2007 license agreement between us and Incept. Amar Sawhney, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is a general partner of Incept. 

Financial Terms. In connection with the agreement, we issued to Incept 443,068 shares of our common stock. In addition, on February 12, 2014, we issued to Incept 189,393 shares of our common stock in connection with the expansion of the scope of the license to include back-of-the-eye technology held by Incept. We are obligated to pay Incept a royalty equal to a low single-digit percentage of net sales made by us or our affiliates. Any sublicensee of ours also will be obligated to pay Incept a royalty equal to a low single-digit percentage of net sales made by it and will be bound by the terms of the agreement to the same extent as we are. 

We are obligated to reimburse Incept for our share of the reasonable fees and costs incurred by Incept in connection with the prosecution of the patent applications licensed to us under the agreement. Our share of these fees and costs is equal to the total amount of such fees and costs divided by the total number of Incept&#146;s exclusive licensees of the patent application. 

Assignment of Our Patents. Under the terms of the agreement, we have agreed to assign to Incept our rights in any patent application filed at any time in any country for which one or more inventors are under an obligation of assignment to us. These assigned patent applications and any resulting patents are included within the specified patents owned or controlled by Incept to which we receive a license under the agreement. Incept has retained rights to practice the patents and technology licensed to us under the agreement for all purposes other than for researching, designing, developing, manufacturing and commercializing products that are delivered to or around the human eye for diagnostic, therapeutic or prophylactic purposes relating to ophthalmic diseases or conditions. 

&#160;

Patent Prosecution and Litigation. The agreement provides that, with limited exceptions, Incept has sole control and responsibility for ongoing prosecution for the patents covered by the license agreement. We have the right to bring suit against third parties who infringe the patents covered by the license agreement, but we have agreed, if requested by Incept, to enter into a joint defense and prosecution agreement for the purpose of allowing the parties to share confidential and attorney-client privileged information regarding the possible infringement of one or more patents covered by the license agreement. We are responsible for all costs incurred in prosecuting any infringement action we bring. 

Term and Termination. The agreement, unless earlier terminated by us or Incept, will remain in effect until the expiration of the last to expire patent or patent application licensed to us under the agreement. The agreement provides that either party may terminate the agreement in the event of the other party&#146;s insolvency, bankruptcy or comparable proceedings, or if the other party materially breaches the agreement and does not cure such breach during a specified cure period. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. While we believe that our technologies, knowledge, experience and scientific resources provide us with competitive advantages, we face potential competition from many different sources, including major pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future. 

Our potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Many of our potential competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. 

The key competitive factors affecting the success of each of our product candidates, if approved for marketing, are likely to be its efficacy, safety, method of administration, convenience, price, the level of generic competition and the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from government and other third-party payors. 

Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors&#146; establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third-party payors seeking to encourage the use of generic products. 

Our product candidates target markets that are already served by a variety of competing products based on a number of active pharmaceutical ingredients. Many of these existing products have achieved widespread acceptance among physicians, patients and payors for the treatment of ophthalmic diseases and conditions. In 

&#160;

addition, many of these products are available on a generic basis, and our product candidates may not demonstrate sufficient additional clinical benefits to physicians, patients or payors to justify a higher price compared to generic products. In many cases, insurers or other third-party payors, particularly Medicare, seek to encourage the use of generic products. Given that we are developing products based on FDA-approved therapeutic agents, our product candidates, if approved, will face competition from generic and branded versions of existing drugs based on the same active pharmaceutical ingredients that are administered in a different manner, typically through eye drops. 

Because the active pharmaceutical ingredients in our product candidates are available on a generic basis, or are soon to be available on a generic basis, competitors will be able to offer and sell products with the same active pharmaceutical ingredient as our products so long as these competitors do not infringe the patents that we license. For example, our licensed patents related to our intracanalicular depot product candidates largely relate to the hydrogel composition of the intracanalicular depots and certain drug-release features of the intracanalicular depots. As such, if a third party were able to design around the formulation and process patents that we license and create a different formulation using a different production process not covered by our licensed patents or patent applications, we would likely be unable to prevent that third party from manufacturing and marketing its product. 

Competitors of our Intracanalicular Depot Product Candidates 

Several competitors are developing sustained drug release products for the same ophthalmic indications as our intracanalicular depot product candidates, as set forth below. 

Competitors of DEXTENZA 

Icon Biosciences, Inc. is conducting Phase 3 clinical development of IBI-10090, a biodegradable therapeutic for injection of dexamethasone into the anterior chamber of the eye to treat inflammation associated with cataract surgery. 

Competitors of OTX-TP 

Inotek Pharmaceuticals is in Phase 3 clinical development of an eye drop-based product candidate for the treatment of glaucoma and has designed their Phase 3 clinical trials as a superiority to a placebo control arm. Allergan, Inc. is conducting Phase 2 clinical development of Bimatoprost Sustained-Release, a biodegradable intraocular implant consisting of a PGA and a biodegradable polymer matrix to treat glaucoma. ForSight VISION5 is conducting Phase 2 clinical development of the Helios insert, a sustained-release ocular insert placed below the eyelid, that delivers bimatoprost for the treatment of glaucoma. In addition, several other companies have announced their intention to develop products for treatment of glaucoma using sustained-release therapy, although each of these is at an early stage of development. Mati Therapeutics is conducting Phase 2 clinical development of an intracanalicular depot for the treatment of glaucoma. Invisia Therapeutics is in Phase 2 clinical development of a sustained delivery product candidate delivering travoprost for the treatment of glaucoma. 

Competitors of ReSure Sealant 

ReSure Sealant is the first and only surgical sealant approved for ophthalmic use in the United States. Outside the United States, Beaver Visitec is commercializing its product OcuSeal, which is designed to provide a protective hydrogel film barrier to stabilize ocular wounds. This product is not currently available in the United States. Sutures are the primary alternative for closing ophthalmic wounds. In addition, a technique called stromal hydration, which involves the localized injection of a balanced salt solution at the wound edges, is often used to facilitate the self-sealing of a wound. 

&#160;

Competitors of our Intravitreal Depot 

Our intravitreal depot for the treatment of wet AMD will compete with anti-VEGF compounds administered in their current formulation and prescribed for the treatment of wet AMD as these agents can in some instances deliver one to two months or more of therapeutic effect. They include Lucentis, Eylea and off-label use of the cancer therapy Avastin. Multiple companies are exploring ways to deliver anti-VEGF products in a sustained-release fashion, although all are in early stages of development. Alcon is developing the Replenish pump to deliver its anti-VEGF agent. In addition, Ophthotech Corporation is currently conducting Phase 3 clinical trials of Fovista, an anti-platelet-derived growth factor, or PDGF, product candidate to be administered in combination with anti-VEGF compounds for the treatment of wet AMD. 

Government Regulation 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries and jurisdictions, including the European Union, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, clearance, approval, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, post-approval monitoring and reporting, and import and export of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and in foreign countries and jurisdictions, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations and other regulatory authorities, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

Review and Approval of Drugs in the United States 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the FDCA and implementing regulations. The failure to comply with the FDCA and applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval may subject an applicant or sponsor to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, including refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of warning letters and other types of letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement of profits, or civil or criminal investigations and penalties brought by the FDA and the Department of Justice, or DOJ, or other governmental entities. 

Our product candidates must be approved by the FDA through the NDA process before they may be legally marketed in the United States. An applicant seeking approval to market and distribute a new drug product in the United States must typically undertake the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA&#146;s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an IND, which must take effect before human clinical trials may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, representing each clinical site before each clinical trial may be initiated; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with current good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each indication; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; preparation and submission to the FDA of an NDA; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; review of the product candidate by an FDA advisory committee, where appropriate or if applicable; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of one or more FDA inspections of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product, or components thereof, are produced to assess compliance with cGMP requirements and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the product&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of FDA audits of clinical trial sites to assure compliance with GCPs and the integrity of clinical data; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; payment of user fees and securing FDA approval of the NDA; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; compliance with any post-approval requirements, including Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies, or REMS, where applicable, and post-approval studies required by the FDA. Preclinical Studies 

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of the purity and stability of the manufactured drug substance or active pharmaceutical ingredient and the formulated drug or drug product, as well as in vitro and animal studies to assess the safety and activity of the drug for initial testing in humans and to establish a rationale for therapeutic use. The conduct of preclinical studies is subject to federal regulations and requirements, including GLP regulations. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and plans for clinical studies, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. 

Companies usually must complete some long-term preclinical testing, such as animal tests of reproductive adverse events and carcinogenicity, and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug and finalize a process for manufacturing the drug in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and, among other things, the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final drug product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

Human Clinical Studies in Support of an NDA 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include, among other things, the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing before their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under written study protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the study, inclusion and exclusion criteria, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to a proposed clinical trial and places the trial on clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. Accordingly, submission of an IND may or may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence. For our intracanalicular depot product candidates, we have typically conducted our initial and earlier stage clinical trials outside the United States. We generally plan to conduct our later stage and pivotal clinical trials of our intracanalicular depot product candidates in the United States. To date, we have submitted two INDs to the FDA. The first IND was submitted in August 2012 and relates to DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular inflammation and pain and, pursuant to subsequent amendments submitted in February and November 2014, allergic conjunctivitis and inflammatory dry eye disease. We submitted a second IND to the FDA relating to OTX-TP for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension in the second half of 2014 prior to initiating our Phase 2b clinical trial of OTX-TP for this indication. 

In addition to the foregoing IND requirements, an IRB representing each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must conduct continuing review and reapprove the study at least annually. The IRB must review and approve, among other things, the study protocol and informed consent information to be provided to study 

&#160;

subjects. An IRB must operate in compliance with FDA regulations. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health for public dissemination on their ClinicalTrials.gov website. 

A sponsor who wishes to conduct a clinical trial outside the United States may, but need not, obtain FDA authorization to conduct the clinical trial under an IND. If a foreign clinical trial is not conducted under an IND, the sponsor may submit data from the clinical trial to the FDA in support of an NDA or IND so long as the clinical trial is conducted in compliance with an international guideline for the ethical conduct of clinical research known as the Declaration of Helsinki or the laws and regulations of the country or countries in which the clinical trial is performed, whichever provides the greater protection to the participants in the clinical trial. Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1: The drug is initially introduced into a small number of healthy human subjects or patients with the target disease or condition and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness and to determine optimal dosage. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2: The drug is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 3: The drug is administered to an expanded patient population, generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, in well-controlled clinical trials to generate enough data to statistically evaluate the efficacy and safety of the product for approval, to establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product, and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product. Phase 3 clinical trials are commonly referred to as &#147;pivotal&#148; trials, which typically denotes a trial which presents the data that the FDA or other relevant regulatory agency will use to determine whether or not to approve a drug. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. In addition, IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA for any of the following: serious and unexpected suspected adverse reactions; findings from other studies or animal or in vitro testing that suggest a significant risk in humans exposed to the drug; and any clinically important increase in the case of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigator brochure. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA, the sponsor, or the data monitoring committee may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution, or an institution it represents, if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. The FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP and the integrity of the clinical data submitted. 

Section 505(b)(2) NDAs 

NDAs for most new drug products are based on two full clinical studies which must contain substantial evidence of the safety and efficacy of the proposed new product. These applications are submitted under Section 505(b)(1) of the FDCA. The FDA is, however, authorized to approve an alternative type of NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. This type of application allows the applicant to rely, in part, on the FDA&#146;s previous findings of safety and efficacy for a similar product, or published literature. Specifically, Section 505(b)(2) applies to NDAs for a drug for which the investigations made to show whether or not the drug is safe for use and effective in use and relied upon by the applicant for approval of the application &#147;were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by or for whom the investigations were conducted.&#148; 

&#160;

Thus, Section 505(b)(2) authorizes the FDA to approve an NDA based on safety and effectiveness data that were not developed by the applicant. NDAs filed under Section 505(b)(2) may provide an alternate and potentially more expeditious pathway to FDA approval for new or improved formulations or new uses of previously approved products. If the 505(b)(2) applicant can establish that reliance on the FDA&#146;s previous approval is scientifically appropriate, the applicant may eliminate the need to conduct certain preclinical or clinical studies of the new product. The FDA may also require companies to perform additional studies or measurements to support the change from the approved product. The FDA may then approve the new drug candidate for all or some of the label indications for which the referenced product has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the Section 505(b)(2) applicant. 

If we obtain favorable results in our clinical trials, we plan to submit NDAs for our intracanalicular depot product candidates under Section 505(b)(2). 

Submission of an NDA to the FDA 

NDAs for most new drug products are based on two full clinical studies that must contain substantial evidence of the safety and efficacy of the proposed new product. Assuming successful completion of required clinical testing and other requirements, the results of the preclinical and clinical studies, together with detailed information relating to the product&#146;s chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug product for one or more indications. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs is additionally subject to an application user fee, currently exceeding $2.3 million, and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees, currently exceeding $114,000 per product and $585,000 per establishment. These fees are typically increased annually. Certain exceptions and waivers are available for some of these fees, such as an exception from the application fee for drugs with orphan designation and a waiver for certain small businesses and an exception from the establishment fee when the establishment does not engage in manufacturing the drug during a particular fiscal year. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of an NDA within 60 calendar days of its receipt and strives to inform the sponsor by the 74th day after the FDA&#146;s receipt of the submission whether the application is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. 

The FDA has agreed to specified performance goals in the review process of NDAs. Under that agreement, 90% of applications seeking approval of New Molecular Entities, or NMEs, are meant to be reviewed within ten months from the date on which FDA accepts the NDA for filing, and 90% of applications for NMEs that have been designated for &#147;priority review&#148; are meant to be reviewed within six months of the filing date. For applications seeking approval of drugs that are not NMEs, the ten-month and six-month review periods run from the date that FDA receives the application. The review process may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider new information or clarification provided by the applicant to address an outstanding deficiency identified by the FDA following the original submission. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is or will be manufactured. These pre-approval inspections cover all facilities associated with an NDA submission, including drug component manufacturing (such as active pharmaceutical ingredients), finished drug product manufacturing, and control testing laboratories. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. 

&#160;

The FDA is required to refer an application for a novel drug to an advisory committee or explain why such referral was not made. Typically, an advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Accelerated Approval Pathway 

The FDA may grant accelerated approval to a drug for a serious or life-threatening condition that provides meaningful therapeutic advantage to patients over existing treatments based upon a determination that the drug has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. The FDA may also grant accelerated approval for such a condition when the product has an effect on an intermediate clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality, or IMM, and that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. Drugs granted accelerated approval must meet the same statutory standards for safety and effectiveness as those granted traditional approval. 

For the purposes of accelerated approval, a surrogate endpoint is a marker, such as a laboratory measurement, radiographic image, physical sign, or other measure that is thought to predict clinical benefit, but is not itself a measure of clinical benefit. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. An intermediate clinical endpoint is a measurement of a therapeutic effect that is considered reasonably likely to predict the clinical benefit of a drug, such as an effect on IMM. The FDA has limited experience with accelerated approvals based on intermediate clinical endpoints, but has indicated that such endpoints generally may support accelerated approval where the therapeutic effect measured by the endpoint is not itself a clinical benefit and basis for traditional approval, if there is a basis for concluding that the therapeutic effect is reasonably likely to predict the ultimate clinical benefit of a drug. 

The accelerated approval pathway is most often used in settings in which the course of a disease is long and an extended period of time is required to measure the intended clinical benefit of a drug, even if the effect on the surrogate or intermediate clinical endpoint occurs rapidly. The accelerated approval pathway is usually contingent on a sponsor&#146;s agreement to conduct, in a diligent manner, additional post-approval confirmatory studies to verify and describe the drug&#146;s clinical benefit. As a result, a product candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials to confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to conduct required post-approval studies, or confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies, would allow the FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for product candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by the FDA. 

The FDA&#146;s Decision on an NDA 

On the basis of the FDA&#146;s evaluation of the NDA and accompanying information, including the results of the inspection of the manufacturing facilities, the FDA may issue an approval letter or a complete response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the product with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. 

If the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use for the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, require that post-approval studies, 

&#160;

including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess the drug&#146;s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require an applicant to develop a REMS. REMS use risk minimization strategies beyond the professional labeling to ensure that the benefits of the product outweigh the potential risks. To determine whether a REMS is needed, the FDA will consider the size of the population likely to use the product, seriousness of the disease, expected benefit of the product, expected duration of treatment, seriousness of known or potential adverse events, and whether the product is a new molecular entity. REMS can include medication guides, physician communication plans for healthcare professionals, and elements to assure safe use, referred to as ETASU. ETASU may include, but are not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring, and the use of patient registries. The FDA may require a REMS before approval or post-approval if it becomes aware of a serious risk associated with use of the product. The requirement for a REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of a product. 

The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-market studies or surveillance programs. After approval, many types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims, are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. 

In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third-party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, suspension of the approval, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Drugs may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability. 

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, as well as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, or DSCA, which regulate the distribution and tracing of prescription drugs and prescription drug samples at the federal level, and set minimum standards for the registration and regulation of drug distributors by the states. Both the PDMA and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples and impose requirements to ensure accountability in distribution. The DSCA imposes requires to ensure accountability in distribution and to identify and remove counterfeit and other illegitimate products from the market. 

Abbreviated New Drug Applications for Generic Drugs 

In 1984, with passage of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the FDCA, Congress authorized the FDA to approve generic drugs that are the same as drugs previously approved by the FDA under the NDA provisions of the statute. To obtain approval of a generic drug, an applicant must submit an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, to the agency. In support of such applications, a generic manufacturer may rely on the preclinical and clinical testing previously conducted for a drug product previously approved under an NDA, known as the reference listed drug, or RLD. 

Specifically, in order for an ANDA to be approved, the FDA must find that the generic version is identical to the RLD with respect to the active ingredients, the route of administration, the dosage form, and the strength of the drug. At the same time, the FDA must also determine that the generic drug is &#147;bioequivalent&#148; to the innovator drug. Under the statute, a generic drug is bioequivalent to a RLD if &#147;the rate and extent of absorption of the drug do not show a significant difference from the rate and extent of absorption of the listed drug.&#148; 

Upon approval of an ANDA, the FDA indicates whether the generic product is &#147;therapeutically equivalent&#148; to the RLD in its publication &#147;Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations,&#148; also referred to as the &#147;Orange Book.&#148; Physicians and pharmacists consider a therapeutic equivalent generic drug to be fully substitutable for the RLD. In addition, by operation of certain state laws and numerous health insurance programs, the FDA&#146;s designation of therapeutic equivalence often results in substitution of the generic drug without the knowledge or consent of either the prescribing physician or patient. 

Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, the FDA may not approve an ANDA until any applicable period of non-patent exclusivity for the RLD has expired. The FDCA provides a period of five years of non-patent data exclusivity for a new drug containing a new chemical entity. An NCE is a drug that contains no active moiety that has previously been approved by the FDA in any other NDA. An active moiety is the molecule or ion responsible for the physiological or pharmacological action of the drug substance. In cases where such exclusivity has been granted, an ANDA may not be filed with the FDA until the expiration of five years unless the submission is accompanied by a Paragraph IV certification, in which case the applicant may submit its application four years following the original product approval. The FDCA also provides for a period of three years of exclusivity if the NDA includes reports of one or more new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability or bioequivalence studies, that were conducted by or for the applicant and are essential to the approval of the application. This three-year exclusivity period often protects changes to a previously approved drug product, such as a new dosage form, route of administration, combination or indication. 

&#160;

Hatch-Waxman Patent Certification and the 30-Month Stay 

Upon approval of an NDA or a supplement thereto, NDA sponsors are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims that cover the applicant&#146;s product or an approved method of using the product. Each of the patents listed by the NDA sponsor is published in the Orange Book. When an ANDA applicant files its application to the FDA, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the reference product in the Orange Book, except for patents covering methods of use for which the ANDA applicant is not seeking approval. To the extent that the Section 505(b)(2) applicant is relying on studies conducted for an already approved product, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the Orange Book to the same extent that an ANDA applicant would. 

Specifically, the applicant must certify with respect to each patent that: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the required patent information has not been filed; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has expired; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent is invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product&#146;s listed patents or that such patents are invalid or unenforceable is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents or indicate that it is not seeking approval of a patented method of use, the ANDA application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. 

If the ANDA applicant or 505(b)(2) applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the ANDA has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days after the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA until the earlier of 30 months after the receipt of the Paragraph IV notice, expiration of the patent, or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant. 

Pediatric Studies and Exclusivity 

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, a NDA or supplement thereto must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. With enactment of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, in 2012, sponsors must also submit pediatric study plans prior to the assessment data. Those plans must contain an outline of the proposed pediatric study or studies the applicant plans to conduct, including study objectives and design, any deferral or waiver requests, and other information required by regulation. The applicant, the FDA, and the FDA&#146;s internal review committee must then review the information submitted, consult with each other, and agree upon a final plan. The FDA or the applicant may request an amendment to the plan at any time. Unless otherwise required by regulation, the pediatric data requirements do not apply to products with orphan designation. 

The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of the applicant, grant deferrals for submission of some or all pediatric data until after approval of the product for use in adults, or full or partial waivers from the pediatric data requirements. Additional requirements and procedures relating to deferral requests and requests for extension of deferrals are contained in FDASIA. 

&#160;

Pediatric exclusivity is another type of non-patent marketing exclusivity in the United States and, if granted, provides for the attachment of an additional six months of marketing protection to the term of any existing regulatory exclusivity, including the non-patent exclusivity. This six-month exclusivity may be granted if an NDA sponsor submits pediatric data that fairly respond to a written request from the FDA for such data. The data do not need to show the product to be effective in the pediatric population studied; rather, if the clinical trial is deemed to fairly respond to the FDA&#146;s request, the additional protection is granted. If reports of requested pediatric studies are submitted to and accepted by the FDA within the statutory time limits, whatever statutory or regulatory periods of exclusivity or patent protection cover the product are extended by six months. This is not a patent term extension, but it effectively extends the regulatory period during which the FDA cannot approve another application. 

Patent Term Restoration and Extension 

A patent claiming a new drug product may be eligible for a limited patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Act, which permits a patent restoration of up to five years for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review. The restoration period granted is typically one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of a NDA, plus the time between the submission date of a NDA and the ultimate approval date. Patent term restoration cannot be used to extend the remaining term of a patent past a total of 14 years from the product&#146;s approval date. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug product is eligible for the extension, and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent in question. A patent that covers multiple drugs for which approval is sought can only be extended in connection with one of the approvals. The United States Patent and Trademark Office reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration in consultation with the FDA. 

Review and Approval of Medical Devices in the United States 

Medical devices in the United States are strictly regulated by the FDA. Under the FDCA, a medical device is defined as an instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, contrivance, implant, in vitro reagent, or other similar or related article, including a component part, or accessory which is, among other things: intended for use in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions, or in the cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, in man or other animals; or intended to affect the structure or any function of the body of man or other animals, and which does not achieve its primary intended purposes through chemical action within or on the body of man or other animals and which is not dependent upon being metabolized for the achievement of any of its primary intended purposes. This definition provides a clear distinction between a medical device and other FDA regulated products such as drugs. If the primary intended use of the product is achieved through chemical action or by being metabolized by the body, the product is usually a drug. If not, it is generally a medical device. 

Unless an exemption applies, a new medical device may not be marketed in the United States unless and until it has been cleared through filing of a 510(k) premarket notification, or 510(k), or approved by the FDA pursuant to a PMA application. The information that must be submitted to the FDA in order to obtain clearance or approval to market a new medical device varies depending on how the medical device is classified by the FDA. Medical devices are classified into one of three classes on the basis of the controls deemed by the FDA to be necessary to reasonably ensure their safety and effectiveness. 

Class I devices are low risk devices for which reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness can be provided by adherence to the FDA&#146;s general controls for medical devices, which include applicable portions of the FDA&#146;s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, facility registration and product listing, reporting of adverse medical events and malfunctions and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling, advertising and promotional materials. Many Class I devices are exempt from premarket regulation; however, some Class I devices require premarket clearance by the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process. 

Class II devices are moderate risk devices and are subject to the FDA&#146;s general controls, and any other special controls, such as performance standards, post-market surveillance, and FDA guidelines, deemed necessary by the FDA to provide reasonable assurance of the devices&#146; safety and effectiveness. Premarket review 

&#160;

and clearance by the FDA for Class II devices are accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification procedure, although some Class II devices are exempt from the 510(k) requirements. Premarket notifications are subject to user fees, unless a specific exemption applies. 

Class III devices are deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as those for which reasonable assurance of the device&#146;s safety and effectiveness cannot be assured solely by the general controls and special controls described above and that are life-sustaining or life-supporting. A PMA application must provide valid scientific evidence, typically extensive preclinical and clinical trial data and information about the device and its components regarding, among other things, device design, manufacturing and labeling. PMA applications (and supplemental PMA applications) are subject to significantly higher user fees than are 510(k) premarket notifications. 

510(k) Premarket Notification 

To obtain 510(k) clearance, a manufacturer must submit a premarket notification demonstrating that the proposed device is &#147;substantially equivalent&#148; to a predicate device, which is a previously cleared 510(k) device or a pre-amendment device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976, for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of a PMA application. The FDA&#146;s 510(k) clearance pathway usually takes from three to 12 months from the date the application is submitted and filed with the FDA, but it can take significantly longer and clearance is never assured. The FDA has issued guidance documents meant to expedite review of a 510(k) and facilitate interactions between applicants and the agency. To demonstrate substantial equivalence, a manufacturer must show that the device has the same intended use as a predicate device and the same technological characteristics, or the same intended use and different technological characteristics and does not raise new questions of safety and effectiveness than the predicate device. 

Most 510(k)s do not require clinical data for clearance, but the FDA may request such data. 

The FDA seeks to review and act on a 510(k) within 90 days of submission, but it may take longer if the agency finds that it requires more information to review the 510(k). If the FDA determines that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, the subject device may be marketed. However, if the FDA concludes that a new device is not substantially equivalent to a predicate device, the new device will be classified in Class III and the manufacturer will be required to submit a PMA application to market the product. Devices of a new type that the FDA has not previously classified based on risk are automatically classified into Class III by operation of section 513(f)(1) of the FDCA, regardless of the level of risk they pose. To avoid requiring PMA review of low- to moderate-risk devices classified in Class III by operation of law, Congress enacted section 513(f)(2) of the FDCA. This provision allows the FDA to classify a low- to moderate-risk device not previously classified into Class I or II, a process known as the de novo process. A company may apply directly to the FDA for classification of its device as de novo or may submit a de novo petition within 30 days of receiving a not substantially equivalent determination. 

Modifications to a 510(k)-cleared medical device may require the submission of another 510(k). Modifications to a 510(k)-cleared device frequently require the submission of a traditional 510(k), but modifications meeting certain conditions may be candidates for FDA review under a Special 510(k). If a device modification requires the submission of a 510(k), but the modification does not affect the intended use of the device or alter the fundamental technology of the device, then summary information that results from the design control process associated with the cleared device can serve as the basis for clearing the application. A Special 510(k) allows a manufacturer to declare conformance to design controls without providing new data. When the modification involves a change in material, the nature of the &#147;new&#148; material will determine whether a traditional or Special 510(k) is necessary. 

Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared product that would constitute a major change in its intended use or any change that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device may, in some circumstances, 

&#160;

requires the submission of a PMA application, if the change raises complex or novel scientific issues or the product has a new intended use. A manufacturer may be required to submit extensive pre-clinical and clinical data depending on the nature of the changes. 

The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination regarding the need for a new 510(k) submission in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer&#146;s decision. If the FDA disagrees with the manufacturer&#146;s determination and requires new 510(k) clearances or PMA application approvals for modifications to previously cleared products for which the manufacturer concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, the manufacturer may be required to cease marketing or distribution of the products or to recall the modified product until it obtains clearance or approval, and the manufacturer may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, the FDA is currently evaluating the 510(k) process and may make substantial changes to industry requirements. 

Premarket Approval Application 

The PMA application process for approval to market a medical device is more complex, costly, and time- consuming than the 510(k) clearance procedure. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data, including technical information regarding device design and development, preclinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing and controls information and labeling information that demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. After a PMA application is submitted, the FDA has 45 days to determine whether it is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. If the PMA application is complete, the FDA will file the PMA application. If the FDA accepts the application for filing, the agency will begin an in-depth substantive review of the application. By statute, the FDA has 180 days to review the application although, generally, review of the application often takes between one and three years, and may take significantly longer. If the FDA has questions, it will likely issue a first major deficiency letter within 150 days of filing. It may also refer the PMA application to an FDA advisory panel for additional review, and will conduct a preapproval inspection of the manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with the QSR, either of which could extend the 180-day response target. In addition, the FDA may request additional information or request the performance of additional clinical trials in which case the PMA application approval may be delayed while the trials are conducted and the data acquired are submitted in an amendment to the PMA. Even with additional trials, the FDA may not approve the PMA application. 

If the FDA&#146;s evaluations of both the PMA application and the manufacturing facilities are favorable, the FDA will either issue an approval letter authorizing commercial marketing or an approvable letter that usually contains a number of conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval. If the FDA&#146;s evaluations are not favorable, the FDA will deny approval of the PMA application or issue a not approvable letter. The PMA application process, including the gathering of clinical and nonclinical data and the submission to and review by the FDA, can take several years, and the process can be expensive and uncertain. Moreover, even if the FDA approves a PMA application, the FDA may approve the device with an indication that is narrower or more limited than originally sought. The FDA can impose post-approval conditions that it believes necessary to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device, including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale and distribution. After approval of a PMA application, a new PMA application or PMA application supplement may be required for a modification to the device, its labeling, or its manufacturing process. PMA application supplements often require submission of the same type of information as an initial PMA application, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the approved PMA application and may or may not require as extensive technical or clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel. The time for review of a PMA application supplement may vary depending on the type of change, but it can be lengthy. In addition, in some cases the FDA might require additional clinical data. 

Investigational Device Exemption 

A clinical trial is typically required for a PMA application and, in a small percentage of cases, the FDA may require a clinical study in support of a 510(k) submission. A manufacturer that wishes to conduct a clinical study 

&#160;

involving the device is subject to the FDA&#146;s IDE regulation. The IDE regulation distinguishes between significant and non-significant risk device studies and the procedures for obtaining approval to begin the study differ accordingly. Also, some types of studies are exempt from the IDE regulations. A significant risk device presents a potential for serious risk to the health, safety, or welfare of a subject. Significant risk devices are devices that are substantially important in diagnosing, curing, mitigating, or treating disease or in preventing impairment to human health. Studies of devices that pose a significant risk require both FDA and an IRB approval prior to initiation of a clinical study. Non-significant risk devices are devices that do not pose a significant risk to the human subjects. A non-significant risk device study requires only IRB approval prior to initiation of a clinical study. 

An IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. An IDE application is considered approved 30 days after it has been received by the FDA, unless the FDA otherwise informs the sponsor prior to 30 calendar days from the date of receipt, that the IDE is approved, approved with conditions, or disapproved. The FDA typically grants IDE approval for a specified number of subjects to be enrolled at specified study centers. The clinical trial must be conducted in accordance with applicable regulations, including but not limited to the FDA&#146;s IDE regulations and GCP. The investigators must obtain subject informed consent, rigorously follow the investigational plan and study protocol, control the disposition of investigational devices, and comply with all reporting and record keeping requirements. A clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by the FDA, the IRB or the sponsor at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to the study participants outweigh the benefits of participation in the trial. Approval of an IDE does not bind the FDA to accept the results of the trial as sufficient to prove the product&#146;s safety and efficacy, even if the trial meets its intended success criteria. 

Post-Marketing Restrictions and Enforcement 

After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include but are not limited to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submitting and updating establishment registration and device listings with the FDA; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; compliance with the QSR, which require manufacturers to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation, record maintenance, including maintenance of complaint and related investigation files, and other quality assurance controls during the manufacturing process; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; unannounced routine or for-cause device inspections by the FDA, which may include our suppliers&#146; facilities labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for uncleared or unapproved or &#147;off-label&#148; uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; post-approval restrictions or conditions, including requirements to conduct post-market surveillance studies to establish continued safety data or tracking products through the chain of distribution to the patient level. Under the FDA medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or a similar device of such manufacturer were to recur. The decision to file an MDR involves a judgment by the manufacturer. If the FDA disagrees with the manufacturer&#146;s determination, the FDA can take enforcement action. 

Additionally, the FDA has the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. The authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. 

&#160;

Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. 

The failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions or civil penalties; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; recalls, detentions or seizures of products; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; operating restrictions; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; delays in the introduction of products into the market; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; total or partial suspension of production; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; delay or refusal of the FDA or other regulators to grant 510(k) clearance or PMA application approvals of new products; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; withdrawals of 510(k) clearance or PMA application approvals; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; in the most serious cases, criminal prosecution. To ensure compliance with regulatory requirements, medical device manufacturers are subject to market surveillance and periodic, pre-scheduled and unannounced inspections by the FDA, and these inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of subcontractors. 

Review and Approval of Combination Products in the United States 

Certain products may be comprised of components that would normally be regulated under different types of regulatory authorities, and frequently by different Centers at the FDA. These products are known as combination products. Specifically, under regulations issued by the FDA, a combination product may be: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a product comprised of two or more regulated components that are physically, chemically, or otherwise combined or mixed and produced as a single entity; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; two or more separate products packaged together in a single package or as a unit and comprised of drug and device products; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a drug or device packaged separately that according to its investigational plan or proposed labeling is intended for use only with an approved individually specified drug or device where both are required to achieve the intended use, indication, or effect and where upon approval of the proposed product the labeling of the approved product would need to be changed, e.g., to reflect a change in intended use, dosage form, strength, route of administration, or significant change in dose; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; any investigational drug or device packaged separately that according to its proposed labeling is for use only with another individually specified investigational drug, device, or biological product where both are required to achieve the intended use, indication, or effect. Under the FDCA, the FDA is charged with assigning a center with primary jurisdiction, or a lead center, for review of a combination product. That determination is based on the &#147;primary mode of action&#148; of the combination product. Thus, if the primary mode of action of a device-drug combination product is attributable to the drug product, the FDA Center responsible for premarket review of the drug product would have primary jurisdiction for the combination product. The FDA has also established an Office of Combination Products to address issues surrounding combination products and provide more certainty to the regulatory review process. That office serves as a focal point for combination product issues for agency reviewers and industry. It is also responsible for developing guidance and regulations to clarify the regulation of combination products, and for assignment of the FDA center that has primary jurisdiction for review of combination products where the jurisdiction is unclear or in dispute. 

&#160;

Review and Approval of Drug Products in the European Union 

In order to market any product outside of the United States, a company must also comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries and jurisdictions regarding quality, safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of drug products. Whether or not it obtains FDA approval for a product, the company would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable foreign regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries or jurisdictions. The approval process ultimately varies between countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries and jurisdictions might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country or jurisdiction does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country or jurisdiction may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 

Pursuant to the European Clinical Trials Directive, a system for the approval of clinical trials in the European Union has been implemented through national legislation of the member states. Under this system, an applicant must obtain approval from the competent national authority of a European Union member state in which the clinical trial is to be conducted. Furthermore, the applicant may only start a clinical trial after a competent ethics committee has issued a favorable opinion. Clinical trial application must be accompanied by an investigational medicinal product dossier with supporting information prescribed by the European Clinical Trials Directive and corresponding national laws of the member states and further detailed in applicable guidance documents. 

In April 2014, the EU adopted a new Clinical Trials Regulation, which is set to replace the current Clinical Trials Directive. The new Clinical Trials Regulation will be directly applicable to and binding in all 28 EU Member States without the need for any national implementing legislation, and will become applicable no earlier than 28 May 2016. Under the new coordinated procedure for the approval of clinical trials, the sponsor of a clinical trial will be required to submit a single application for approval of a clinical trial to a reporting EU Member State (RMS) through an EU Portal. The submission procedure will be the same irrespective of whether the clinical trial is to be conducted in a single EU Member State or in more than one EU Member State. The Clinical Trials Regulation also aims to streamline and simplify the rules on safety reporting for clinical trials. 

To obtain marketing approval of a drug under European Union regulatory systems, an applicant must submit a marketing authorization application, or MAA, either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. 

The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization by the European Commission that is valid for all European Union member states. The centralized procedure is compulsory for specific products, including for medicines produced by certain biotechnological processes, products designated as orphan medicinal products, advanced therapy products and products with a new active substance indicated for the treatment of certain diseases. For products with a new active substance indicated for the treatment of other diseases and products that are highly innovative or for which a centralized process is in the interest of patients, the centralized procedure may be optional. 

Under the centralized procedure, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or the CHMP, established at the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, is responsible for conducting the initial assessment of a drug. The CHMP is also responsible for several post-authorization and maintenance activities, such as the assessment of modifications or extensions to an existing marketing authorization. Under the centralized procedure in the European Union, the maximum timeframe for the evaluation of an MAA is 210 days, excluding clock stops, when additional information or written or oral explanation is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions of the CHMP. Accelerated evaluation might be granted by the CHMP in exceptional cases, when a medicinal product is of major interest from the point of view of public health and in particular from the viewpoint of therapeutic innovation. In this circumstance, the EMA ensures that the opinion of the CHMP is given within 150 days. 

&#160;

The decentralized procedure is available to applicants who wish to market a product in various European Union member states where such product has not received marketing approval in any European Union member states before. The decentralized procedure provides for approval by one or more other, or concerned, member states of an assessment of an application performed by one member state designated by the applicant, known as the reference member state. Under this procedure, an applicant submits an application based on identical dossiers and related materials, including a draft summary of product characteristics, and draft labeling and package leaflet, to the reference member state and concerned member states. The reference member state prepares a draft assessment report and drafts of the related materials within 210 days after receipt of a valid application. Within 90 days of receiving the reference member state&#146;s assessment report and related materials, each concerned member state must decide whether to approve the assessment report and related materials. 

If a member state cannot approve the assessment report and related materials on the grounds of potential serious risk to public health, the disputed points are subject to a dispute resolution mechanism and may eventually be referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all member states. 

Review and Approval of Medical Devices in the European Union 

The European Union has adopted numerous directives and standards regulating, among other things, the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling, approval and adverse event reporting for medical devices. In the EU, medical devices must comply with the Essential Requirements in Annex I to the EU Medical Devices Directive (Council Directive 93/42/EEC), or the Essential Requirements. Compliance with these requirements is a prerequisite to be able to affix the CE Mark of Conformity to medical devices, without which they cannot be marketed or sold in the European Economic Area, or EEA, comprised of the European Union member states plus Norway, Iceland, and Liechtenstein. Actual implementation of these directives, however, may vary on a country-by-country basis. 

To demonstrate compliance with the Essential Requirements a manufacturer must undergo a conformity assessment procedure, which varies according to the type of medical device and its classification. Except for low risk medical devices, where the manufacturer can issue a CE Declaration of Conformity based on a self-assessment of the conformity of its products with the Essential Requirements, a conformity assessment procedure requires the intervention of a third-party organization designated by competent authorities of a European Union country to conduct conformity assessments, or a Notified Body. Notified Bodies are independent testing houses, laboratories, or product certifiers typically based within the European Union and authorized by the European member states to perform the required conformity assessment tasks, such as quality system audits and device compliance testing. The Notified Body would typically audit and examine the product&#146;s Technical File and the quality system for the manufacture, design and final inspection of the product before issuing a CE Certificate of Conformity demonstrating compliance with the relevant Essential Requirements. 

Medical device manufacturers must carry out a clinical evaluation of their medical devices to demonstrate conformity with the relevant Essential Requirements. This clinical evaluation is part of the product&#146;s Technical File. A clinical evaluation includes an assessment of whether a medical device&#146;s performance is in accordance with its intended use, and that the known and foreseeable risks linked to the use of the device under normal conditions are minimized and acceptable when weighed against the benefits of its intended purpose. The clinical evaluation conducted by the manufacturer must also address any clinical claims, the adequacy of the device labeling and information (particularly claims, contraindications, precautions and warnings) and the suitability of related Instructions for Use. This assessment must be based on clinical data, which can be obtained from clinical studies conducted on the devices being assessed, scientific literature from similar devices whose equivalence with the assessed device can be demonstrated or both clinical studies and scientific literature. 

With respect to implantable devices or devices classified as Class III in the European Union, the manufacturer must conduct clinical studies to obtain the required clinical data, unless relying on existing clinical data from similar devices can be justified. As part of the conformity assessment process, depending on the type 

&#160;

of devices, the Notified Body will review the manufacturer&#146;s clinical evaluation process, assess the clinical evaluation data of a representative sample of the device&#146;s subcategory or generic group, or assess all the clinical evaluation data, verify the manufacturer&#146;s assessment of that data and assess the validity of the clinical evaluation report and the conclusions drawn by the manufacturer. 

Even after a manufacturer receives a CE Certificate of Conformity enabling the CE mark to be placed on it products and the right to sell the products in the EEA countries, a Notified Body or a competent authority may require post-marketing studies of the products. Failure to comply with such requirements in a timely manner could result in the withdrawal of the CE Certificate of Conformity and the recall or withdrawal of the subject product from the European market. 

A manufacturer must inform the Notified Body that carried out the conformity assessment of the medical devices of any planned substantial changes to the devices which could affect compliance with the Essential Requirements or the devices&#146; intended purpose. The Notified Body will then assess the changes and verify whether they affect the product&#146;s conformity with the Essential Requirements or the conditions for the use of the devices. If the assessment is favorable, the Notified Body will issue a new CE Certificate of Conformity or an addendum to the existing CE Certificate of Conformity attesting compliance with the Essential Requirements. If it is not, the manufacturer may not be able to continue to market and sell the product in the EEA. 

In the European Union, medical devices may be promoted only for the intended purpose for which the devices have been CE marked. Failure to comply with this requirement could lead to the imposition of penalties by the competent authorities of the European Union Member States. The penalties could include warnings, orders to discontinue the promotion of the medical device, seizure of the promotional materials and fines. Promotional materials must also comply with various laws and codes of conduct developed by medical device industry bodies in the European Union governing promotional claims, comparative advertising, advertising of medical devices reimbursed by the national health insurance systems and advertising to the general public. 

Additionally, all manufacturers placing medical devices in the market in the European Union are legally bound to report any serious or potentially serious incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the competent authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. In the European Union, manufacturers must comply with the EU Medical Device Vigilance System. Under this system, incidents must be reported to the relevant authorities of the European Union countries, and manufacturers are required to take Field Safety Corrective Actions, or FSCAs, to reduce a risk of death or serious deterioration in the state of health associated with the use of a medical device that is already placed on the market. An incident is defined as any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in the labeling or the instructions for use which, directly or indirectly, might lead to or might have led to the death of a patient or user or of other persons or to a serious deterioration in their state of health. An FSCA may include the recall, modification, exchange, destruction or retrofitting of the device. FSCAs must be communicated by the manufacturer or its European Authorized Representative to its customers and to the end users of the device through Field Safety Notices. In September 2012, the European Commission adopted a proposal for a regulation which, if adopted, will change the way that most medical devices are regulated in the European Union, and may subject products to additional requirements. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of products approved by the FDA and other government authorities. Sales of products will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of the products will be covered by third-party payors, including government health programs in the United States such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care organizations. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the 

&#160;

approved products for a particular indication. Additionally, the containment of healthcare costs has become a priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit our net revenue and results. 

In order to secure coverage and reimbursement for any product that might be approved for sale, a company may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of the product, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA or other comparable regulatory approvals. A payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Third-party reimbursement may not be sufficient to maintain price levels high enough to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. 

Section 1833(t)(6) of the Social Security Act provides for temporary additional payments or &#147;transitional pass-through payments&#148; for certain drugs and biological agents. As originally enacted by the Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999, this provision required Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, to make additional payments to hospitals for current orphan drugs, as designated under section 526 of the FDCA; current drugs and biological agents and brachytherapy sources used for the treatment of cancer; and current radiopharmaceutical drugs and biological products. Transitional pass-through payments are also provided for certain new drugs, devices and biological agents that were not paid for as a hospital outpatient department service as of December 31, 1996, and whose cost is &#147;not insignificant&#148; in relation to the Outpatient Prospective Payment System payment for the procedures or services associated with the new drug, device, or biological. Under the statute, transitional pass-through payments can be made for at least two years but not more than three years. 

We expect to apply for a transitional pass-through reimbursement code from the CMS for DEXTENZA for the treatment of post-surgical ocular pain, subject to the approval of the NDA we filed with the FDA for this indication. We expect pass-through would remain in effect for up to three years depending on when we apply for and receive this reimbursement code. We expect to submit to the CMS for a standard J code for our other DEXTENZA product candidates, including allergic conjunctivitis, as well as for our OTX-TP product candidate, if our clinical trials are successful and if our NDA filings and NDA supplements are approved by the FDA. 

In the European Union, pricing and reimbursement schemes vary widely from country to country. Some countries provide that drug products may be marketed only after a reimbursement price has been agreed. Some countries may require the completion of additional studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular product candidate to currently available therapies. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of drug products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. European Union member states may approve a specific price for a drug product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the drug product on the market. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for drug products, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert competitive pressure that may reduce pricing within a country. Any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for drug products may not allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements. 

Healthcare Law and Regulation 

Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of drug products that are granted marketing approval. Arrangements with providers, consultants, 

&#160;

third-party payors and customers are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations. Such restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal False Claims Act imposes civil penalties, and provides for civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and its implementing regulations, including the Final Omnibus Rule published in January 2013, also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal transparency requirements under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, known as the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, will require certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to CMS within the Department of Health and Human Services information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and physician ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers. Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry&#146;s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures. State and foreign laws also govern the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Healthcare Reform 

A primary trend in the United States healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. There have been a number of federal and state proposals during the last few years regarding the pricing of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products, limiting coverage and reimbursement for drugs and other medical products, government control and other changes to the healthcare system in the United States. 

By way of example, the United States and state governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. In March 2010, the United States Congress enacted the Patient 

&#160;

Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, which, among other things, includes changes to the coverage and payment for products under government health care programs. Among the provisions of PPACA of importance to potential drug candidates are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, although this fee would not apply to sales of certain products approved exclusively for orphan indications; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer&#146;s Medicaid rebate liability; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expanded manufacturers&#146; rebate liability under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program by increasing the minimum rebate for both branded and generic drugs and revising the definition of &#147;average manufacturer price,&#148; or AMP, for calculating and reporting Medicaid drug rebates on outpatient prescription drug prices and extending rebate liability to prescriptions for individuals enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expanded the types of entities eligible for the 340B drug discount program; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; established the Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program by requiring manufacturers to provide a 50% point-of-sale-discount off the negotiated price of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period as a condition for the manufacturers&#146; outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, which has authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program to reduce expenditures by the program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs. However, the IPAB implementation has been not been clearly defined. PPACA provided that under certain circumstances, IPAB recommendations will become law unless Congress enacts legislation that will achieve the same or greater Medicare cost savings; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending. Funding has been allocated to support the mission of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation from 2011 to 2019. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since PPACA was enacted. For example, in August 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2012 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation&#146;s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and will remain in effect through 2024 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. 

&#160;

Employees 

As of March 1, 2016, we had 94 full-time employees. Of these full-time employees, 75 employees are primarily engaged in research and development activities. In 2015, 2014, and 2013, we spent $26.6 million, $18.9 million, and $10.5 million, respectively, on company-sponsored research and development activities. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Our Corporate Information 

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 2006. Our principal executive offices are located at 34 Crosby Drive, Suite 105, Bedford, MA 01730, and our telephone number is (781)357-4000. Our manufacturing and research and development operations are located at 36 Crosby Drive, Suite 101, Bedford, MA 01730. Our website address is www.ocutx.com. 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We make these reports available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC. You can find, copy and inspect information we file at the SEC&#146;s public reference room, which is located at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for more information about the operation of the SEC&#146;s public reference room. You can review our electronically filed reports and other information that we file with the SEC on the SEC&#146;s web site at http://www.sec.gov. We also make available, free of charge on our website, the reports filed with the SEC by our executive officers, directors and 10% stockholders pursuant to Section 16 under the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after copies of those filings are provided to us by those persons. The information contained on, or that can be access through, our website is not a part of or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#160;

