 Item 1. Description of Business. Overview 

We are a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company that is seeking to discover, develop and commercialize innovative therapeutics for patients with certain cancers. Our preliminary focus is on the development of therapies for skin, lung and prostate cancers in the United States of America market, with the first indication targeting basal cell carcinoma in patients with Basal Cell Carcinoma Nevus Syndrome (also known as Gorlin Syndrome). 

Our proposed therapy is based upon SUBA&#153;-Itraconazole, a patented, oral formulation of the currently marketed anti-fungal drug itraconazole to which we hold an exclusive U.S. license as described below. We believe that the dosing of oral capsules of this formulation can affect the Hedgehog signaling pathway, a major regulator of many fundamental cellular processes, which, in turn, can impact the development and growth of cancers such as basal cell carcinoma. Itraconazole has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#147;FDA&#148;) for, and has been extensively used to treat, fungal infections and has an extensive history of safe and effective use in humans. 

&#147;SUBA TM technology&#148; (which stands for &#147;super bioavailability&#148;) is designed to improve the bioavailability of orally administered drugs that are poorly soluble. In studies conducted by Mayne Pharma Ventures Pty Ltd. and its affiliates (&#147;Mayne Pharma&#148;) relating to the anti-fungal use of SUBA-Itraconazole, SUBA-Itraconazole demonstrated improved absorption and significantly reduced variability within and between patients compared to the branded and generic forms of itraconazole in human studies. We believe this technology is well-suited for the exploration of the potential anti-cancer effects of itraconazole. 

The predicted benefits of the SUBA-Itraconazole formulation are as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; polymer drug dispersion technology has been demonstrated to deliver itraconazole with 95% bioavailability; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Itraconazole is released in the lower intestine to improve drug delivery and bioavailability; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; SUBA-Itraconazole levels have been demonstrated to be more consistent within a patient and between patients compared to generic or branded itraconazole; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the SUBA drug delivery technology has been demonstrated to allow for higher doses of active ingredient with less toxicity compared to generic formulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; It can be taken with our without food or acidic beverages; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; No restrictions regarding achlorhydric patients (low acid stomach) or patients with acid reflux (requiring proton-pump inhibitors). The foregoing characteristics lead us to believe that SUBA-Itraconazole could be well-suited for chronic use in treating cancer due to its more predictable therapeutic levels and lower toxicity. 

In contrast, we believe that the use of the non-SUBA formulation of itraconazole to treat cancer would be more challenging due to the following characteristics of branded and generic formulations: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Poor drug delivery resulting in bioavailability of only 55%, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Inconsistent blood plasma levels in individual patients and between patients, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The need to eat a meal and take acidic beverages with drug dosing to control pH, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; No achlorhydric (low acid stomach) patients, and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; No patients who require proton-pump inhibitor drugs to control acid reflux. &#160;

Following a meeting between our management and representatives of the FDA in August 2014, we submitted an Investigational New Drug (&#147;IND&#148;) application in November 2014 for the use of our product candidate to treat basal cell carcinoma in patients with Gorlin Syndrome, a genetic disease also known as Basal Cell Carcinoma Nevus Syndrome, which, among other conditions, causes the chronic formation of basal cell tumors. Our IND application was cleared by the FDA in December 2014, and we commenced patient recruiting during the third quarter of 2015 for our Phase II(b) clinical trial. We then began studying the safety and efficacy of the SUBA-Itraconazole formulation during the fourth quarter 2015 to determine how well it reduces basal cell carcinoma tumor burden in patents with Gorlin Syndrome. We expect to report preliminary results during the second half of 2016 in patients who continue treatment under our open-label protocol. During the second half of 2016, we also intend to file individualized clinical trial protocols to expand the study of SUBA-Itraconazole for additional target cancer indications. 

Our regulatory strategy is driven by the so called 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, under which a drug (in our case, itraconazole) that has already been approved for use in humans in the United States by the FDA is developed for one or more new medical indications (in our case, as an anti-cancer agent). Due to the history of safe and efficacious use of itraconazole in humans for anti-fungal applications, we believe the 505(b)(2) pathway will be available to us, which may create the potential for significantly reducing the risk and time to achieve FDA approval of our cancer therapy. 

Intellectual Property 

We strive to protect the intellectual property that we believe will be important to our business, including seeking our own patent protection (or seeking licenses to patents) intended to cover the composition of matter of our product candidate, its methods of use, related technology and other inventions that are important to our business. 

We have developed, licensed and are seeking to acquire and/or license, intellectual property and know-how related to the treatment of cancer patients using itraconazole. We have exclusive rights in the U.S. to develop and to commercialize SUBA-Itraconazole Capsules for the treatment of human cancer via oral administration. SUBA-Itraconazole was developed and is licensed to us by our manufacturing partner and significant shareholder Mayne Pharma under a Supply and License Agreement, originally dated September 3, 2013, amended and restated on June 24, 2014 and most recently amended and restated on May 15, 2015 (the &#147;Supply and License Agreement&#148;). Mayne Pharma is an Australian specialty pharmaceutical company that develops and manufactures branded and generic products, which it distributes directly or through distribution partners and also provides contract development and manufacturing services. In addition to being our licensor and supply partner, under the Supply and License Agreement and related agreements, Mayne Pharma holds a significant minority equity stake in our company and holds important rights with respect to our company, such as the right to appoint a member to our Board of Directors. 

In addition, on September 2, 2015, we entered into a sublicense agreement with Mayne Pharma, pursuant to which Mayne Pharma sublicensed to us the exclusive U.S. rights to two patents regarding the use of itraconazole for treatment of cancer, namely US patent No 8,980,930 entitled &#147;Angiogenesis Inhibitors&#148;, issued on March 17, 2015, and US patent No 8,653,083 entitled &#147;Hedgehog Pathway Antagonists to Treat Disease&#148;, issued on February 28, 2014. Mayne Pharma is the sublicensee of the patents from Accelas Holdings, a British Virgin Islands company, who in turn is the licensee from The Johns Hopkins University, the owner of the patents. The patents relate to the use of itraconazole as a treatment for cancer and age-related macular degeneration. We paid a license fee of $75,000 to Mayne Pharma upon entering into the sublicense agreement, which is included in research and development expenses in the accompanying 2015 statement of operations. 

The following is a summary of intellectual property in the form of issued U.S. Patents we own, or for which we have exclusive licenses, regarding the use of itraconazole, and more specifically SUBA-Itraconazole, as an anti-cancer therapy. 

Johns Hopkins University Patents Sublicensed to Mayne Pharma/HedgePath: we have worked in concert with Mayne Pharma to sublicense rights to the following two Johns Hopkins University (JHU) patents for the use of itraconazole as a treatment for cancer as a Hedgehog Pathway Inhibitor and as an Angiogenesis Inhibitor: 

Johns Hopkins University US Patent 8,653,083 

Hedgehog Pathway Antagonists to Treat Disease 

Issued: 02-18-2014 

Johns Hopkins University US Patent 8,980,930 

Angiogenesis Inhibitors 

Issued: 03-17-2015 

Mayne Pharma Intellectual Property Licensed to HedgePath: Three issued patents have been licensed to us by Mayne Pharma concerning the manufacturing and composition of matter for SUBA-Itraconazole, for which we are implementing clinical and 

&#160;

regulatory programs to enable the repurposing of itraconazole to treat cancer. This strategy is intended to significantly reduce the risk and time to potential FDA approvals for marketing in the United States as evidenced via the clearance by FDA for us to proceed directly into a Phase II(b) human trials which have been underway since August 2015. The patents that are licensed to us by Mayne Pharma are as follows: 

Mayne Pharma US Patent 6,881,745 

Pharmaceutical Compositions for Poorly Soluble Drugs 

Issued: 04-19-2005 

Mayne Pharma US Patent 8,771,739 

Pharmaceutical Compositions for Poorly Soluble Drugs 

Issued: 07-08-2014 

Mayne Pharma US Patent 8,921,374 

Itraconazole Compositions and Dosage Forms and Methods Using Same 

Issued: 12-30-2014 

HedgePath Intellectual Property: We recently received notice that over 30 claims have been allowed by the US Patent and Trademark Office to cover our own inventions, and a patent was issued on November 24, 2015 (US Patent 9,129,609, Treatment and Prognostic Monitoring of Proliferation Disorders Using Hedgehog Pathway Inhibitors ). Initial target applications include itraconazole therapies for skin, lung and prostate cancers. 

We plan to continue to expand our intellectual property estate by filing patent applications directed to dosage forms, methods of treatment, therapies for other cancers and additional Hedgehog inhibitor compounds and their derivatives. We will also rely on trade secrets and careful monitoring of our proprietary information to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. 

The Hedgehog Pathway 

Based on the results of existing physician-sponsored studies conducted by others (including in vitro, animal and human studies), we believe that itraconazole affects the Hedgehog signaling pathway in cells, which could in turn impact the development and growth of certain cancers. The studies, conducted at prominent medical institutions, primarily in the United States, were published in the Journal of Thoracic Oncology, The Oncologist and the Journal of Clinical Oncology between May 2013 and February 2014. Based on these studies, it appears that itraconazole may have notable anti-cancer effects by one or more independent or synergistic mechanisms, some of which are not clearly understood and continue to be the subject of on-going research. These studies formed the basis of our interest in the clinical development of itraconazole for treatment of human cancers. 

The Hedgehog signaling pathway is a major regulator of many fundamental cellular processes in vertebrates, including primarily at the embryonic stage of development but also as it relates to stem cell maintenance, cell differentiation, tissue polarity and cell proliferation. Based on published research, we believe that inhibiting the Hedgehog pathway could delay or possibly prevent the development of certain cancers in patients. Research has shown that activation of the Hedgehog pathway can lead to the formation of cancerous tumors (a process known as tumorigenesis) such as the most common form of skin cancer known as basal cell carcinoma. A variety of other human cancers, including brain, gastrointestinal, lung, breast and prostate cancers, also demonstrate inappropriate activation of this pathway. Hedgehog signaling from the tumor to the surrounding cell structures has been shown to sometimes promote further tumorigenesis as well. This pathway has also been shown to regulate proliferation of cancer stem cells and to increase tumor invasiveness. 

We believe that the targeted inhibition of Hedgehog signaling may be effective in the treatment and prevention of many types of human cancers. We also believe that the discovery and synthesis of specific Hedgehog pathway inhibitors may have significant clinical implications regarding the development of novel cancer therapies. Several synthetic Hedgehog antagonists are now being studied, some of which are undergoing clinical evaluation. The orally available compound, GDC-0449 (vismodegib, developed by Genentech, Inc., a subsidiary of Roche), is the first Hedgehog inhibitor based-therapy and sonidegib (developed by Novartis) is the second orally available compound, that has been approved for treatment of advanced stages of basal cell carcinoma by the FDA. 

Repurposing Itraconazole for Treating Cancer 

We are implementing clinical and regulatory plans to enable the repurposing of itraconazole, via the use of the new formulation of SUBA-Itraconazole oral capsules, for the treatment of a variety of cancers. This strategy is intended to significantly reduce the risk and time to potential FDA approvals for marketing in the United States. Initial target applications include therapies for skin, lung and prostate cancers, among others. 

&#160;

Itraconazole appears to have notable anti-cancer effects by one or more independent or synergistic mechanisms, some of which are not clearly understood and continue to be the subject of ongoing research. These anti-cancer effects have been demonstrated in various animal models and, subsequently in human studies over the last few years, all of which are the basis of our interest in the clinical development of SUBA-Itraconazole for treatment of human cancers. 

We believe that our development of SUBA-Itraconazole as an anti-cancer therapy may lead to its use as an inhibitor of the Hedgehog pathway, thereby retarding the progression of cancer. 

In animal models, itraconazole has demonstrated an anti-angiogenic effect (i.e., inhibiting the formation of new blood vessels), which may be important in controlling the proliferation of cancerous cells and tumors in humans based upon its interaction with certain cell-based growth factors. Itraconazole also appears to induce changes related to the mTOR pathway, an important regulator of cell growth, proliferation and survival which, when unregulated, can also lead to cancer. 

We believe that the use of SUBA-Itraconazole to treat each of our target cancer patient populations has the potential to benefit from various FDA programs designed to expedite the approval process. 

Basal Cell Carcinoma 

SUBA-Itraconazole may offer a significant alternative therapy to Genentech&#146;s drug, vismodegib, for treatment of basal cell carcinoma (known as BCC). Vismodegib is the first FDA-approved Hedgehog inhibitor based-therapy, yet has many reported toxicities and is associated with serious side effects that result in suspension of chronic dosing. As a result, basal cell tumors reoccur and patients are faced with the choice of returning to vismodegib therapy or, if possible, surgical alternatives. The SUBA-Itraconazole formulation of itraconazole may prove to be a more acceptable therapy for a larger number of patients or considered as a therapy which could easily be alternated with vismodegib, especially for patients who cannot endure vismodegib side-effects for extended periods of treatment. Additionally, recent reports indicate that vismodegib has led to resistance in some BCC patients, so use of SUBA-Itraconazole as an alternative therapy in this sub-population of patients could prove to be very useful for long term oral drug therapy. SUBA-Itraconazole treatment of patients with Gorlin Syndrome (a genetic disease which causes chronic BCC tumors) may qualify for orphan drug status, an FDA designation that expedites review of drugs for the treatment of diseases that have relatively small patient populations. 

Gorlin Syndrome is our first indication being studied in a Phase II(b) trial which was launched in August of 2015 and where we began recruiting and dosing patients during the fourth quarter of 2015. Patients being enrolled in this trial must have been diagnosed with Gorlin Syndrome and have numerous BCC tumors as well as meet a well-defined list of inclusion criteria in order to qualify for enrollment. 

Gorlin Syndrome is caused by a mutation in a gene called PTCH1. This mutation causes PTCH to lose its ability to inhibit SMO (a protein receptor of the Hedgehog pathway) which controls Hedgehog Pathway signaling. With SMO not being inhibited, BCCNS patients develop multiple BCC tumors over weeks, months and years on a continued basis. SUBA-Itraconazole is therefore being tested to study its ability to bind to SMO (itraconazole has demonstrated SMO binding in animal and human studies), thus inhibiting Hedgehog pathway activity which leads to the formation of the BCC tumors in these patients. The key objective of our ongoing Phase II(b) trial is to demonstrate patient benefit by reducing tumor burden that requires on-going intervention for tumor growth via surgery and/or use of more toxic Hedgehog inhibitor therapies. 

Lung Cancer 

Patients with advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (most often caused by cigarette smoking) have few options when considering therapies to extend survival. With a median survival of only 8-10 months while on approved chemotherapy regimens, we believe that new therapies are needed. We believe that the pre-clinical data and recently reported human data on the use of itraconazole in conjunction with chemotherapy reflects positively on the use of itraconazole as an anti-cancer therapy for this form of lung cancer. If these data prove to be applicable to human treatment by improving survival, while dosing SUBA-Itraconazole in combination with first-line chemotherapy therapy (the combination of chemotherapy drugs Pemetrexed and Cisplatin), the treatment may qualify for one or more FDA accelerated programs, such as a breakthrough therapy or fast track status. 

Prostate Cancer 

Itraconazole has already been tested as a treatment for men with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer in a multi-institutional Phase II trial led by Johns Hopkins University and completed in 2011 and published in 2013, which showed that, at a specified dose, there was a significant correlation to slowing the progression of cancer and extending survival. Based on those encouraging results in metastatic disease, we are planning to test SUBA-Itraconazole in high-risk men with non-metastatic prostate cancer (who are castrate resistant, either based upon drug therapy or surgery) to study the effect of itraconazole therapy in delaying metastases. There is no currently approved drug therapy for these patients and yet they are treated with drugs designed for metastatic 

&#160;

disease on an &#147;off-label&#148; basis. We believe this is a significant opportunity for us since we are offering a non-toxic, non-androgen dependent small molecule therapy to a very large population of patients. Therapy with SUBA-Itraconazole may offer great promise for delaying the use of, and associated side-effects due to, those Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) Drugs which are formulated to lower testosterone levels but are intended for metastatic disease treatment. 

Our Potential Market 

The following table depicts our current estimate of the total available market opportunity for our proposed anti-cancer therapies based upon independent market research, scientific and industry publications and management&#146;s knowledge of the U.S. oncology market. Our estimates (including estimated product pricing) are based on current assumptions and are subject to change. 

HedgePath Pharmaceuticals, Inc. &#150; Summary U.S. Market Opportunity 

&#160;

Cancer 

&#160; Therapy Indication 

&#160; Potential for SUBA-Itraconazole 

&#160; Target Patient Population 

&#160; U.S. Total Available Market* 

Skin (1) &#160; Patients with BCC (basal cell carcinoma) lesions

First indication: BCC tumors in Gorlin Syndrome Patients requiring surgery

Follow-on Indication: Patients with BCC facial lesions pending MOHs or other surgical procedures

&#160; Less toxic therapy than vismodegib for Gorlin

Patients to delay surgeries; low toxicity therapy to delay or minimize surgical intervention for facial BCC tumors

&#160; 10,000 Gorlin patients needing chronic BCC therapy; 65,000 BCC patients pending surgical treatment for facial tumors that require excision and potential plastic surgery &#160; $300M for Gorlin patients and $600M for patients with BCC facial lesions requiring surgery based upon HedgePath estimates of ~ $4K-$5K monthly cost of therapy for target populations Lung (2) &#160; Patients with advanced non-squamous cell, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who will be placed on Cisplatin/Pemetrexed IV Therapy &#160; Improve the current median 8-10 month survival achieved with best supportive care &#160; 56,000 men and women with late-stage disease on chemotherapy treatment &#160; $1.7 B based on HedgePath estimates of ~ $4K-$5K monthly cost of therapy Prostate (3) &#160; Patients with non metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (NMCRPC) and rising PSA levels on &#147;off-label&#148; androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) &#160; Delay the progression to metastatic disease while preventing or reducing the use of ADT and its associated side-effects &#160; 45,000 high-risk men with prostate cancer which may lead to metastases of the bone &#160; $1.5B based on HedgePath estimates of ~ $4K-$5K monthly cost of therapy &#160;

* HedgePath therapies based on 50% of patient populations References: 

&#160;

(1) J Am Academy Dermatology, 2006; Skin Cancer Foundation, 2009; International Medicine News, 2011; Seeking Alpha, 2012; BCCNS Life Support Network 2014, Genetics Home Reference 2015 (2) STATS MGU, 2009; Global Industry Analysts, 2010; BMC Health Services, 2011; World Health Organization, 2011; Cost of Treating Lung Cancer, 2012; National Center for Biotechnology Information, 2012 (3) J. Urology, 2003; Oncology, 2004; J. Clinical Oncology, 2011; Medscape, 2012; Landes Bioscience, 2012 Our Strategy 

Our goal is to be a leader in the development and commercialization of SUBA-Itraconazole-based therapeutics for the treatment of cancer patients. We believe that we can accomplish this goal by implementing the following key elements of our business strategy: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Rapidly Advance the Clinical Development of Our Therapies. With the history of safe use of itraconazole in humans for anti-fungal indications, we bypassed each of the required pre-clinical animal studies for toxicity and Phase I human trials to establish safety, and therefore are able to move directly into Phase II human trials. We filed an IND to test SUBA-Itraconazole for the treatment of basal cell carcinoma in patients with Gorlin Syndrome, and the IND 

&#160;

&#160; was cleared by FDA for human testing as of late December 2014. As a result, we began recruiting patients for a Phase II(b) trial during the third quarter of 2015 and dosing patients in fourth quarter of 2015. Thereafter we intend to file individualized clinical protocols to expand the study of SUBA-Itraconazole for additional target cancer indications. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Seek FDA Programs to Expedite Drug Approvals. The FDA has various programs intended to facilitate and expedite development and review of new drugs to address unmet medical needs in the treatment of serious or life-threatening conditions. These expedited programs help ensure that therapies for serious conditions are available as soon as it can be concluded that the therapies&#146; benefits justify their risks, taking into account the seriousness of the condition and the availability of alternative treatments. These programs include breakthrough therapy designation, fast track designation, accelerated approval, and priority review. We believe that SUBA-Itraconazole for the treatment of cancer may qualify for one of these designations, which could help expedite the regulatory review process. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Commercialize and Market with Exclusivity. We have opened sites and commenced the clinical testing of SUBA-Itraconazole for treatment of basal cell carcinoma in an initial Phase II(b) trial for patients with Gorlin Syndrome, in order to later seek FDA approval based upon its efficacy for this new indication. In addition, we are developing specific clinical trial designs to address different forms of cancer in order to pursue New Drug Application (&#147;NDA&#148;) approvals for multiple indications. Further, we believe SUBA-Itraconazole can be commercialized in a way that maximizes benefits for cancer patients, based on our specific therapy regimens, while eliminating generic substitution and providing us with market exclusivity protections through our intellectual property rights. We intend to finance our research and development, commercialization and distribution efforts and our working capital needs primarily through: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; proceeds from public and private financings and, potentially, from strategic transactions; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; proceeds from the exercise of warrants issued in public and private financings; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; partnering with other pharmaceutical companies to assist in the supply, manufacturing and distribution of our products for which we would expect to receive upfront milestone and royalty payments; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; licensing and joint venture arrangements with third parties, including other pharmaceutical companies where we would receive funding based on out-licensing our product to augment their product profile in the treatment of cancers; and/or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; seeking government or private foundation grants or loans which would be awarded to us to further develop our current and future anti-cancer therapies. Background on Cancer 

Cancer is a heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by uncontrolled cell division and growth. Cancerous cells that arise in the lymphatic system and bone marrow are referred to as hematological tumors. Cancer cells that arise in other tissues or organs are referred to as solid tumors. Researchers believe that exposure to some chemicals, viruses and various forms of radiation can cause genetic alterations that cause cancer. Genetic predispositions also can increase the risk of cancer in some people. 

Cancer is the second leading cause of death in the United States, exceeded only by heart disease. The American Cancer Society estimates that in 2013 there were approximately 1.6 million new cases of cancer and approximately 580,000 deaths from cancer in the United States. 

The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and drug therapy. A cancer patient often receives treatment with a combination of these methods. Surgery and radiation therapy are particularly effective in patients in whom the disease is localized (not spread beyond the initial site of disease). Physicians generally use systemic drug therapies in situations in which the cancer has spread beyond the primary site or cannot otherwise be treated through surgery. The goal of drug therapy is to damage and kill cancer cells or to interfere with the molecular and cellular processes that control the development, growth and survival of cancer cells or tumors. In many cases, drug therapy entails the administration of several different drugs in combination. Over the past several decades, drug therapy has evolved from non-specific drugs that damage both healthy and cancerous cells, to drugs that target specific molecular pathways involved in cancer and more recently to therapeutics that target the specific oncogenic &#147;drivers&#148; of cancer. 

&#160;

Cytotoxic Chemotherapies. The earliest approach to pharmacological cancer treatment was to develop drugs, referred to as cytotoxic drugs, which kill rapidly proliferating cancer cells through non-specific mechanisms, such as disrupting cell metabolism or causing damage to cellular components required for survival and rapid growth. While these kinds of drugs have been effective in the treatment of some cancers, many unmet medical needs for the treatment of cancer remain. Also, cytotoxic drug therapies act in an indiscriminate manner, acting upon the metabolism of healthy as well as cancerous cells. Due to their mechanism of action, many cytotoxic drugs have a narrow dose range above which the toxicity causes unacceptable or even fatal levels of damage and below which the drugs are not effective in eradicating cancer cells. 

Targeted Therapies. The next approach to pharmacological cancer treatment was to develop drugs, referred to as targeted therapeutics, that target specific biological molecules in the human body that play a role in rapid cell growth and the spread of cancer. Targeted therapeutics include vascular disruptors, also referred to as angiogenesis inhibitors, which prevent the formation of new blood vessels and restrict a tumor&#146;s blood supply. Other targeted therapies affect cellular signaling pathways that are critical for the growth of cancer. While these drugs have been effective in the treatment of some cancers, most do not address the underlying cause of the disease. These drugs focus on inhibiting processes that help the cancer cell survive, but not the oncogenes that are the drivers or cause of the cancer itself. 

Oncogenic Therapies. A more recent approach to pharmacological cancer treatment is to develop drugs that affect the drivers that cause uncontrolled growth of cancer cells because of a specific genetic alteration. In some cases, these agents were identified as therapeutics without knowledge of the underlying genetic change causing the disease. To date, the shortcoming of this research approach has been that it often follows a conventional trial and error approach to drug discovery. In this approach, clinical development involves the treatment of large populations from which a defined subpopulation that responds to treatment is identified. As a result, this approach can be time-consuming and costly, with success often uncertain. Another major concern of these newly discovered drugs, some of which have been recently approved, is that resistance to them occurs as the cancer finds new ways to circumvent the genetic pathway. 

The Itraconazole Approach to Treating Cancer 

We are focusing our developments on Hedgehog pathway inhibitor therapeutics for patients with certain cancers, including skin, lung and prostate cancers. Our initial product candidate is a new formulation of itraconazole, which is based upon new drug delivery technology that enhances its bioavailability. Previous formulations of itraconazole have exhibited anti-cancer properties in human trials and therefore, based on pre-clinical research regarding specific indicators of Hedgehog pathway inhibition, we believe have compelling evidence of being potential Hedgehog inhibitors for treatment of cancer in humans. We have obtained exclusive U.S. rights to use and develop SUBA-Itraconazole, a patented, more bioavailable formulation of the currently marketed drug itraconazole, which we have licensed from Mayne Pharma through an exclusive Supply and License Agreement. 

Background of Itraconazole. Itraconazole is FDA approved for and used to treat serious fungal or yeast infections. This medicine works by killing the fungus or yeast and preventing its growth. Itraconazole is a prescription based medication, available as an IV solution, oral liquid, capsule or tablet. 

Cancer and Hedgehog Inhibitors. The Hedgehog (also known as Hh) proteins comprise a group of secreted proteins that regulate cell growth, differentiation and survival. They are involved in organogenesis (the formation of organs), and have been shown to promote adult stem cell proliferation. Inappropriate activation of the Hh signaling pathway has been implicated in the development of several types of cancers including prostate, lung, pancreas, breast, brain and skin. Hedgehog pathway inhibitors are a relatively new class of therapeutic agents that act by targeting the proteins involved in the regulation of the Hh pathway. Many of these newly discovered inhibitors are currently undergoing preclinical testing and some have entered clinical studies as anti-cancer agents for a variety of cancers. Vismodegib was approved for treatment of locally advanced and metastatic basal cell carcinoma in early 2012 and sonidegib was approved for the same indication in mid-2015. 

Similarly, itraconazole has also been shown to suppress growth of brain tumors in animal models. It has also been shown to have anti-cancer effects in basal cell carcinoma, lung cancer and prostate cancer in human clinical trials. Itraconazole acts as a SMO (a protein receptor of the Hh pathway) antagonist (blocker), in a manner distinct from its anti-fungal activity which targets a compound found in fungi and yeast known as ergosterol (a steroid found in the cell walls of fungi and yeast that functions in a fashion similar to cholesterol in humans) as well as having anti-angiogenic properties. 

Manufacturing and Product Supply and Relationship with Mayne Pharma 

We are in the early stages of development and thus we do not have any production facilities or manufacturing personnel. We currently have a Supply and License Agreement in place with Mayne Pharma for the patented formulation of itraconazole, SUBA-Itraconazole. The agreement provides for the supply to HPPI of specially formulated capsules of SUBA-Itraconazole, manufactured by Mayne Pharma under cGMP (current good manufacturing practice) standards, for use by HPPI in its anticipated clinical trials, including the trial for basal cell carcinoma in patients with Gorlin Syndrome which was cleared by the FDA in December 2014 and began dosing patients during 2015, and for the future exclusive commercial supply following FDA approvals, if obtained. 

&#160;

Pursuant to the Supply and License Agreement, Mayne Pharma is obligated to: (i) supply us with its patented formulation of SUBA-Itraconazole in a particular dose formulation for the treatment of human patients with cancer via oral administration (with the initial areas of investigation being prostate, lung and skin cancer) in the United States, (ii) provide us with an exclusive license to perform specified development activities and to commercialize SUBA-Itraconazole for the treatment of cancer via oral administration in the United States and (iii) participate in a joint development committee (&#147;JDC&#148;) with us to clinically develop SUBA-Itraconazole for the treatment of cancer in the United States. Mayne Pharma will also provide certain services to us (in accordance with the development plan and budget for our product) including to direct clinical programming (subject to the oversight and approval by the JDC and, in certain circumstances, the Board of Directors), and to direct the regulatory approval process and intellectual property strategy related to the product. Any services provided to us by Mayne Pharma in this regard will be provided at Mayne Pharma&#146;s expense (other than third party costs agreed to by us and Mayne Pharma), and such services will be subject to our prior approval. The Supply and License Agreement may be terminated by Mayne Pharma if we fail to achieve regulatory approval to commercialize SUBA-Itraconazole in the U.S. by June 30, 2017, if we breach any provision of our Second Amended and Restated Equity Holders Agreement (the &#147;Equity Holders Agreement&#148;), if we materially breach the Supply and License Agreement and do not cure such breach within a specified time period, or if either party files for bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. 

Also pursuant to the Supply and License Agreement, we will develop and exploit SUBA-Itraconazole through a development plan which will be authorized by the JDC and updated as necessary. We cannot make changes to the development plan without Mayne Pharma&#146;s consent. The license granted to us under the Supply and License Agreement may only be assigned or sub-licensed with the prior approval of Mayne Pharma. In addition, in support of the exclusive nature of the Supply and License Agreement, during the term, Mayne Pharma is prohibited from directly or indirectly importing, promoting, marketing, distributing or selling SUBA-Itraconazole for the treatment of cancer in the United States. If any other form of the SUBA-Itraconazole manufactured by Mayne Pharma is sold as a result of any non-promoted use, we shall be entitled to a royalty on such non-promoted sales. Further, during the term of and for a period following the term of the Supply and License Agreement, we may not develop products that are competitive with SUBA-Itraconazole for the treatment of cancer. Under the Supply and License Agreement, we are responsible for obtaining all of our requirements for SUBA-Itraconazole from Mayne Pharma, including for use in clinical trials, importation, promotion, marketing, sale and distribution in the United States. We and Mayne Pharma have established certain minimum floor prices that we must pay per unit of SUBA-Itraconazole and minimum order quantities for SUBA-Itraconazole. In addition, the agreement provides for certain annual minimum order quantities for SUBA-Itraconazole, and, if such quantities are not met, we must pay the shortfall or Mayne Pharma may terminate the agreement. 

On June 24, 2014, we and Mayne Pharma, along with Nicholas J. Virca, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Frank E. O&#146;Donnell, Jr., M.D., our Executive Chairman, and Hedgepath, LLC, a Florida limited liability company and the then majority stockholder of our company which is controlled by Black Robe Capital LLC, of which Dr. O&#146;Donnell is the manager, consummated a series of related transactions to fulfill certain conditions of the Supply and License Agreement. In connection therewith, we and Mayne Pharma entered into an Amended and Restated Supply and License Agreement. In addition, on the June 24, 2014, in fulfillment of one of the conditions under the Supply and License Agreement, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Mayne Pharma (the &#147;Mayne Purchase Agreement&#148;). Pursuant to the terms of the Mayne Purchase Agreement, we issued to Mayne Pharma (i) 258,363.280 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, and (ii) a warrant to purchase 10,250,569 shares of our common stock. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted into 87,843,897 shares of common stock on August 14, 2014. Such warrant has an exercise price of $0.0878 per share and may be exercised at any time, from time to time, by Mayne Pharma prior to the expiration on June 24, 2019. 

On May 15, 2015, we and Mayne Pharma, along with Mr. Virca and Dr. O&#146;Donnell consummated a series of related transactions to fulfill certain conditions of the Supply and License Agreement. In connection therewith, we and Mayne Pharma entered into a Second Amended and Restated Supply and License Agreement. In addition, on May 15, 2015, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Mayne Pharma (the &#147;2015 Mayne Purchase Agreement&#148;). Pursuant to the terms of the 2015 Mayne Purchase Agreement, we issued to Mayne Pharma (i) 33,333,333 shares of our common stock and (ii) a warrant to purchase 33,333,333 shares of our common stock. Such warrant has an exercise price of $0.075 per share and may be exercised at any time, from time to time, by Mayne Pharma prior to the expiration on May 15, 2020. As a result of the 2015 Mayne Purchase Agreement, Mayne Pharma owned approximately 51.1% of our equity securities on a fully diluted basis immediately following consummation of the offering. See &#147;Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions&#148; for further information. 

Sales and Marketing 

We are in the early stages of development and thus have not yet established a sales, marketing or product distribution infrastructure because our product candidate is still in clinical development. We may either license commercialization rights to our product candidate to larger third party partners, who will be responsible for sales, distribution and marketing efforts, or we may 

&#160;

(assuming adequate resources are available) retain commercial rights for our product candidate, in which case we would seek to access the oncology market through a focused, specialized sales force of our own or in conjunction with a marketing partner under a co-promotion agreement. 

Competition 

The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and substantial regulatory and technological changes. Developments by others may render our itraconazole therapies, or any proposed product candidates and formulations under development, non-competitive or obsolete, or we may be unable to keep pace with anti-cancer therapy developments or other market factors. Anti-cancer therapy competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. 

Below are some examples of companies seeking to develop potentially competitive anti-cancer therapies or related products, though the examples are not all-inclusive. Many of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities than do we, as well as substantially more marketing, manufacturing, financial and managerial resources. These entities represent significant competition for us. In addition, acquisitions of, or investments in, competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies by large corporations could increase such competitors&#146; research, financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources. Such potential competitive anti-cancer therapies may ultimately prove to be safer, more effective or less costly than any product candidates that we are currently developing or may be able to develop. Additionally, our competitive position may be materially affected by our ability to develop or commercialize our drugs and technologies before any such competitor. Other external factors may also impact the ability of our products to meet expectations or effectively compete, including pricing pressures, healthcare reform and other government interventions. 

The chart below lists products or products in development that we believe may compete directly with our proposed SUBA-Itraconazole therapy: 

&#160;

Names 

&#160; Company 

&#160; Description 

&#160; Status 

Taxotere &#174; docetaxel &#160; Sanofi-Aventis &#160; Anti-tumor agent for MCRPC and late-stage NSCLC &#160; Approved 2004; and new generics Jevtana &#174; cabazitaxel &#160; Sanofi-Aventis &#160; MCRPC following docetaxel failure &#160; Approved 2010 Provenge &#174; sipuleucel-T &#160; Dendreon &#160; Immunotherapy for asymptomatic MCRPC &#160; Approved 2010 Zytiga &#174; aberaterone &#160; Janssen Biotech &#160; Androgen synthesis inhibitor for MCRPC &#160; Approved 2011 Xtandi &#174; enzalutamide &#160; Astellas &#160; Androgen receptor inhibitor for MCRPC previously on docetaxel &#160; Approved 2012 Erivedge &#174; vismodegib &#160; Roche Genentech &#160; Hedgehog inhibitor for advanced and metastatic BCC &#160; Approved 2012 Odomzo &#174; &#160;- sonidegib &#160; Novartis &#160; Hedgehog inhibitor for advanced and metastatic BCC &#160; Approved 2015 Avastin &#174; bevacizumab &#160; Genentech &#160; Angiogenesis inhibitor for NSCLC except squamous cell lung cancer &#160; Approved for multiple cancers since 2004 Gemzar &#174; gemcitabine &#160; Lilly &#160; Cytotoxic chemotherapy agent for NSCLC in combination with platinum drugs &#160; Approved for multiple cancers since 1996 Trexall &#174; methotrexate &#160; Teva &#160; Antimetabolite therapy to slow cancer cell growth &#160; Approved before 1984 &#160;

Names 

&#160; Company 

&#160; Description 

&#160; Status 

Tarceva &#174; erlotinib &#160; &#160; Epidermal growth factor inhibitor treatment for NSCLC - maintenance therapy after chemo or metastatic disease after chemo &#160; Approved in 2013 Xalkori &#174; crizotinib &#160; Pfizer &#160; Selective inhibitor for late-state NSCLC patients who express the ALK gene &#160; Approved in 2011 Gilotrif &#174; afatinib &#160; Boehringer &#160; NSCLC with mutations in EGFR &#160; Approved 2013 Zykadia &#174; certinib &#160; Novartis &#160; ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC for patients who progressed on Xalkori &#160; Approved 2014 Opdivo &#174; nivolumab &#160; BMS &#160; Metastatic squamous NSCLC &#160; Approved 2015 Portrassa &#174; necitumumab &#160; Lilly &#160; Metastatic squamous NSCLC &#160; Approved 2015 Tagrisso &#174; osimertinib &#160; AstraZenica &#160; EGFR mutation positive NSCLC &#160; Approved 2015 Abbreviations: MCRPC (metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer), NSCLC (non-small cell lung cancer), BCC (basal cell carcinoma), EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor). 

Government Regulation and Product Approval 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, import and export of pharmaceutical products such as those we are developing. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and in foreign countries, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

United States Government Regulation 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and its implementing regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable United States requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as the FDA&#146;s refusal to approve pending new drug applications, or NDAs, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of warning or untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. 

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA&#146;s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an IND which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; approval by an independent institutional review board (&#147;IRB&#148;) at each clinical site before each trial may be initiated; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of human clinical trials, including adequate and well-controlled clinical trials, in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each indication; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an NDA; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA advisory committee review, if applicable; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices (&#147;cGMP&#148;) and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity, as well as satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of selected clinical sites to determine GCP compliance; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA. Preclinical Studies. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies to assess potential safety and efficacy. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data and any available clinical data or literature, among other things, to the FDA as part of an IND. Some preclinical testing may continue even after the IND is submitted. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to one or more proposed clinical trials and places the clinical trial on a clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence. 

We have successfully avoided pre-clinical studies or any Phase I studies to demonstrate safety based on the fact that itraconazole has an established history of safe and effective use in humans for anti-fungal indications based upon the fact that human data are already available and published regarding use of itraconazole in humans for anti-cancer indications, such as basal cell carcinoma, lung cancer and prostate cancer, at the Phase II level and the December 2014 clearance of our IND for human testing in a Phase II(b) clinical trial for which we began dosing patients during fourth quarter of 2015. 

Clinical Trials. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing for their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. In addition, an IRB (institutional review board) at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must continue to oversee the clinical trial while it is being conducted. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for public dissemination on their ClinicalTrials.gov website. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined. In Phase I, the drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients with the target disease or condition and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an initial indication of its effectiveness. In Phase II, the drug typically is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. In Phase III, the drug is administered to an expanded patient population, generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, in well-controlled clinical trials to generate enough data to statistically evaluate the efficacy and safety of the product for approval, to establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. As mentioned previously, we are moving directly into Phase II trials with SUBA-Itraconazole for our targeted anti-cancer indications based upon the previous, well-established safety profile of itraconazole use in humans for treatment of anti-fungal indications and based upon the previous human data regarding the use of itraconazole for anti-cancer indications such as basal cell carcinoma, lung cancer and prostate cancer and the IND clearance by FDA which occurred in December 2014. 

Marketing Approval. Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical and clinical studies, together with detailed information relating to the product&#146;s chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. In most cases, the submission of an NDA is subject to a substantial application user fee. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (&#147;PDUFA&#148;) guidelines that are currently in effect, the FDA has agreed to certain performance goals regarding the timing of its review of an application. 

&#160;

The FDA also may require submission of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (&#147;REMS&#148;) plan to mitigate any identified or suspected serious risks. The REMS plan could include medication guides, physician communication plans, assessment plans, and elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries or other risk minimization tools. We believe that a REMS program, which includes intellectual property related to SUBA-Itraconazole and itraconazole, and the specific use of SUBA-Itraconazole for anti-cancer indications, may likely provide additional protection of our proposed therapies from generic substitution. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of all NDAs within the first 60 days after submission, before accepting them for filing, to determine whether they are sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether the drug is safe and effective and whether the facility in which it is manufactured, processed, packaged or held meets standards designed to assure the product&#146;s continued safety, quality and purity. 

The FDA typically refers a question regarding a novel drug to an external advisory committee. An advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical trial sites to assure compliance with GCP. 

After evaluating the NDA and all related information, including the advisory committee recommendation, if any, and inspection reports regarding the manufacturing facilities and clinical trial sites, the FDA may issue an approval letter, or, in some cases, a complete response letter. A complete response letter generally contains a statement of specific conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval of the NDA and may require additional clinical or preclinical testing in order for FDA to reconsider the application. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. If and when those conditions have been met to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction, the FDA will typically issue an approval letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. Even if the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use of the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, including a boxed warning, require that post-approval studies, including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess a drug&#146;s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms under a REMS (Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategy) which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-marketing studies or surveillance programs. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes, and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

Special FDA Expedited Review and Approval Programs. The FDA has various programs, including fast track designation, accelerated approval, priority review and breakthrough designation, that are intended to expedite or simplify the process for the development and FDA review of drugs that are intended for the treatment of serious or life threatening diseases or conditions and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs. The purpose of these programs is to provide important new drugs to patients earlier than under standard FDA review procedures. To be eligible for a fast track designation, the FDA must determine, based on the request of a sponsor, that a product is intended to treat a serious or life threatening disease or condition and demonstrates the potential to address an unmet medical need. The FDA will determine that a product will fill an unmet medical need if it will provide a therapy where none exists or provide a therapy that may be potentially superior to existing therapy based on efficacy or safety factors. 

The FDA may give a priority review designation to drugs that offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. A priority review means that the goal for the FDA to review an application is six months, rather than the standard review of ten months under current PDUFA guidelines. These six and ten month review periods are measured from the &#147;filing&#148; date rather than the receipt date for NDAs for new molecular entities, which typically adds approximately two months to the timeline for review and decision from the date of submission. Most products that are eligible for fast track designation are also likely to be considered appropriate to receive a priority review. 

In addition, products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing treatments may receive accelerated approval and may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is 

&#160;

reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require a sponsor of a drug receiving accelerated approval to perform post-marketing studies to verify and describe the predicted effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical endpoint, and the drug may be subject to accelerated withdrawal procedures. 

Moreover, under the provisions of the new Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, enacted in 2012, a sponsor can request designation of a product candidate as a &#147;breakthrough therapy.&#148; A breakthrough therapy is defined as a drug that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. Drugs designated as breakthrough therapies are also eligible for accelerated approval. The FDA must take certain actions, such as holding timely meetings and providing advice, intended to expedite the development and review of an application for approval of a breakthrough therapy. 

Even if a product qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the product no longer meets the conditions for qualification or decide that the time period for FDA review or approval will not be shortened. We believe that we may qualify for one or more of these expedited approvals since our itraconazole anti-cancer therapies offer significant improvements in therapy for all of our targeted anti-cancer indications should they be approved by FDA. 

Post-Approval Requirements. Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. 

The FDA may impose a number of post-approval requirements as a condition of approval of an NDA. For example, the FDA may require post-marketing testing, including Phase IV clinical trials and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product&#146;s safety and effectiveness after commercialization. In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. 

Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in mandatory revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Although physicians, in the practice of medicine, may prescribe approved drugs for unapproved indications, pharmaceutical companies generally are required to promote their drug products only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability. 

&#160;

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act (&#147;PDMA&#148;), which regulates the distribution of drugs and drug samples at the federal level, and sets minimum standards for the registration and regulation of drug distributors by the states. Both the PDMA and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples and impose requirements to ensure accountability in distribution. 

Federal and State Fraud and Abuse and Data Privacy and Security Laws and Regulations. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, federal and state fraud and abuse laws restrict business practices in the biopharmaceutical industry. These laws include anti-kickback and false claims laws and regulations as well as data privacy and security laws and regulations. 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease, or order of any item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. The term &#147;remuneration&#148; has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly. Practices that involve remuneration that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchases, or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Several courts have interpreted the statute&#146;s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. 

The reach of the Anti-Kickback Statute was also broadened by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the &#147;PPACA&#148;), which, among other things, amended the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act or the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes penalties against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. PPACA also created new federal requirements for reporting, by applicable manufacturers of covered drugs, payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals. 

The federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. A claim includes &#147;any request or demand&#148; for money or property presented to the U.S. government. Several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the companies&#146; marketing of products for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (&#147;HIPAA&#148;) created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third party payors and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Also, many states have similar fraud and abuse statutes or regulations that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. 

In addition, we may be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act (&#147;HITECH&#148;) and its implementing regulations, imposes specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA&#146;s privacy and security standards directly applicable to &#147;business associates,&#148; defined as independent contractors or agents of covered entities that receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney&#146;s fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Coverage and Reimbursement. The commercial success of our product candidate and our ability to commercialize any approved product candidate will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors provide coverage for and establish adequate reimbursement levels for our therapeutic product candidates and related 

&#160;

companion diagnostics. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels for healthcare. In particular, in the United States, private health insurers and other third party payors often provide reimbursement for products and services based on the level at which the government (through the Medicare or Medicaid programs) provides reimbursement for such treatments. In the United States, government authorities and third party payors are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which often has resulted in average selling prices lower than they would otherwise be. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our future product sales and results of operations. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. 

Third party payors are increasingly imposing additional requirements and restrictions on coverage and limiting reimbursement levels for medical products. For example, federal and state governments reimburse covered prescription drugs at varying rates generally below average wholesale price. These restrictions and limitations influence the purchase of healthcare services and products. Legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce costs under government insurance programs may result in lower reimbursement for our products and product candidates or exclusion of our products and product candidates from coverage. The cost containment measures that healthcare payors and providers are instituting and any healthcare reform could significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of any approved product candidates. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain and maintain third party coverage or adequate reimbursement for our product candidate in whole or in part. 

Impact of Healthcare Reform on Coverage, Reimbursement, and Pricing. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (&#147;MMA&#148;) imposed new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities that provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Part D plans include both standalone prescription drug benefit plans and prescription drug coverage as a supplement to Medicare Advantage plans. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for any products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our future products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan will likely be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from Medicare Part D may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. 

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. A plan for the research will be developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes for Health, and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures will be made to Congress. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payors, it is not clear what effect, if any, the research will have on the sales of any product, if any such product or the condition that it is intended to treat is the subject of a study. It is also possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits in a competitor&#146;s product could adversely affect the sales of our product candidates. If third party payors do not consider our product candidates to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our product candidates, once approved, as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. 

The United States is considering enacting or has enacted a number of additional legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives, including, most recently, PPACA, which became law in March 2010 and substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among other cost containment measures, the PPACA establishes an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents; a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program; and a new formula that increases the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. In the future, there may continue to be additional proposals relating to the reform of the U.S. healthcare system, some of which could further limit the prices we are able to charge for our product candidates, once approved, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our product candidates once they are approved. 

&#160;

Exclusivity and Approval of Competing Products 

Hatch-Waxman Patent Exclusivity. In seeking approval for a drug through an NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims that cover the applicant&#146;s product or a method of using the product. Upon approval of a drug, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in the FDA&#146;s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. Drugs listed in the Orange Book can, in turn, be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or 505(b)(2) NDA. 

Generally, an ANDA provides for marketing of a drug product that has the same active ingredients in the same strengths, dosage form and route of administration as the listed drug and has been shown to be bioequivalent through in vitro or in vivo testing or otherwise to the listed drug. ANDA applicants are not required to conduct or submit results of preclinical or clinical tests to prove the safety or effectiveness of their drug product, other than the requirement for bioequivalence testing. Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as &#147;generic equivalents&#148; to the listed drug, and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the original listed drug. 505(b)(2) NDAs generally are submitted for changes to a previously approved drug product, such as a new dosage form or indication. The 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway may be available for our proposed application of itraconazole as an anti-cancer therapy. 

The ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA&#146;s Orange Book, except for patents covering methods of use for which the ANDA applicant is not seeking approval. Specifically, the applicant must certify with respect to each patent that: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the required patent information has not been filed; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has expired; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed by the new product. Generally, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA cannot be approved until all listed patents have expired, except when the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant challenges a listed drug. A certification that the proposed product will not infringe the already approved product&#146;s listed patents or that such patents are invalid or unenforceable is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents or indicate that it is not seeking approval of a patented method of use, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. 

If the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days after the receipt of notice of the Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA until the earlier of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant. 

Hatch-Waxman Non-Patent Exclusivity. Market and data exclusivity provisions under the FDCA also can delay the submission or the approval of certain applications for competing products. The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent data exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the activity of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company that contains the previously approved active moiety. However, an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement. 

The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA, or supplement to an existing NDA or 505(b)(2) NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant, are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application or supplement. Three-year exclusivity may be awarded for changes to a previously approved drug product, such as new indications, dosages, strengths or dosage forms of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions of use associated with the new clinical investigations and, as a general matter, does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs or 505(b)(2) NDAs for generic versions of the original, unmodified drug product. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA; however, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the preclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. 

&#160;

Orphan Drug Exclusivity. The Orphan Drug Act provides incentives for the development of drugs intended to treat rare diseases or conditions, which generally are diseases or conditions affecting less than 200,000 individuals annually in the United States. If a sponsor demonstrates that a drug is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, the FDA grants orphan drug designation to the product for that use. The benefits of orphan drug designation include research and development tax credits and exemption from user fees. A drug that is approved for the orphan drug designated indication is granted seven years of orphan drug exclusivity. During that period, the FDA generally may not approve any other application for the same product for the same indication, although there are exceptions, most notably when the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the product with exclusivity. We have begun the process to seek orphan drug designation and exclusivity for our product candidate to include treatment of basal cell carcinoma in patients with Gorlin syndrome and may, in the future, apply for orphan drug indication for stage IV non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer. 

Foreign Regulation 

Although it is not presently our intention to seek approval of our product candidate outside of the United States, in the future we may do so, either directly or in conjunction with a marketing partner. In order to market any product outside of the United States, we would need to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of our products. This would be the responsibility of one or more of our potential marketing partners. We do however intend to include sites outside the United States for our clinical trials in order to be able to recruit more patients for testing at a greater number of locations and in less time than if we were to focus only on US-based sites. For example, in the European Union, we would need to obtain authorization of a clinical trial application in each member state in which we intend to conduct a clinical trial. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 

Employees 

As of February 1, 2016, we have 3 full-time employees and 1 part-time employee. One is involved in our clinical development program and operations and three handle our administration and accounting. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. From time to time, we also employ independent contractors to support our clinical development and administrative functions. We currently have contracted a regulatory consultant, an Orphan Drug Consulting Company and a Contract Research Organization to spearhead our efforts on clinical development. We consider relations with all of our employees to be good. Each of our employees has entered into confidentiality, intellectual property assignment and non-competition agreements with us. 

Corporate History 

We were founded under the name &#147;Commonwealth Biotechnologies, Inc.&#148; in Virginia in 1992, and completed an initial public offering in October 1997 (we refer to our company prior to our emergence from bankruptcy as &#147;CBI&#148;). CBI previously provided, on a contract basis, specialized life sciences services to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sector. 

On January 20, 2011, CBI filed a voluntary petition in the Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Virginia seeking relief under the provisions of Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code (the &#147;Bankruptcy Code&#148;). The Chapter 11 case was captioned In re Commonwealth Biotechnologies, Inc. , Case No. 11-30381-KRH. On January 4, 2013, CBI filed an Amended Plan of Reorganization (the &#147;Plan&#148;) with the Bankruptcy Court. The Plan was approved by a vote of creditors and CBI stockholders on March 21, 2013. Hedgepath, LLC, a Florida limited liability company and a significant stockholder of our company of which our current Executive Chairman acts as manager, was the winning bidder for CBI (which is sometimes referred to herein as HPPI in its capacity as the reorganized company, after giving effect to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the reincorporation merger and acquisition described below). CBI received an auction fee of $30,000 from Hedgepath, LLC in addition to an agreement to contribute certain assets related to our current business of commercializing innovative therapeutics for patients with cancer using the approved pharmaceutical itraconazole (the &#147;Itra Business Opportunity&#148;). 

On March 29, 2013, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the Plan pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, and on April 17, 2013, CBI issued a press release announcing the effectiveness of such confirmation order. 

Under the terms of the Plan, and pursuant to a Contribution Agreement, dated August 13, 2013, Hedgepath, LLC contributed and assigned to HPPI certain assets relating to the Itra Business Opportunity, as the reorganized debtor, in exchange for 90% of fully diluted voting equity in HPPI (in the form of newly issued Series A Preferred Stock, which was subsequently converted to Common Stock) on the date of issuance, with the prior stockholders of CBI retaining approximately 10% voting equity in HPPI, represented by 100% of HPPI&#146;s issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock. As the elements of the Plan have been implemented (including the payment in full of all company creditors), HPPI formally closed CBI&#146;s bankruptcy case on September 20, 2013. 

&#160;

On August 12, 2013, CBI consummated a short-form reincorporation merger with and into HPPI, its wholly-owned Delaware subsidiary, pursuant to which CBI changed its name to &#147;HedgePath Pharmaceuticals, Inc.&#148; and became reincorporated as a Delaware corporation. 

On August 13, 2013, HPPI and Hedgepath LLC consummated the transactions contemplated by the Contribution Agreement, including the acquisition of Itra Business Opportunity assets, as contemplated by the Plan. 

Prior to such transactions, CBI was a shell company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, having been subject to bankruptcy proceedings and with no operations. CBI formally emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy following the consummation of such transactions, which satisfied the final condition to effectiveness of the Plan. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are filed with the SEC. Such reports and other information that we file with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at http://www.hedgepathpharma.com/#!investor-relations/ctts when such reports are available on the SEC website. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the foregoing references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

&#160;

