 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

&#160; The terms "B&#38;G Foods," "our," "we" and "us," as used in this report, refer to B&#38;G Foods, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, except where it is clear that the term refers only to the parent company. Throughout this report, we refer to our fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, December 29, 2012, December 28, 2013, January 3, 2015 and January 2, 2016 as "fiscal 2011," "fiscal 2012," "fiscal 2013," "fiscal 2014" and "fiscal 2015," respectively. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53 week reporting period ending on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal 2014 contained 53 weeks and fiscal 2015, 2013, 2012 and 2011 each contained 52 weeks. 

B&#38;G Foods manufactures, sells and distributes a diverse portfolio of branded, high quality, shelf-stable and frozen food and household products across the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Many of our branded products have leading regional or national market shares. In general, we position our products to appeal to the consumer desiring a high quality and reasonably priced product. We complement our branded product retail sales with institutional and food service sales and limited private label sales. 

B&#38;G Foods, including our subsidiaries and predecessors, has been in business for over 120 years. We were incorporated in Delaware on November 25, 1996 under the name B Companies Holdings Corp. On August 11, 1997, we changed our name to B&#38;G Foods Holdings Corp. On October 14, 2004, B&#38;G Foods, Inc., then our wholly owned subsidiary, was merged with and into us and we were renamed B&#38;G Foods, Inc. 

Our company has been built upon a successful track record of both organic and acquisition-related growth. Our goal is to continue to increase sales, profitability and cash flows through organic growth, disciplined acquisitions of complementary branded businesses and new product development. Since 1996, we have successfully acquired and integrated more than 40 brands into our company. 

The table below includes some of the acquisitions we have completed in recent years: 

Date 

&#160; Significant Event November 2011 &#160; Acquisition of the Mrs. Dash , Baker's Joy , Sugar Twin , Static Guard , Molly McButter and Kleen Guard brands from Conopco, Inc. dba Unilever United States, Inc., referred to as the " Mrs. Dash acquisition" in the remainder of this document. October 2012 &#160; Acquisition of the New York Style , Devonsheer , JJ Flats and Old London brands from Chipita America, Inc., referred to as the " New York Style acquisition" in the remainder of this document. May 2013 &#160; Acquisition of the TrueNorth brand from DeMet's Candy Company, referred to as the " TrueNorth acquisition" in the remainder of this document. July 2013 &#160; Acquisition of Pirate Brands, LLC, including the Pirate's Booty , Smart Puffs and Original Tings brands from affiliates of VMG Partners and Driven Capital Management, and certain other entities and individuals, referred to as the "Pirate Brands acquisition" in the remainder of this document. October 2013 &#160; Acquisition of Rickland Orchards LLC, including the Rickland Orchards brand, from Natural Instincts LLC, referred to as the " Rickland Orchards acquisition" in the remainder of this document. April 2014 &#160; Acquisition of Specialty Brands of America, Inc. and related entities, including the Bear Creek Country Kitchens , Spring Tree , Cary's , MacDonald's , New York Flatbreads and Canoleo brands, from affiliates of American Capital, Ltd., referred to as the "Specialty Brands acquisition" in the remainder of this document. July 2015 &#160; Acquisition of Spartan Foods of America, Inc., and related entities, including the Mama Mary's brand, from Linsalata Capital Partners and certain other sellers, referred to as the " Mama Mary's acquisition" in the remainder of this document. November 2015 &#160; Acquisition of the Green Giant and Le Sueur brands from General Mills, Inc., referred to as the " Green Giant acquisition" in the remainder of this document. 

Products and Markets 

The following is a brief description of some of our brands and product lines: 

The Green Giant and Le Sueur brands trace their roots to Le Sueur, Minnesota in 1903, and the Minnesota Valley Canning Company. For more than 100 years, fresh and great-tasting Green Giant and Le Sueur vegetables have been grown and picked at the peak of perfection in the Valley of the Jolly Green Giant. In the remainder of this document, we generally refer to the Green Giant and Le Sueur brands collectively as the " Green Giant brand." 

The Ortega brand has been in existence since 1897; its products span the shelf-stable Mexican food segment including taco shells, tortillas, seasonings, dinner kits, taco sauces, peppers, refried beans, salsas and related food products. 

Pirate Brands, which includes Pirate's Booty , Smart Puffs and Original Tings , originated in 1987 and offers baked, trans fat free and gluten free snacks. In 2014, Pirate Brands began offering several varieties of Pirate's Booty mac &#38; cheese made with organic pasta and real cheese. 

The Maple Grove Farms of Vermont brand, which originated in 1915, is one of the leading brands of pure maple syrup sold in the United States. Other products under the Maple Grove Farms of Vermont label include a line of gourmet salad dressings, sugar free syrups, marinades, fruit syrups, confections, pancake mixes and organic products. 

The Mrs. Dash brand, which was introduced in 1983 as the original brand in salt-free seasonings, is available in more than a dozen blends. In 2005, the leading brand in salt-free seasonings introduced 6 salt-free marinades. Mrs. Dash's brand essence, "Salt-Free, Flavor-Full," resonates with consumers and underscores the brand's commitment to provide healthy products that fulfill consumers' expectations for taste. 

The Cream of Wheat brand was introduced in 1893 and is among the leading brands and one of the most trusted and widely recognized brands of hot cereals sold in the United States. Cream of Wheat is available in Original, Whole Grain and Maple Brown Sugar stove top, and also in instant packets of Original and other flavors. We also offer Cream of Rice , a gluten-free, rice-based hot cereal. 

The Bear Creek Country Kitchens brand is the leading brand of hearty dry soups in the United States. Bear Creek Country Kitchens also offers a line of savory pasta dishes and hearty rice dishes. 

The Mama Mary's brand was introduced in 1986 and is a leading brand of shelf-stable pizza crusts. Mama Mary's also offers pizza sauces and premium gourmet pepperoni slices. 

The Las Palmas brand originated in 1922 and primarily includes authentic Mexican enchilada sauce, chili sauce and various pepper products. 

The Polaner brand was introduced in 1880 and is comprised of a broad array of fruit-based spreads as well as jarred wet spices such as chopped garlic and oregano. Polaner All Fruit is a leading national brand of fruit-juice sweetened fruit spread. The spreads are available in more than a dozen flavors. Polaner Sugar Free preserves are the second leading brand of sugar free preserves nationally. 

The Bloch &#38; Guggenheimer (B&#38;G) brand originated in 1889, and its pickle, pepper and relish products are a leading brand in the New York metropolitan area. This line consists of shelf-stable pickles, peppers, relishes, olives and other related specialty items. 

The New York Style brand was created in 1985 and includes Original Bagel Crisps , Pita Chips and Panetini Italian Toast. 

The Spring Tree brand originated in 1976 in Brattleboro, Vermont, and consists of pure maple syrup and sugar free syrup. 

The TrueNorth brand was introduced in 2008. TrueNorth nut cluster snacks combine freshly roasted nuts, a dash of sea salt and just a hint of sweetness. TrueNorth varieties include almond pecan crunch, chocolate nut crunch and cashew crunch. 

The B&#38;M brand was introduced in 1927 and is the original brand of brick-oven baked beans and remains one of the very few authentic baked beans. The B&#38;M line includes a variety of baked beans and brown bread. The B&#38;M brand currently has a leading market share in the New England region. 

The Underwood brand's " Underwood Devil " logo, which was registered in 1870, is believed to be the oldest registered trademark still in use for a prepackaged food product in the United States. Underwood meat spreads, which were introduced in the late 1860s, include deviled ham, white-meat chicken, roast beef, corned beef and liverwurst. 

The Ac'cent brand was introduced in 1947 as a flavor enhancer for meat preparation and is generally used on beef, poultry, fish and vegetables. We believe that Ac'cent is positioned as a unique flavor enhancer that provides food with the "umami" flavor sensation. 

The Emeril's brand was introduced in 2000 under a licensing agreement with celebrity chef Emeril Lagasse. We offer a line of pasta sauces, seasonings, cooking stocks, mustards, salsas, pepper sauces, dip mixes and cooking sprays under the Emeril's brand name. 

The Trappey's brand, which was introduced in 1898, has a Louisiana heritage. Trappey's products fall into two major categories&#151;high quality peppers and hot sauces, including Trappey's Red Devil . 

The Grandma's brand of molasses, which was introduced in 1890, is the leading brand of premium-quality molasses sold in the United States. Grandma's molasses products are offered in two distinct styles: Grandma's Original Molasses and Grandma's Robust Molasses. 

The Don Pepino and Sclafani brands originated in 1955 and 1900, respectively, and primarily include pizza and spaghetti sauces, whole and crushed tomatoes and tomato puree. 

The Joan of Arc brand, which originated in 1895, includes a full range of canned beans including kidney, chili and other varieties. 

The Old London brand was created in 1932 and offers a wide variety of flavors available in melba toasts, melba rounds and other snacks. Old London also markets specialty snacks under the Devonsheer and JJ Flats brand names. 

The Static Guard brand, the number one brand name in static elimination sprays, created the anti-static spray category when it was launched in 1978 to fulfill a previously unmet consumer need. The brand's ability to consistently deliver on its promise to "instantly eliminate static cling" has resulted in a loyal consumer following. 

The Cary's brand originated in 1904 and is the oldest brand of pure maple syrup in the United States. Cary's also offers sugar free syrup. 

The Regina brand, which has been in existence since 1949, includes vinegars and cooking wines. Regina products are most commonly used in the preparation of salad dressings as well as in a variety of recipe applications, including sauces, marinades and soups. 

The Baker's Joy brand was introduced in 1982 and is the original brand of no-stick baking spray with flour. Baker's Joy 's product proposition has been to "generate a perfect release from the pan every time," making baking easier, faster and more successful for everyday bakers. 

The Sugar Twin brand was developed in 1968 and is a calorie free sugar substitute. 

The Wright's brand was introduced in 1895 and is a seasoning that reproduces the flavor and aroma of pit smoking in meats, chicken and fish. Wright's is offered in three flavors: Hickory, Mesquite and Applewood. 

The Rickland Orchards brand was created in 2012 and its products include Greek yogurt coated bites. 

The Brer Rabbit brand has been in existence since 1907 and currently offers mild and full-flavored molasses as well as blackstrap molasses. Mild molasses is designed for table use and full-flavored molasses is typically used in baking, barbeque sauces and as a breakfast syrup. 

The Sa-s&#243;n brand was introduced in 1947 as a flavor enhancer used primarily for Puerto Rican and Hispanic food preparation. The product is generally used on beef, poultry, fish and vegetables. The brand's flavor enhancer is offered in four flavors: Original, Coriander and Achiote, Garlic and Onion, and Tomato. We also offer reduced sodium versions of Sa-s&#243;n . 

The New York Flatbreads brand is a line of thin, crispy, flavorful crispbread that is available in several toppings. 

The Vermont Maid brand has been in existence since 1919 and offers maple-flavored syrups. Vermont Maid syrup is available in regular, sugar-free and sugar-free butter varieties. 

The Molly McButter brand created the butter-flavored sprinkles category in 1987. Molly McButter is available in butter and cheese flavors. 

The Canoleo brand is the first margarine made from 100% canola oil. It is an all-purpose margarine used for spreading, cooking and baking. 

Food Industry 

The food industry is one of the United States' largest industries. It has been characterized by relatively stable sales growth, based largely on price and population increases. As large food companies with a presence in a variety of branded product categories seek tighter focus within their businesses, they have shed brands or an entire presence in non-core categories. They have also sold smaller brands to increase focus on the larger brands within their portfolios. 

In the past decade, the retail side of the food industry has seen a continuing shift of sales to alternate food outlets such as supercenters, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and drug stores. This shift has caused consolidation of traditional grocery chains into larger entities, often spanning the country under varying banner names. Consolidation has increased the importance of having a number one or two brand within a category, be that position national or regional. A broad sales and distribution infrastructure has also become critical for food companies, allowing them to reach all outlets selling food to consumers and expanding their growth opportunities. 

Sales, Marketing and Distribution. 

Overview. We sell, market and distribute our products through a multiple-channel sales, marketing and distribution system to all major U.S. food channels, including sales and shipments to supermarkets, mass merchants, warehouse clubs, wholesalers, food service distributors and direct accounts, specialty food distributors, military commissaries and non-food outlets such as drug and dollar store chains. Certain of our brands, including Green Giant , Cream of Wheat , Ac'cent , Crock Pot seasoning mixes, Underwood , Polaner , Static Guard , Mrs. Dash , New York Style , Sugar Twin and Rickland Orchards , are also distributed to similar food channels in Canada. We sell, market and distribute our household brand, Static Guard , through the same sales, marketing and distribution system to many of the same customers who buy our food products as well as to other household product retailers and distributors. 

We sell our products primarily through broker sales networks to supermarket chains, food service outlets, mass merchants, warehouse clubs, non-food outlets and specialty distributors. The broker sales network handles the sale of our products at the retail level. 

Sales. Our sales organization is aligned by distribution channels and consists of regional sales managers, key account managers and sales persons. Regional sales managers sell our products nationwide through national and regional brokers, with separate organizations focusing on food service, grocery chain accounts and special markets. Our sales managers coordinate our broker sales efforts, make key account calls with buyers or distributors and supervise broker retail coverage of the products at the store level. 

Our sales strategy is centered on individual brands. We allocate promotional spending for each of our brands and our regional sales managers coordinate promotions with customers. Additionally, our marketing department works in conjunction with the sales department to coordinate special account activities and marketing support, such as couponing, public relations and media advertising. 

We have a national sales force that is capable of supporting our current brands and quickly integrating and supporting any newly acquired brands, including the recently acquired Green Giant brand. 

Marketing. Our marketing organization is aligned by brand and is responsible for the strategic planning for each of our brands. We focus on deploying promotional dollars where we believe the spending will have the greatest impact on sales. Marketing and trade spending support, on a national basis, typically consists of advertising trade promotions, coupons and cross-promotions with supporting products. Radio, internet, social media and limited television advertising supplement this activity. 

Distribution. We distribute our products through a multiple-channel system that covers every class of customer nationwide. We believe that our distribution system for shelf-stable products has sufficient capacity to accommodate incremental product volume. See Item 2, "Properties" for a listing of our owned and leased distribution centers and warehouses. Two of our leased distribution centers are operated for us by a third party logistics provider. A third leased distribution center is currently being transitioned and will soon be operated by the same third party logistics provider. In Canada, Mexico and from time to time in the United States we also use public warehouse and distribution facilities. 

Warehousing and distribution for our recently acquired Green Giant products is currently being managed for us by General Mills pursuant to a one-year transition services agreement that expires on November 2, 2016. Following the completion of the transition period (which we may choose to terminate prior to the end of the scheduled transition period), we will transfer responsibility for warehousing and distribution of the shelf-stable Green Giant products to our existing distribution centers and third party logistics provider. We are also contemplating adding a fourth primary distribution center in the United States. However, due to the different demands of distribution for shelf-stable and frozen products, we plan to maintain separate distribution systems and are in the process of arranging for third parties to manage the warehousing and distribution of the frozen Green Giant products following the completion of the transition period. 

Customers 

Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 52.3% of our net sales and 53.5% of our end of the year receivables for fiscal 2015. Other than Wal-Mart, which accounted for 20.4% of our fiscal 2015 net sales, no single customer accounted for 10.0% or more of our fiscal 2015 net sales. Other than Wal-Mart, which accounted for 19.3% of our receivables as of the end of fiscal 2015, no single customer accounted for more than 10.0% of our receivables as of the end of fiscal 2015. During fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, our net sales to foreign countries represented approximately 5.2%, 3.6% and 3.2%, respectively, of our total net sales. Our foreign sales are primarily to customers in Canada. The increase in net sales to foreign countries in fiscal 2015 was primarily attributable to the Green Giant acquisition completed on November 2, 2015. For fiscal 2016, Green Giant, which has significant net sales to Canada, is expected to increase our net sales to foreign countries to approximately 6.7% of our total net sales. 

Seasonality 

Sales of a number of our products tend to be seasonal and may be influenced by holidays, changes in seasons/weather or certain other annual events. In general, our sales are higher in the first and fourth quarters. 

We purchase most of the produce used to make our frozen and shelf-stable canned vegetables, pickles, relishes, peppers, tomatoes and other related specialty items during the months of June through October, and we generally purchase the majority of our maple syrup requirements during the months of April through August. Consequently, our liquidity needs are greatest during these periods. 

Competition 

We face competition in each of our product lines. Numerous brands and products compete for shelf space and sales, with competition based primarily on product quality, convenience, price, trade promotion, consumer promotion, brand recognition and loyalty, customer service, advertising and other activities and the ability to identify and satisfy emerging consumer preferences. We compete with numerous companies of varying sizes, including divisions or subsidiaries of larger companies. Many of these competitors have multiple product lines, substantially greater financial and other resources and may have lower fixed costs and/or be substantially less leveraged than we are. Our ability to grow our 

business could be impacted by the relative effectiveness of, and competitive response to, our product initiatives, product innovation, advertising and promotional activities. In addition, from time to time, we experience margin pressure in certain markets as a result of competitors' pricing practices. 

Our products compete not only against other brands in their respective product categories, but also against products in similar or related product categories. For example, our shelf-stable pickles compete not only with other brands of shelf-stable pickles, but also with pickle products found in the refrigerated sections of grocery stores, and all our brands compete against private label products to varying degrees. 

Raw Materials 

We purchase raw materials, including agricultural products, meat, poultry, flour, other raw materials, ingredients and packaging materials from growers, commodity processors, other food companies and packaging suppliers located in U.S. and foreign locations. The principal raw materials for our products include corn, peas, broccoli, beans, maple syrup, wheat, corn, nuts, cheese, fruits, beans, tomatoes, peppers, meat, sugar, concentrates, molasses, spices and corn sweeteners. Vegetables for the Green Giant brand are primarily purchased under dedicated acreage supply contracts from a number of growers prior to each growing season with the remaining demand being sourced directly from third parties. We purchase certain other agricultural raw materials in bulk or pursuant to short-term supply contracts. Most of our agricultural products are purchased between April 1 and October 31. We also use packaging materials, particularly glass jars, cans, cardboard and plastic containers. The profitability of our business relies in substantial part on the prices we and our co-packers pay for these raw materials and packaging materials, which can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including changes in crop size, national, state and local government sponsored agricultural programs, export demand, currency exchange rates, natural disasters, weather conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons, water supply, general growing conditions, the effect of insects, plant diseases and fungi, and glass, metal and plastic prices. 

Fluctuations in commodity prices can lead to retail price volatility and intensive price competition, and can influence consumer and trade buying patterns. 

The cost of labor, manufacturing, energy, fuel, packaging materials and other costs related to the production and distribution of our food products can from time to time increase significantly and unexpectedly. We attempt to manage these risks by entering into short-term supply contracts and advance commodities purchase agreements, implementing cost saving measures and raising sales prices. During the past three years, our cost saving measures and sales price increases have substantially offset increases to our raw material, ingredient and packaging costs. To the extent we are unable to offset present and future cost increases, our operating results will be negatively impacted. 

Production 

Manufacturing. We operate nine manufacturing facilities for our products. See Item 2, "Properties" for a listing of our manufacturing facilities. 

Co-Packing Arrangements. In addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we source a significant portion of our products under "co-packing" arrangements, a common industry practice in which manufacturing is outsourced to other companies. We regularly evaluate our co-packing arrangements to ensure the most cost-effective manufacturing of our products and to utilize company-owned manufacturing facilities most effectively. Third parties located in U.S. and foreign locations produce our Baker's Joy , Bear Creek Country Kitchens , Canoleo , Cream of Rice , Crock Pot , Green Giant , JJ Flats , Joan of Arc , Le Sueur , MacDonald's , Mrs. Dash , New York Flatbreads , Pirate Brands, Regina , Rickland Orchards , Spring Tree , Static Guard , Sugar Twin and TrueNorth products and certain B&#38;G , Cary's , Cream of Wheat , Emeril's , Las Palmas and Ortega products under co-packing agreements or 

purchase orders. Each of our co-packers produces products for other companies as well. We believe that there are alternative sources of co-packing production readily available for the majority of our products, although we may experience short-term disturbances in our operations if we are required to change our co-packing arrangements unexpectedly. 

Approximately 60% of the recently acquired Green Giant products are co-packed for us by third-party manufacturers located in the United States, Canada, Europe and Peru. General Mills assigned to us as part of the Green Giant acquisition its rights and obligations under the co-packing agreements relating to those products. We manufacture approximately 30% of the Green Giant products in Irapuato, Mexico at a facility we acquired from General Mills as part of the Green Giant acquisition. The remaining Green Giant products are manufactured for us by General Mills at a General Mills facility located in Belvidere, Illinois pursuant to a two-year transition co-packing agreement that expires on November 2, 2017. During this transition period, we will evaluate shifting this production to either an existing B&#38;G Foods manufacturing facility, a co-packer, or a combination of both. 

Trademarks and Licensing Agreements 

Trademarks. We consider our trademarks, in the aggregate, to be material to our business. We protect our trademarks by registration in the United States, Canada and in other countries where we sell our products. We also oppose any infringement in key markets. Trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and in other countries for as long as it is registered. Registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. Examples of our trademarks and registered trademarks include Ac'cent, B&#38;G, B&#38;G Sandwich Toppers, B&#38;M, Baker's Joy, Bear Creek Country Kitchens, Brer Rabbit, Canoleo, Cary's, Cream of Rice, Cream of Wheat, Devonsheer, Don Pepino, Emeril's, Grandma's, Greek on the go!, Green Giant, JJ Flats, Joan of Arc, Las Palmas, Le Sueur, MacDonald's, Mama Mary's, Maple Grove Farms of Vermont, Molly McButter, Mrs. Dash, New York Flatbreads, New York Style, Old London, Original Tings, Ortega, Pirate's Booty, Polaner, Regina, Rickland Orchards, Sa-s&#243;n, Sclafani, Smart Puffs, Spring Tree, Static Guard, Sugar Twin, Trappey's, TrueNorth, Underwood, Vermont Maid and Wright's . 

Inbound License Agreements. From time to time we enter into in-bound licensing agreements. For example, we sell our Emeril's brand products pursuant to a license agreement with Sequential Brands Group, Cream of Wheat Cinnabon&#174;, a co-branded product, pursuant to a licensing agreement with Cinnabon, Inc. and Crock Pot&#174; Seasoning Mixes pursuant to a licensing agreement with Sunbeam Products, Inc. dba Jarden Consumer Solutions. In addition, from time to time, our Pirate Brands products, Cream of Wheat products and products of certain other of our brands license from third parties, a variety of trademarks, including various Disney, Marvel and Nickelodeon characters. 

Outbound License Agreements. We also enter from time to time enter into outbound license agreements for our trademarks. For example, the Green Giant trademark is licensed to third parties for use in connection with their sale of fresh produce in the United States and Europe. We also license the Green Giant name to General Mills for use with its sale of frozen and shelf stable products in Europe, Asia and in various other locations outside of the United States and Canada. 

Employees and Labor Relations 

As of January 2, 2016, our workforce consisted of 2,003 employees. Of that total, 1,824 employees were engaged in manufacturing, 78 were engaged in marketing and sales, 63 were engaged in warehouse and distribution and 38 were engaged in administration. Approximately 55% of our employees, located at three facilities in the United States and one facility in Mexico, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The agreements covering employees at the three facilities in the United States, which vary in term depending on the location, expire on April 29, 2017 (Portland, Maine; Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, AFL-CIO, 

Local No. 334), March 31, 2016 (Stoughton, Wisconsin; Drivers, Salesmen, Warehousemen, Milk Processors, Cannery, Dairy Employees and Helpers Union, Local No. 695) and March 31, 2020 (Roseland, New Jersey; International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen &#38; Helpers of America, Local No. 863). There are two unions representing employees at our facility in Mexico, (1) the Industrial Union of Stevedore Workers, Cargo Transport Operators and Similar from the Mexican Republic and (2) the Union of Agriculture Workers at the Service of the Region, and our collective bargaining agreements with these two unions do not expire, however, certain terms of the agreements must be reviewed periodically. The collective bargaining agreement covering our Stoughton facility, which covers approximately 178 employees, is the only collective bargaining agreement expiring in the next twelve months. While we believe that our relations with our union employees are in general good, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement for our Stoughton facility on terms satisfactory to us, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. At this time, however, management does not expect that the outcome of these negotiations will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Government Regulation 

As a manufacturer and marketer of food and household products, our operations are subject to extensive regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), the United States Department of Labor, the Environmental Protection Agency and various other federal, state, local and foreign authorities regarding the manufacturing, processing, packaging, storage, labeling, sale and distribution of our products and the health and safety of our employees. Our manufacturing facilities and products are subject to periodic inspection by federal, state, local and foreign authorities. In addition, our meat processing operation in Portland, Maine is subject to daily inspection by the USDA. 

We are subject to the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Food Safety Modernization Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the FDA. This comprehensive regulatory program governs, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, labeling, packaging and safety of food. We are also subject to the U.S. Bio-Terrorism Act of 2002 which imposes on us import and export regulations. Under the Bio-Terrorism Act we are required, among other things, to provide specific information about the food products we ship into the United States and to register our manufacturing, warehouse and distribution facilities with the FDA. 

We believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with all material governmental laws and regulations and maintain all material permits and licenses relating to our operations. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we are in full compliance with all such laws and regulations or that we will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations in a cost-effective manner. Failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 

Environmental Matters 

Environmental Sustainability. As part of our commitment to being a good corporate citizen, we consider environmental sustainability to be an important strategic focus area. For instance, our manufacturing operations have a variety of initiatives in place to reduce energy usage, conserve water, improve wastewater management, reduce packaging and where possible use recycled and recyclable packaging. We continue to evaluate and modify our manufacturing and other processes on an ongoing basis to further reduce our impact on the environment, conserve water and reduce waste. 

Environmental Laws and Regulations. We are also subject to environmental laws and regulations in the normal course of business. We have not made any material expenditures during the last three fiscal years in order to comply with environmental laws or regulations. Based on our experience to date, we believe that the future cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations (and liability for known environmental conditions) will not have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. However, we cannot predict what environmental laws or regulations will be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted, nor can we predict the amount of future expenditures that may be required in order to comply with such environmental laws or regulations or to respond to such environmental claims. 

Available Information 

Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we are required to file with or furnish to the SEC annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information. You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1.800.SEC.0330 for further information about the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We file electronically with the SEC. 

We make available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our web site, our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed with or furnished to the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished to the SEC. The address for the investor relations section of our web site is http://ir.bgfoods.com. 

The full text of the charters for each of the audit, compensation and nominating and governance committees of our board of directors as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available at the investor relations section of our web site, http://ir.bgfoods.com. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to all of our employees, officers and directors, including our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer and principal accounting officer. We intend to disclose any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our chief executive officer or chief financial officer and principal accounting officer in the investor relations section of our web site. 

The information contained on our web site is not part of, and is not incorporated in, this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

