 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

OVERVIEW 

Owens Corning was founded in 1938. Since then, the Company has continued to grow as a market-leading innovator of glass fiber technology. Owens Corning is a world leader in composite and building materials systems, delivering a broad range of high-quality products and services. Our products range from glass fiber used to reinforce composite materials for transportation, electronics, marine, infrastructure, wind-energy and other high-performance markets to insulation and roofing for residential, commercial and industrial applications. 

Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms &#8220;Owens Corning,&#8221; &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; in this report refer to Owens Corning and its subsidiaries. References to a particular year mean the Company&#8217;s year commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 of that year. 

SEGMENT OVERVIEW 

The Company has three reporting segments: Composites, which includes our Reinforcements and Downstream businesses; Insulation and Roofing. Our Composites, Insulation and Roofing reportable segments accounted for approximately 35% , 33% &#32;and 32% &#32;of our total reportable segment net sales, respectively, in 2015 . 

Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains information regarding net sales to external customers and total assets attributable to each of Owens Corning&#8217;s reportable segments and geographic regions, earnings before interest and taxes for each of Owens Corning&#8217;s reportable segments, and information concerning the dependence of our reportable segments on foreign operations, for each of the years 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . 

Composites 

Owens Corning glass fiber materials can be found in over 40,000 end-use applications within five primary markets: building and construction, transportation, consumer, industrial, and power and energy. Such end-use applications include pipe, roofing shingles, sporting goods, consumer electronics, telecommunications cables, boats, aviation, defense, automotive, industrial containers and wind-energy. Our products are manufactured and sold worldwide. We primarily sell our products directly to parts molders and fabricators. Within the building and construction market, our Composites segment sells glass fiber and/or glass mat directly to a small number of major shingle manufacturers, including our own Roofing segment. 

Our Composites segment is comprised of our Reinforcements and Downstream businesses. Within the Reinforcements business, the Company manufactures, fabricates and sells glass reinforcements in the form of fiber. Within the Downstream business, the Company manufactures and sells glass fiber products in the form of fabrics, non-wovens and other specialized products. 

Demand for composites is driven by general global economic activity and, more specifically, by the increasing replacement of traditional materials such as aluminum, wood and steel with composites that offer lighter weight, improved strength, lack of conductivity and corrosion resistance. We estimate that over the last 30 years, on average, annual global demand for composite materials grew at about 1.6 times global industrial production growth. 

We compete with composite manufacturers worldwide. According to various industry reports and Company estimates, our Composites segment is a world leader in the production of glass fiber reinforcement materials. Primary methods of competition include innovation, quality, customer service and global geographic reach. For our commodity products, price is also a method of competition. Significant competitors to the Composites segment include China Jushi Group Co., Ltd., Chongqing Polycom International Corporation Ltd ("CPIC"), Johns Manville, PPG Industries and Taishan Glass Fiber Co., Ltd. 

Our manufacturing operations in this segment are generally continuous in nature, and we warehouse much of our production prior to sale since we operate primarily with short delivery cycles. 

Insulation 

Our insulating products help customers conserve energy, provide improved acoustical performance and offer convenience of installation and use, making them a preferred insulating product for new home construction and remodeling. These products include thermal and acoustical batts, loosefill insulation, foam sheathing and accessories, and are sold under well-recognized brand names and trademarks such as Owens Corning PINK &#174; &#32;FIBERGLAS&#8482; Insulation. Our Insulation segment also manufactures and sells glass fiber pipe insulation, energy efficient flexible duct media, bonded and granulated mineral fiber 

- 2 - 

ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS (continued) 

insulation and foam insulation used in above- and below-grade construction applications. We sell our insulation products primarily to insulation installers, home centers, lumberyards, retailers and distributors in the United States and Canada. 

Demand for Owens Corning&#8217;s insulating products is driven by new residential construction, remodeling and repair activity, commercial and industrial construction activity, increasingly stringent building codes and the growing need for energy efficiency. Sales in this segment typically follow seasonal home improvement, remodeling and renovation and new construction industry patterns. Demand for new residential construction typically follows on a three-month lagged basis. The peak season for home construction and remodeling in our geographic markets generally corresponds with the second and third calendar quarters and, therefore, our sales levels are typically higher during the second half of the year. 

Our Insulation segment competes primarily with manufacturers in the United States. According to various industry reports and Company estimates, Owens Corning is North America&#8217;s largest producer of residential, commercial and industrial insulation, and the second-largest producer of extruded polystyrene foam insulation. Principal methods of competition include innovation and product design, service, location, quality, price and compatibility of systems solutions. Significant competitors in this segment include CertainTeed Corporation, Dow Chemical, Johns Manville, and Knauf Insulation. 

Our Insulation segment includes a diverse portfolio with a geographic mix of United States, Canada, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America, a market mix of residential, commercial, industrial and other markets, and a channel mix of retail, contractor and distribution. 

Working capital practices for this segment historically have followed a seasonal cycle. Typically, our insulation plants run continuously throughout the year. This production plan, along with the seasonal nature of the segment, generally results in higher finished goods inventory balances in the first half of the year. Since sales increase during the second half of the year, our accounts receivable balances are typically higher during this period. 

Roofing 

Our primary products in the Roofing segment are laminate and strip asphalt roofing shingles. Other products include oxidized asphalt and roofing accessories. We have been able to meet the growing demand for longer lasting, aesthetically attractive laminate products with modest capital investment. 

&#160; 

We sell shingles and roofing accessories primarily through home centers, lumberyards, retailers, distributors and contractors in the United States and sell other asphalt products internally to manufacture residential roofing products and externally to other roofing manufacturers. We also sell asphalt to roofing contractors and distributors for built-up roofing asphalt systems and to manufacturers in a variety of other industries, including automotive, chemical, rubber and construction. 

Demand for products in our Roofing segment is generally driven by both residential repair and remodeling activity and by new residential construction. Roofing damage from major storms can significantly increase demand in this segment. As a result, sales in this segment do not always follow seasonal home improvement, remodeling and new construction industry patterns as closely as our Insulation segment. 

Our Roofing segment competes primarily with manufacturers in the United States. According to various industry reports and Company estimates, Owens Corning&#8217;s Roofing segment is the second largest producer of asphalt roofing shingles in the United States. Principal methods of competition include innovation and product design, proximity to customers, quality and price. Significant competitors in the Roofing segment include CertainTeed Corporation, GAF and TAMKO. 

Our manufacturing operations are generally continuous in nature, and we warehouse much of our production prior to sale since we operate with relatively short delivery cycles. One of the raw materials important to this segment is sourced from a sole supplier. We have a long-term supply contract for this material, and have no reason to believe that any availability issues will exist. If this supply was to become unavailable, our production could be interrupted until such time as the supplies again became available or the Company reformulated its products. Additionally, the supply of asphalt, another significant raw material in this segment, has been constricted at times. Although this has not caused an interruption of our production in the past, prolonged asphalt shortages would restrict our ability to produce products in this segment. 

- 3 - 

ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS (continued) 

GENERAL 

Major Customers 

No one customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales for 2015 , 2014 or 2013. A significant portion of the net sales in our Insulation and Roofing segments are generated from large United States home improvement retailers. 

Intellectual Property 

The Company relies on a combination of intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property, proprietary technology and our brands. Through continuous and extensive use of the color PINK since 1956, Owens Corning became the first owner of a single color trademark registration. In addition to our Owens Corning and PINK brands, the Company has registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, and domain names. Additionally, the Company has filed U.S. and international patent applications, including numerous issued patents, covering certain of our proprietary technology resulting from research and development efforts. Over time, the Company has assembled a portfolio of intellectual property rights including patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, know-how and trade secrets covering our products, services and manufacturing processes. Our proprietary technology is not dependent on any single or group of intellectual property rights and the Company does not expect the expiration of existing intellectual property to have a material adverse affect on the business as a whole. The Company believes the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Although the Company protects its intellectual property and proprietary technology, any significant impairment of, or third-party claim against, our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. 

&#160; 

Backlog 

Our customer volume commitments are generally short-term, and the Company does not have a significant backlog of orders. 

Research and Development 

The Company&#8217;s research and development expense during each of the last three years is presented in the table below (in millions): 

Period 

Research and 

Development Expense 

Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2015 

$ 

Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2014 

$ 

Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2013 

$ 

Environmental Control 

Owens Corning has established policies and procedures to ensure that its operations are conducted in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations and that enable the Company to meet its high standards for corporate sustainability and environmental stewardship. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the presence of hazardous materials, pollution and protection of the environment, including emissions to air, discharges to water, management of hazardous materials, handling and disposal of solid wastes, and remediation of contaminated sites. All Company manufacturing facilities operate using an ISO 14001 or equivalent environmental management system. The Company&#8217;s 2020 Sustainability Goals require significant global reductions in energy use, water consumption, waste to landfill, emissions of greenhouse gases, fine particulate matter and toxic air emissions. The Company is dedicated to continuous improvement in our environmental, health and safety performance and to achieving its 2020 Environmental Sustainability goals. 

The Company has not experienced a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures or competitive position as a result of environmental control legislation and regulations. Operating costs associated with environmental compliance were approximately $31 million in 2015. The Company continues to invest in equipment and process modifications to remain in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide. 

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous national, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations. Regulatory activities of particular importance to our operations include those addressing air pollution, water pollution, waste disposal and chemical control. The Company expects passage and implementation of new laws and regulations specifically 

- 4 - 

ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS (continued) 

addressing climate change, toxic air emissions, ozone forming emissions and fine particulate matter during the next two to five years. New air pollution regulations could impact our ability to expand production or construct new facilities in certain regions of North America. However, based on information known to the Company, including the nature of our manufacturing operations and associated air emissions, at this time we do not expect any of these new laws, regulations or activities to have a material adverse effect on our results of current operations, financial condition or long-term liquidity. 

Owens Corning is involved in remedial response activities and is responsible for environmental remediation at a number of sites, including certain of its currently owned or formerly owned plants. These responsibilities arise under a number of laws, including, but not limited to, the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and similar state or local laws pertaining to the management and remediation of hazardous materials and petroleum. The Company has also been named a potentially responsible party under the United States Federal Superfund law, or state equivalents, at a number of disposal sites. The Company became involved in these sites as a result of government action or in connection with business acquisitions. At the end of 2015, the Company was involved with a total of 19 sites worldwide, including 6 Superfund sites and 13 owned or formerly owned sites. None of the liabilities for these sites are individually significant to the Company. 

Remediation activities generally involve a potential range of activities and costs related to soil and groundwater contamination. This can include pre-cleanup activities such as fact finding and investigation, risk assessment, feasibility studies, remedial action design and implementation (where actions may range from monitoring to removal of contaminants, to installation of longer-term remediation systems). A number of factors affect the cost of environmental remediation, including the number of parties involved in a particular site, the determination of the extent of contamination, the length of time the remediation may require, the complexity of environmental regulations, variability in clean-up standards, the need for legal action, and changes in remediation technology. Taking these factors into account, Owens Corning has predicted the costs of remediation reasonably estimated to be paid over a period of years. The Company accrues an amount on an undiscounted basis, consistent with the reasonable estimates of these costs when it is probable that a liability has been incurred. Actual cost may differ from these estimates for the reasons mentioned above. At December 31, 2015, the Company had an accrual totaling $3 million for these costs. Changes in required remediation procedures or timing of those procedures at existing legacy sites, or discovery of contamination at additional sites, could result in material increases to the Company&#8217;s environmental obligations. 

Number of Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , Owens Corning had approximately 15,000 employees. Approximately 7,000 of such employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes that its relations with employees are good. 

AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION 

Owens Corning makes available, free of charge, through its website the Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents are available through the Investor Relations page of the Company&#8217;s website at www.owenscorning.com. 

