 Item 1. Business. 

Our History and Business 

We formed TransAct Energy Corp. as a Nevada corporation on March 15, 2006. Although our business plan called for the securing and managing of any energy leasehold, the Company focused on securing producing and non-producing oil and gas leases in Alberta, Canada. On September 7, 2006 we acquired a one hundred percent (100%) interest in a Petroleum and Natural Gas Lease, from the province of Alberta, Canada for twelve thousand and fifty-one dollars ($12,051), the MedHat Project. We did not develop this resource. We looked to expand our holdings in Alberta through acquisitions and joint ventures for the following two years. We have since allowed this lease to lapse and moved away from this focus.

A distinct trend appeared in the energy sector supporting sustainable energies. About the same time in late 2008 the Company was introduced to Dr. Mory Gomshei one of the world&#146;s leading geothermal experts and two of his geothermal power (using superheated water from the earth to turn turbines) projects in British Columbia, Canada. The acquisition, resource evaluation, exploration process and administration for geothermal are very similar and in many jurisdictions come under the petroleum sector. We worked with independent companies Aqua Terra Power and Aqua Terra Geothermal through the balance of 2009 on the two geothermal power projects in British Columbia. Other than lending Aqua Terra funds no formal arrangement was entered into pending them securing drill permits on the two projects. These licenses lapsed under their original owners and were re-posted by the government for public tender; an Ontario corporation associated with Dr. Ghomshei acquired most of the original licences and have initiated drilling applications. We entered discussions with this entity in the latter half of 2011 to form a Farm-in relationship. We have put these discussions on hold pending the completion of our first operating plants in the Waste Optimization Division although we are maintaining dialogue with Dr. Gomshei as it relates to utilizing Geothermal in the plants themselves.

TransAct in mid-2009 started introducing the concept of geothermal power to markets in Western and South Asia with the plan to enter joint venture relationships to develop geothermal power projects in these areas. To enter these markets as a power producer the Company found it strategic to develop traditional carbon fuelled power projects in addition. After discussions with the Republic of Iraq regarding geothermal opportunities in Northern Iraq, the Company, together with Spectrum Energy Project Investments (a UAE power company), submitted applications to the Basra Investment Commission to develop/manage three natural gas power plants. These multi-billion dollar projects come with long-term power purchase agreements (PPA) and sovereign guarantees and our application through Spectrum was shortlisted. We were unsuccessful in completing our acquisition of 50% of Spectrum and the initial offering lapsed. 

On August 31, 2009, TransAct Energy completed and closed its initial public offering at twenty-five cents ($0.25) per share selling one million one hundred and two thousand shares (1,102,000) for a total capital raise of two-hundred and seventy-four thousand three hundred and ninety-eight dollars ($274,398 USD). The majority of these funds were placed with Aqua Terra Power as convertible notes to secure and develop the four (4) geothermal licenses in British Columbia, Canada; the balance was used to pay the costs of the offering and a small amount went to working capital. 

The Company was approved for listing on the OTCBB in December 2009 and received the trading symbol &#147;TEGY.&#148; 

Throughout 2010 we laid the ground work for large power projects in South Europe, Asia and Africa; smaller projects for solar, waste to energy and hydrogen fuel cells specifically in India. We worked to secure markets for geothermal, new solar photo-voltaic, waste to energy and hydrogen fuel cell generators. 

Joint development agreement negotiations took place in December 2010 clearing the way for Transact to enter into one major project in South East Asia in 2011. This project was stalled throughout 2011 because TransAct was unable to secure the funds it required to proceed.

The 2011 year was frustrated with the company&#146;s inability to collect raised or earned funds into the company&#146;s bank account. Thus projects, joint ventures and previous efforts were postponed or lost permanently. While we did maintain the company&#146;s trading status the year was taken up with collection efforts and supporting business relationships while in limbo. We did initiate discussions on new waste to energy technologies to leverage the work we had done previously in this sector.

The Company&#146;s 2012 efforts were focused on building out its Energy from Waste (&#147;EfW&#148;) division, TransAct Energy from Waste. We completed a Business Plan for this division and entered a Joint Development Agreement with the owners of a proprietary emissions free EfW technology that has been operating a 20 tonne per day plant for the past two years. We reconnected with clients in India and Brazil for future EfW opportunities. From the second quarter through to the end of 2012 we worked to raise the necessary funds to build a municipal scale plant (500 tonnes per day) in Scotland. 

2013 continued as a building year for both the company and its EfW division. We completed the acquisition of our EfW technology from the Scottish Inventor and brought him on as a long term member of our team. We successfully negotiated a relationship with the international firm Fichtner Consulting Engineers in order to complete the certification of our plants going forward. We identified suppliers of waste for the proposed United Kingdom plants, initiated the relationships for the uptake of the Natural Gas and Electricity in the United Kingdom and tentatively sourced the capital required for the first plant in the United Kingdom. Globally we negotiated the intent to build a plant in Mexico that includes the required equity and waste. In Brazil we initiated a relationship to create a green energy fund in order to grow both the market in Brazil and the other strategic areas of South America. Initial talks have taken place with potential development partners for a few of the major Brazil markets pending the success of the UK or Mexico plant. In the USA and China we are in talks with potential development partners that can deliver significant capital/waste and see our technology as the best solution going forward.

Throughout 2014 TransAct worked to finalize the engineering review and agreements necessary to develop the first Zero Emissions Waste Optimization Plants TM (Z.E.W.O.P. TM ) in Puebla, Mexico. The plant under design is capable of processing 1320 metric tons per day of Municipal Solid Waste (&#147;MSW&#148;) and is estimated to cost approximately three hundred million dollars. In late November Fichtner Consulting Engineers reported they believed the Z.E.W.O.P. TM was able to process the MSW 100% into useable products without emissions. The Fichtner report provided TransAct the opportunity to submit the Waste Supply Agreement to the Municipality of Puebla, prepare off-take agreements for interested buyers of the Z.E.W.O.P. TM products and formalize the share purchase agreement with the Puebla Waste Consortium (&#147;PWC&#148;). PWC intends on providing 30% of the capital required to build the Z.E.W.O.P. TM , while TransAct negotiates third party lenders for the remaining 70% of the cost through debt instruments. 

Because of the specialized nature of many of the Z.E.W.O.P. TM components we initiated some of the equipment procurement. As a result, we entered a design/supply agreement for our proprietary reactors with a specialized engineering firm in Australia.

The Company formed subsidiary corporations in Ireland and Mexico. In Ireland we established the wholly owned subsidiary &#147;TransAct Energy Global Ltd&#148;, this company will in turn wholly own each national subsidiary. The first national subsidiary of TransAct Global is &#147;TransAct Energy Mexico&#148; which will own a majority shareholding of each holding company that owns a Z.E.W.O.P. TM like &#147;Puebla ZEWOP 1&#148;. 

At the beginning of 2015 we focused on finalizing the sale of the anticipated Z.E.W.O.P. TM products. These efforts included getting signed letters of intent from qualified buyers and preparing formal legal agreements for the same. We now have letters of intent from multiple qualified buyers for all of the expected product and agreements ready to go subject to finalizing our feed-stock agreement (Waste Supply Agreement) for the first plant. 

In 2015 the Solo Investments of Brazil (&#147;Solo&#148;) funding of $3.6 Million, fell apart and we agreed to a one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) common stock purchase at $0.19 per share as settlement, receiving nine thousand nine hundred and forty dollars ($9,940) of these funds in the second quarter and an additional $2,485 in the third quarter. At the yearend we elected to keep these funds as damages and are now able to pursue further action under the original contract if practical. The $3.6 million is still required however we elected in 2015 to hold off on this raise until the Waste Supply Agreement is signed. 

The Company delivered the results of the Fichtner Report to the Puebla City Staff in December of 2014, after 6 months with no contract for the MSW feedstock in Puebla, Management set out in 2015 to secure an alternate source of MSW. After reviewing and discussing several alternative municipalities we are now negotiating the details of an MSW supply agreement. The agreement we had with the Puebla Waste Consortium is terminated however the sales efforts were all to National/International companies whose interest in our products will not change with a change in location. The one hundred-million-dollar equity for the plant in Puebla disappeared with the termination of the consortium contract. An alternative source of the plant equity is being sought during 2015 with a variety of investors coming forward during this period. As soon as we finalize the feed-stock and sales contracts we will seek to formalize the required equity. 

In summary 2015&#146;s efforts focused on completing the due-diligence for the Mexican candidate feed-stocks including matching equity partners and buyers of the resulting products. To that end we now have several feed-stock agreements to negotiate through to a final agreement or dismiss depending on the outcome of the negotiations. The potential equity partners have been identified subject to finalizing the feed-stock agreement and pre-sales of the future products. The clients that signed letters of intent for the products have also been briefed on the potential feed-stock cities to re-confirm their commitment. Every effort was made during the quarter to keep the candidate banks for debt financing informed of our progress and they appear to be continuing with their support. 

Business Strategy 

TransAct Energy Corp. has elected to focus entirely on the global development and dissemination of its zero emissions waste optimization plants (Z.E.W.O.P. TM). The Z.E.W.O.P. TM makes ecological, economical, political and social sense. Becoming an engine that supports the circular economy in any community it enters sustainably. We originally elected to start in Europe the United Kingdom specifically because the legislation supporting the technology already existed. However, at the point we abandoned this strategy we did not have the funds or sales firmly in place in the U.K. When the original Mexican opportunity was presented it came with feed-stock, equity, permits and permissions; two years later we know that is not the case. 

Our strategy going forward is too exploit the work and relationships that have been established in Mexico. Despite the delays and setbacks of Puebla our efforts will continue throughout 2016 to finalize the Waste Supply Agreement in a large Mexican market, signing off on 75-80% of our product sales under off-take agreements and initiating the engineering review of our selected site for the plant in Mexico. These agreements completed should lead to the financing commitment we have been seeking for the $200 Million (+/-) debt portion of the first Z.E.W.O.P. TM . In 2016 we should be in a position to complete the Z.E.W.O.P. TM building/plant design and permit/permission application process. Simultaneously we intend to initiate an EPC contract and its related subcontracts. TransAct hopes to establish manufacturing of our proprietary reactors in Mexico in order to supply the demand for both Mexico and the USA. Subject to our funding draw down schedule and the permit/permission process we intend on constructing the Z.E.W.O.P. TM buildings in 2016. Provided all equipment manufacturers can supply their components we intend on assembling the plant through the balance of 2016 and initiating commissioning the beginning of 2017. 

Once TransAct is confident the development of the first Z.E.W.O.P. TM is well underway it will proceed with the scheduling and planning of additional plants. This will include our first European Z.E.W.O.P. TM. 

South America, including Brazil and now Argentina has generated multiple opportunities for Z.E.W.O.P. TM and the capital required developing those opportunities. We intend on continuing to work these opportunities in order to secure a foothold in these markets. 

Z.E.W.O.P. TM is our opportunity to demonstrate to Mexico and the World a municipal scale solution to managing waste without emissions and land filling. Although we have been approached to build in the other North American cities we feel the market is best approached when the first Z.E.W.O.P. TM is fully operational in order to garner government agency support. This will insure a smoother entry into the other North American markets, once we break ground we will make sure major municipalities throughout the US and Canada are aware of our process so we get on the technology review lists.

Besides finding capital for individual projects, until such time as the first revenues from operations come in, our corporate operations will continue to be funded by raising money through private placements or public offerings. We anticipate bringing on an expanded management team to oversee our operational growth throughout this year and plan on raising additional capital as required. The first $3.6 Million of this budgeted capital should come in after the signing of the Waste Supply Agreement in 2016.

Markets and Customers 

The markets for &#147;waste optimization&#148;, the complete processing of waste into useable products/commodities without emissions or land-filling are global. Countries around the world are adopting standards that will reduce green house gas emissions and are promoting better use of resources, ultimately seeking freedom from foreign petroleum. The TransAct Z.E.W.O.P. TM provides these markets with an emissions free solution utilizing their waste and turning it into products, including fuels that can be used in these domestic markets.

We currently have discussions and or contract negotiations with entities in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Mexico and USA. Europe is the most advanced market with legislation in place targeting zero landfills, zero emissions within a few short years. The current Z.E.W.O.P. TM design for mass production has a plant size processing capacity of approximately 1320 metric tonnes per day of raw municipal solid waste (based on 2 Kgs per day per person, approximately 660,000 people in North America slightly less in Europe). 

Our target service customers are corporations or municipalities with municipal solid waste, plastic, tires or medical waste as these are the most profitable waste streams. However, we can process any carbon based waste stream including sewage and agricultural. 

Our target Z.E.W.O.P. TM product customers are current manufacturers of fuels for airlines, shipping companies, bus companies, trucking companies or fuel retailers requiring direct blend green fuels to meet legislated targets. The EU 20/20 legislation started on January 1 st of 2015 it requires a 20% green fuel blend by 2020. It creates customers needing a green fuel that can blend with existing refined fuels. Any airplane or ship landing in the EU will need 15% of its fuel to be green starting this year we anticipate being able to use our fuels going forward in this capacity upon EU certification.

Our customers include friction product manufacturers (brake pads, clutch plates, sanding disks) and wood product manufacturers (plywood, particle board, OSB etc) that utilize phenol resins in their manufacturing process. We target manufacturers of biodegradable plastics and pharmaceuticals for our Levoglucosan. Tire and rubber manufacturers, lithographers and printers requiring high quality carbon black are customers. Waxes for the cosmetic industry, paraffin waxes for a variety of other uses including candles, along with high grade lubricating oils are Z.E.W.O.P. TM products. We produce fertilizers for the agricultural industry, a brick mix for the construction industry, a variety of reclaimed metals, and purified (distilled) water. Acetic acid and furfural are manufactured for industrial chemical manufacturers. We have a diverse mix of products and potential customers. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, the Company has a combined CEO/CFO and a SVP Technology under contract with everyone else required by the company being fulfilled by consultants on a demand basis. Going forward we have pending agreements for a COO, SVP Business Development, VP Operations South America, VP Operations Mexico &#38; Central America, VP Operations Europe and a VP Operations USA. 

As the company ramps up the first Z.E.W.O.P. TM in Mexico it anticipates bringing on 75 employees in this subsidiary. 

The Company did not experience any labour disputes or labour stoppages during the current fiscal year.

Principal Products 

The Company&#146;s principal products are carbon black, phenol resins and Levoglucosan making up approximately 70% of our proposed revenue. Waxes account for another 15% while fuels represent 6%. 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

The raw material for the Z.E.W.O.P. TM is municipal solid waste (MSW) better known as trash or garbage. Garbage is readily available in every municipality on the planet with only a modest percentage committed to reprocessing, the majority is land-filled or incinerated. Alternatives to MSW include medical waste, agricultural waste, and carbon based industrial waste.

Most of the MSW is already under some form of long term contract awarded by the municipalities to a private company. It is the private companies that provide a barrier to the raw material and must be dealt with commercially to secure the waste from them until their contract expires. 

Seasonality of Business 

Waste from human activities is generated 365 days a year with slight seasonal variations occurring in MSW. Our facilities are designed to run every day of the year. 

Industry Practices/Needs for Working Capital 

The Company is heavily involved in development operations; therefore high levels of working capital will be committed, either directly or indirectly to the construction efforts. After a Z.E.W.O.P. TM becomes commercially operational, the needs of working capital are expected to be low. The Company is expecting to be significantly involved in development activities for the next 10 to 20 years.

Dependence on Few Customers 

The waste being supplied to each Z.E.W.O.P. TM comes from hundreds of thousands of residence of a city; however, the contract is awarded by one customer, the city in question. Heavy dependency on one customer for the feedstock is mitigated by the form of agreement, long-term and guaranteed provided we stay operational. 

Ultimately, the market for our products is vast; however, the numbers of entities that can physically, logistically and economically purchase the commodity in large quantities in our area of operations are limited. The Company&#146;s primary revenues should originate from carbon black (30 %+) and phenol resin (27 %+) sales. Currently, the Company has interest in these products and others from three multi-national corporations. Again, the only mitigation from the risk of only a few customers is their credit-worthiness, a guaranteed long term contract, with no out, unless we do not perform. 

We do have the alternative of building up a multitude of small order customers over time. 

Competitive Conditions 

The interest in the waste optimization sector has continued to grow as have the amounts of garbage. Every government on the planet is faced with these growing amounts of garbage and the mandate to use it as a resource rather than bury or burn it. The demand for sustainable energy continues to increase almost everywhere on the planet at the same time. Climate changes affect the demand for heating and cooling and the lack of rain in certain areas impacts on the ability to produce hydro-electricity. Political instability or the threat there of, in oil producing regions sends countries that have petroleum based economies scrambling for alternatives. Economic instability impacts on many countries abilities to import energy causing them to look within their own borders for energy that provides autonomy. Finally, the pressure is on all nations to look at and change the environmental impact of their waste. 

Each product we produce is made by reprocessing waste that we are paid to receive, making the resulting product &#147;green&#148; and cheaper. Our production process has no emissions or environmental impact compared to competitive products that come from crude oil and natural gas. Because our raw material is garbage we are not subjected to market fluctuations and can consistently maintain our cost of goods compared to our competitors. The finished products are produced at much lower costs than our competitors giving us a natural advantage going forward. 

Any technology that can produce clean energy from waste in a cost effective manner has a competitive advantage in the complex matrix of sustainable energy production. There have been no emissions free and cost effective energy from waste technologies to handle the ever growing waste. So governments have settled for incineration with scrubbers that remove the pollutants to established levels. The new emission targets being established for waste going forward, limits the competition. TransAct&#146;s Z.E.W.O.P. TM at present will be the only technology capable of meeting the future conditions of competition in this arena.

Availability of resources, upfront capital and customers willing to pay for the resulting products, determine the generation resource. In markets where they have resources but not expertise or upfront capital the field of competition opens up for those able to build, own, and operate the facility at a profit over the long-term. 

The Company believes that the combination of the technologies emissions free status, low operating costs, ability to process all waste streams into useable products with full carbon capture and a low &#34;full life&#34; cost will allow it to successfully compete for long-term waste processing and green product supply agreements globally.

Factors that can influence the overall market for our products include some of the following:

&#183;

number of market participants buying and selling green products including fuels;

&#183;

environmental regulations that impact us and our competitors;

&#183;

availability of production tax credits and other benefits allowed by tax law;

&#183;

relative ease or difficulty of developing and constructing new facilities; and

&#183;

credit worthiness and risk associated with buyers.

Environmental Compliance 

The TransAct Z.E.W.O.P. TM already meets the European Union Environmental Protection Agency emission free standards. The plants do not incinerate so there are no flue gases and no ash, all waste delivered to the plant is converted to useable products. 

The incoming waste is maintained in-doors under cover, at three-day processing levels, to avoid any possible nuisance. 

The storage systems for fuels produced on site pending shipment meet or exceed regional standards for safety and environmental impact. 

All known environmental issues in Z.E.W.O.P. TM have been identified and solutions obtained that will mitigate these issues beyond established compliance.

Available Information 

We will be making available in the near term, through our Internet website at http://www.transactenergycorp.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information on our website is not incorporated into this report and is not a part of this report.

All material press releases are disseminated through a North America wide news wire service and published on our website and twitter feed ( transactenergycorp @transactenergyc).

Governmental Regulation 

Although we intend to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we are in compliance or that we will be able to comply with all future laws and regulations. Additional national or regional legislation, or changes in regulatory implementation, may limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or seizures, could be imposed on us. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

The business of industrial plant development and operation is subject to substantial regulation under governmental laws relating to the development, upgrading, marketing, pricing, taxation, and distribution of our products and other matters. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing development and operations of industrial plants could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that income tax laws, royalty regulations and government incentive programs related to our industry generally, will not be changed in a manner which may adversely affect our progress and cause delays, inability to develop or abandonment of these interests.

Permits, leases, licenses, and approvals are required from a variety of regulatory authorities at various stages of development and operation of industrial projects. There can be no assurance that the various government permits, leases, licenses and approvals sought will be granted in respect of our activities or, if granted, will not be cancelled or will be renewed upon expiry. There is no assurance that such permits, leases, licenses, and approvals will not contain terms and provisions which may adversely affect our development and operating activities. 

The development and operations of our proposed projects are or will be subject to stringent federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to improving or maintaining environmental quality. Environmental laws often require parties to pay for remedial action or to pay damages regardless of fault. Environmental laws also often impose liability with respect to divested or terminated operations, even if the operations were terminated or divested many years ago.

The development activities and operating programs on our proposed and future projects are or will be subject to extensive laws and regulations governing, development, production, imports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, plant safety, toxic substances and other matters. Power development and operations are also subject to risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and disposal of waste products. Compliance with these laws and regulations will impose substantial costs on us and will subject us to significant potential liabilities. 

Our business is subject to various federal, provincial, state and local laws and governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. TransAct Energy Corp. in each jurisdiction is subject to regulation in respect of the production, sale and distribution of energy in the form of fuel or electricity. 

TransAct will be required to obtain various government approvals for construction of future facilities. 

For project development TransAct will hire consulting and engineering services for site development, design, air quality, cooling water reuse, permitting, environmental engineering and regulatory compliance.

Environmental Credits 

As a future &#147;green&#148; product producer, environmental-related credits, such as renewable energy credits or carbon credits may become available for sale to power companies (to allow them to meet their &#147;green&#148; power requirements) or to businesses which produce carbon based pollution. If available, these credits will belong exclusively to us or our joint venture, and may provide an additional source of revenue.

