 Item 1. Business

General

We are a U.S. holding company with no material assets other than the ownership interests of our foreign subsidiaries that design, manufacture and sell heat pumps in the People&#8217;s Republic of China (&#8220;PRC&#8221;) through our remaining subsidiaries. Our current HP subsidiaries design and build specific to customer specifications and particular operating conditions, known for their high quality and efficiency. Our HP operating segment subsidiaries produce heat pumps in sizes that have applications primarily in industrial.

Our History

We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on August 4, 2006, under the name Pacific Goldrim Resources, Inc., as an exploration stage corporation with minimal operations, to engage in the exploration for silver, lead and zinc. On April 14, 2008, we changed our name to SmartHeat Inc. and entered into a Share Exchange Agreement (the &#8220;Share Exchange Agreement&#8221;), to acquire Shenyang Taiyu Machinery &#38; Electronic Equipment Co., Ltd., subsequently renamed SmartHeat Taiyu (Shenyang) Energy Technology Co., Ltd. (&#8220;Taiyu&#8221;), a privately held Sino-foreign joint venture company formed under the laws of the PRC on July 24, 2002, and engaged in the design, manufacture, sale and service of PHE products in China. The Share Exchange Agreement was entered into by SmartHeat, Taiyu and the shareholders of Taiyu. At the closing of the Share Exchange Agreement, all of the equitable and legal rights, title and interests in and to Taiyu&#8217;s share capital of Yuan 25,000,000 were exchanged for 1,850,000 shares of SmartHeat common stock (the &#8220;Share Exchange&#8221;). We received PRC government approval on May 28, 2008, of our subscription for 71.6% of the registered capital of Taiyu, and approval on June 3, 2009, of the transfer of the remaining 28.4% ownership of Taiyu from the original joint venture shareholders who had received shares of our common stock in the Share Exchange. As a result of the Share Exchange and subsequent transactions contemplated by the Share Exchange Agreement, and receipt of the above PRC government approvals, Taiyu became our wholly foreign-owned enterprise, or WFOE.

Prior to our acquisition of Taiyu, we had no interest in any property, but had the right to conduct exploration activities on 13 mineral title cells covering 27,027 hectares (66,785 acres) in the Slocan Mining Division of southeastern British Columbia, Canada. In connection with the acquisition of Taiyu, we transferred all of our pre-closing assets and liabilities (other than the obligation to pay a $10,000 fee to our audit firm) to a wholly owned subsidiary, PGR Holdings, Inc., a Nevada corporation (&#8220;SplitCo&#8221;), under the terms of an Agreement of Conveyance, Transfer and Assignment of Assets and Assumption of Obligations dated April 14, 2008. We sold all of the outstanding capital stock of SplitCo to Jason Schlombs, our former director and officer and one of our major shareholders, pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement dated April 14, 2008, in exchange for the return of his 250,000 shares of our common stock to us for cancellation.

&#160;

As an expansion of our business following our acquisition of Taiyu, we acquired and established strategic subsidiaries in China and Germany. On September 25, 2008, we acquired SanDeKe Co., Ltd., or SanDeKe, a Shanghai-based manufacturer of PHEs. On June 16, 2009, we completed an asset purchase transaction with Siping Beifang Heat Exchanger Manufacture Co., Ltd., or Siping Beifang, to set up a new manufacturing facility under our newly incorporated subsidiary, SmartHeat Siping Beifang Energy Technology Co., Ltd., or SmartHeat Siping. On August 14, 2009, we formed Beijing SmartHeat Jinhui Energy Technology Co., Ltd., or Jinhui, a joint venture in Beijing of which we own 52%, to provide consulting services and expand our sales of PHEs into new industries and regions of China. On April 7, 2010, we formed SmartHeat (China) Investment Co., Ltd., or SmartHeat Investment, as an investment holding company in Shenyang for our investment in and establishment of new companies and businesses in China. On April 12, 2010, SmartHeat Investment formed SmartHeat (Shenyang) Energy Equipment Co., Ltd., or SmartHeat Energy, as its wholly owned subsidiary for the research, development, manufacturing and sales of energy products. On May 6, 2010, we formed SmartHeat (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd., or SmartHeat Trading, through a nominee, Cleantech Holdings Inc., a British Virgin Islands company, or Cleantech Holdings, to market and expand sales of our branded products in China. Effective as of November 9, 2011, we terminated the nominee-owner relationship and acquired direct control over SmartHeat Trading. On December 2, 2010, we formed Hohhot Ruicheng Technology Co., Ltd., or Ruicheng, a joint venture in Hohhot City, China, for the design and manufacture of heat meters, of which we acquired 51% of the equity interest on January 7, 2011. On March 1, 2011, we entered into a purchase agreement to acquire 95% of the equity interests in Shenyang Bingchuan Refrigerating Machine Limited Company, a Shenyang-based state-owned heat pump manufacturer and designer subsequently renamed SmartHeat (Shenyang) Heat Pump Technology Co., Ltd., or SmartHeat Pump. On November 1, 2011, we increased the registered capital of SmartHeat Pump and thereby increased our ownership percentage to 98.8%. On March 3, 2011, we completed the acquisition of Gustrower Warmepumpen GmbH, subsequently renamed SmartHeat Deutschland GmbH, or SmartHeat Germany, a designer and manufacturer of high efficiency heat pumps in Germany, to extend our clean technology heating solutions into the rapidly growing heat pump markets in Europe and China. We subsequently transferred ownership of SmartHeat Germany to SmartHeat Pump. On April 10, 2012, we established a new joint venture named Urumchi XinRui Technology Limited Liability Company (&#8220;XinRui&#8221;), of which we own 46%.

On December 30, 2013, SmartHeat closed a transaction contemplated by an Equity Interest Purchase Agreement dated October 10, 2013, whereby the buyers purchased 40% of the equity interests in Taiyu, SmartHeat Siping, SmartHeat Energy, Ruicheng and XinRui. The purchase price was RMB 5,000,000.

On November 28, 2014, Heat PHE entered into an Amended Equity Interest Purchase Agreement. Under the terms of the Amended EIPA Buyers agreed to purchase the remaining 60% of Target Companies (constituting all of our remaining equity interests in the companies being sold). The purchase price for the remaining 60% consists of: (i) consideration of RMB 8,500,000 and (ii) the forgiveness of all net indebtedness owing to the companies being sold by SmartHeat and each of its other subsidiaries which was $8.79 million as of December 31, 2014.

The effectiveness of the transaction was subject to the following conditions: (i) approval of its shareholders and (ii) receipt by the Board of Directors (&#8220;BOD&#8221; or the &#8220;Board&#8221;) of the Company of an opinion that the purchase and sale transaction was fair to the shareholders of SmartHeat from a financial point of view. The parties executed a mutual release to be delivered at the closing which provided, in part, for the target companies to forgive all net indebtedness of $11.75 million from SmartHeat and all of its other subsidiaries. In the event that the conditions were not met prior to December 31, 2014, the consideration and all documents were to be deposited into escrow and released when the conditions were satisfied; provided that if the conditions were not satisfied on or before March 31, 2015, either party was able to terminate the Amended EIPA and the funds and documents were to be returned to the depositing party. The termination deadline of the Amended EIPA was extended to May 15, 2015.

On May 11, 2015, the Company&#8217;s stockholders approved the sale of all of the remaining interests, constituting 100% of its ownership interests, (the &#8220;Stock Sale&#8221;) of certain subsidiaries of the Company as described above, all of the conditions precedents to the Stock Sale were satisfied. The parties executed a mutual release which became effective and provided, in part, that the Target Companies forgave all net indebtedness from SmartHeat and all of its other subsidiaries owed to the Target Companies. The consideration and all documents relating to the transaction were released from escrow upon the satisfaction of the foregoing conditions.

On January 20, 2016, the Company entered a Share Purchase Agreement with a series of buyers to sell 85% of the equity shares of SmartHeat Deutschland GmbH (&#8220;SmartHeat Germany&#8221;) for Euro 170,000 ($185,400). SmartHeat Germany was treated as a discontinued operations in the Company&#8217;s consolidated results of operations.

Our Business Segments

On August 23, 2013, the Company formed two new wholly-owned subsidiaries in the state of Nevada, Heat HP, Inc.(&#8220;Heat HP&#8221;) and Heat PHE, Inc. (&#8220;Heat PHE&#8221;), in order to reorganize the Company&#8217;s ownership structure over its subsidiaries. On August 23, 2013, the Company entered into an assignment agreement (&#8220;Assignment Agreement&#8221;) with each of Heat HP and Heat PHE which effected the reorganization. The reorganization was performed so the Company&#8217;s subsidiaries would be organized along their respective operating segments with Heat HP holding those subsidiaries that operated in the heat pumps and related products segment and Heat PHE holding those subsidiaries that operated in the plate heating equipment, meters and related products segment. The Company initially presented its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2013, in accordance with these operating segments and has continued segment reporting since that time.

Under the Assignment Agreement with Heat HP, the Company agreed to transfer, and in the case of indirectly owned subsidiaries, caused to be transferred, to Heat HP the following subsidiaries of the Company:

Heat HP

SmartHeat (China) Investment Co., Ltd.

SmartHeat (Shenyang) Heat Pump Technology Co., Ltd.

SmartHeat Deutschland GmbH

SmartHeat (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd.

Beijing SmartHeat Jinhui Energy Technology Co., Ltd.

Under the Assignment Agreement with Heat PHE, the Company agreed to transfer, and in the case of indirectly owned subsidiaries, caused to be transferred, to Heat PHE the following subsidiaries of the Company:

Heat PHE

SmartHeat Taiyu (Shenyang) Energy Technology Co., Ltd.

SanDeKe Co., Ltd.

SmartHeat (Shenyang) Energy Equipment Co., Ltd.

SmartHeat Siping Beifang Energy Technology Co., Ltd.

Hohhot Ruicheng Technology Co., Ltd.

&#160;

For financial information regarding our business segments, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.

&#160;

Sale of Equity Interests

On December 30, 2013, the Company sold 40% of the Company&#8217;s equity interests in SmartHeat Taiyu (Shenyang) Energy; SmartHeat Siping Beifang Energy Technology Co., Ltd.; SmartHeat (Shenyang) Energy Equipment Co. Ltd.; Hohot Ruicheng Technology Co., Ltd.; and Urumchi XinRui Technology Limited Liability Company (collectively, the &#8220;Target Companies&#8221;). The purchase price was RMB 5,000,000. On November 28, 2014, Heat PHE entered into an Amended Equity Interest Purchase Agreement. Under the terms of the Amended EIPA Buyers agreed to purchase the remaining 60% of Target Companies (constituting all of our remaining equity interests in the companies being sold). The purchase price for the remaining 60% consists of: (i) consideration of RMB 8,500,000 and (ii) the forgiveness of all net indebtedness owing to the companies being sold by SmartHeat and each of its other subsidiaries which was $8.79 million as of December 31, 2014.

The effectiveness of the transaction was subject to the following conditions: (i) approval of its stockholders and (ii) receipt by the Board of Directors of the Company of an opinion that the sale was fair to the stockholders of SmartHeat from a financial point of view. The parties executed a mutual release, effective as of the Closing, which will provided, in part, for the companies being sold to forgive all net indebtedness from SmartHeat and all of its other subsidiaries owing to such companies as of the effective date of the Closing. On December 24, 2014, the consideration and all documents were deposited into escrow and were released upon satisfaction of the conditions. The termination deadline for the Amended EIPA was extended to May 15, 2015. 

&#160;

On May 11, 2015, the Company&#8217;s stockholders approved the sale of all of the remaining interests, constituting 100% of its ownership interests, (the &#8220;Stock Sale&#8221;), all of the conditions precedents to the Stock Sale were satisfied. The parties executed a mutual release which became effective and provided, in part, that the Target Companies forgave all net indebtedness from SmartHeat and all of its other subsidiaries owed to the Target Companies. The consideration and all documents relating to the transaction were released from escrow upon the satisfaction of the foregoing conditions.

The buyers consisted of 25 natural PRC citizens, including Wen Sha, Jun Wang and Xudong Wang, managers of the Company&#8217;s subsidiaries engaged in the PHE segment of its business, and Huajuan Ai and Yingkai Wang, the Company&#8217;s Corporate Secretary and Acting Chief Accountant, respectively. Huajuan Ai, Wen Sha, Jun Wang and Xudong Wang are also principals in Northtech Holdings Inc., the company that provided a credit line of $2.5 million to the Company.

&#160;

Our Corporate Structure

Our corporate structure as of the date of this report is set forth in the following diagram. SanDeKe is a WFOE authorized by its business license to operate our businesses in China. SmartHeat Deutschland GmbH was wholly owned by Heat HP Inc. but divested on January 20, 2016. 

(1) We hold through 98.8% of the equity interest in SmartHeat Pump, with the remaining 1.2% of the equity interest held by Shenyang Economic and Technological Development Zone State-owned Assets Management Co., Ltd.

(2) We control 52% of Jinhui pursuant to a joint venture agreement entered into with the minority owner, Beijing Jun Tai Heng Rui Investment Consultancy Co. Ltd.

&#160;

Our Offices

Our principal offices are located at c/o A-1, 10, Street 7, Shenyang Economic and Technological Development Zone, Shenyang, China 110141. Our telephone number is +86 (24) 2519-7699. Our website is www.smartheatinc.com. Copies of our annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Furthermore, a copy of this Annual Report is located at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We make available free of charge on our website our Code of Conduct and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.

Recent Developments

We have lost our lease at the manufacturing facility for our heat pumps in China. We are in the process of looking for a new location. Until we locate a new location we will suspend the production of our heat pumps. We are in the process of reducing production staff but expect to retain personnel to maintain existing customers.

Products

Our subsidiaries design, manufacture, sell and service heat pumps. Its products are an increasingly important element in providing a solution to energy consumption and air pollution problems in China. Their products are used in the industrial, residential and commercial markets to make energy use more efficient and to reduce pollution by reducing the need for coal-fired boilers.

&#160;

Heat pump systems provide heating, cooling and hot water for residential apartments and commercial buildings and process heat for industrial applications by moving heat between two locations using small amounts of electricity. In a typical system, heat pumps draw heat from outside air or ground to warm the inside of a home or office building. Many heat pumps have reversible cycles, too, using the same system to cool the inside of a building by transferring heat outside. Heat pumps replace conventional energy sources such as oil, gas and coal with the energy stored in water, soil and air or heat recovered from wastewater or exhaust air. By transferring heat between locations, rather than burning fuel to create a heat source, heat pumps are extremely efficient energy transfer systems. Commercial users install heat pump systems not only to reduce energy consumption but also carbon dioxide, or CO2, emissions, a trend that is encouraged by policymakers in China. The advantages of heat pumps in terms of energy efficiency, operating cost, CO2 emission reduction and their ability to provide heating and cooling in one machine has made them the leading energy source for new buildings in Germany and Austria, and has replaced conventional fossil fuel based technology in these countries to a large degree.

Heat Pump

&#160;

Our subsidiaries produce heat pumps in Shenyang China. Our operations in China generally operate on an 8-hour shift, with the exception of the high season from May to November, during which we may operate for 11-12 hours per day. Production is driven by orders from clients and typically is scheduled on a just-in-time delivery basis. At this time we are looking for new production facilities.

Our subsidiaries regularly appear at industry trade shows, attending HVAC trade fairs in Shanghai and environmental protection forums in China. They also maintain positive relationships with local utilities, oil refiners, steel producers and food and beverage companies. Marketing costs generally are funded through working capital and expensed as incurred.

Components generally include pumps, valves, pipes and electronic meters purchased from a number of premium international and domestic suppliers who have been certified to meet our quality specifications. Representative component suppliers include Siemens, Wilo A.G. and Honeywell, as well as others. Our subsidiaries typically maintain a relatively small inventory of component parts for resale.

Our subsidiaries sell both directly through their sales force and through a network of national distributors located throughout China. All of their work is performed based on written contracts with customers and there are no oral contracts. Their customer base consists primarily of state-owned enterprises diversified across a number of end markets in China.

We own no patents.

Our subsidiaries compete principally in the domestic China market. We believe their competitive advantages lie in superior engineering and design skills, the longevity and efficiency of the components they use, their ability to vertically integrate their manufacturing process, their just-in-time delivery and their reliable after-sales provided through local service centers.

We expanded into the heat pump market in China and Europe with our acquisitions of SmartHeat Pump and SmartHeat Germany in 2011. The markets for heat pumps in these markets are highly fragmented. Our subsidiaries focus on the middle high-end market for heat pumps in China, competing on price and customization capabilities with foreign and joint venture producers.

Our subsidiaries typically experience stronger sales in the third and fourth calendar quarters, which is the start of fall and winter in China. Our quarterly revenues may fluctuate significantly due to the seasonal nature of central heating services in China, where the equipment used in residential buildings must be delivered and installed prior to the beginning of the heating season in late fall.

&#160;

Our business and company registrations are in compliance in all material respects with the laws and regulations of their respective governing municipal and provincial authorities. Our subsidiaries and manufacturing facilities in China are subject to the national and local laws of the PRC. Other than as described following, our subsidiaries are not subject to any other government regulations that would require them to obtain a special license or approval from the PRC government to operate their business or manufacturing facilities in China.

&#160;

Our subsidiaries&#8217; are not subject to material regulation by the PRC government or other national agencies. They have obtained PRC National Safety Certification for PHE products and are ISO 9001 quality management certified, which together recognizes their commitment to safety and quality in the manufacturing processes. The European Commission has promulgated standards, such as EN 378 Safety and Environmental Requirements, for heat pumps and products sold in the European Union must carry CE marking, indicating conformity with such requirements. We believe that heat pumps sold in Europe comply with all currently applicable standards.

Our subsidiaries&#8217; manufacturing facilities in China are subject to the national environmental regulations of the PRC as well as local laws regarding pollutant discharge, air, water and noise pollution, including the Environmental Protection Law of the PRC, the Environmental Impact Appraisal Law of the PRC, the Law of the PRC on the Prevention and Control of Water Pollution, the Law of the PRC on Prevention and Control of Environmental Pollution Caused by Solid Waste, the Law of the PRC on Prevention and Control of Air Pollution and the Law of the PRC on Prevention and Control of Environmental Noise Pollution. The Environmental Protection Law of the PRC sets out the legal framework for environmental protection in the PRC. The Ministry of Environmental Protection of the PRC, or the MEP, is primarily responsible for the supervision and administration of environmental protection work nationwide and formulating national waste discharge limits and standards. Local environmental protection authorities at the county level and above are responsible for environmental protection in their jurisdictions. Companies that discharge contaminants must report and register with the MEP or the relevant local environmental protection authorities. Companies discharging contaminants in excess of the discharge limits prescribed by the central or local authorities must pay discharge fees for the excess in accordance with applicable regulations and are also responsible for the treatment of the excessive discharge. Companies that directly or indirectly discharge industrial wastewater into the water or are required by law to obtain the pollutant discharge permit before discharging wastewater or sewage shall also obtain the pollutant discharge permit.

Our subsidiaries in China have received PRC government certification of their operating facilities in China indicating that their businesses are in material compliance with the relevant PRC environmental laws and regulations. Our manufacturing subsidiaries are ISO 9001 quality management and ISO 14001 environmental management systems certified, which together recognize their development and implementation of procedures that demonstrate an ability to consistently manufacture products meeting customer specifications, environmental standards and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. Our subsidiaries&#8217; production processes mainly generate noise, wastewater and solid wastes. They currently do not incur any material costs in connection with their compliance with the applicable PRC environmental laws as our manufacturing processes generate minimal discharge. Furthermore, the cost of maintaining compliance has not, and we believe, in the future, will not, have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.

&#160;

The Labor Contract Law of the PRC, effective on January 1, 2008, governs the establishment of employment relationships between employers and employees, and the conclusion, performance, termination of and the amendment to employment contracts. To establish an employment relationship, a written employment contract must be signed by the employer and employee. In the event that no written employment contract was signed at the time of establishment of an employment relationship, a written employment contract must be signed within one month after the date on which the employer first engaged the employee. The Labor Contract Law also imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly affects the cost of an employer&#8217;s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires that certain terminations be based upon seniority and not merit. We believe that our subsidiaries in the PRC are in material compliance with the requirements of this law.

&#160;

On June 29, 2002, the Work Safety Law of the PRC was adopted by the Standing Committee of the 9th National People&#8217;s Congress and came into effect on November 1, 2002, as amended on August 27, 2009. The Work Safety Law provides general work safety requirements for entities engaging in manufacturing and business activities within the PRC. We believe our PRC subsidiaries are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations related to work safety.

The principal regulations governing foreign currency exchange in China are the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations promulgated by the State Council, as amended on August 5, 2008, or the Foreign Exchange Regulations. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulations, the RMB, the national currency of the PRC, is freely convertible for current account items, including the distribution of dividends, interest payments, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for capital account items, such as direct investments, loans, repatriation of investments and investments in securities outside of China, unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, is obtained and prior registration with the SAFE is made.

On October 21, 2005, the SAFE issued Circular 75, the Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents&#8217; Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, which became effective as of November 1, 2005. Please refer to &#8220;Risk Factors &#8211; Risks Related to Business in China &#8211; PRC regulations relating to the registration requirements for PRC resident shareholders owning shares in offshore companies may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire companies in China or to inject capital into our operating subsidiaries in China, limit our subsidiaries&#8217; ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business&#8221; for a discussion of Circular 75.

On August 29, 2008, the SAFE promulgated Circular 142, the Notice on Perfecting Practices Concerning Foreign Exchange Settlement Regarding the Capital Contribution by Foreign-invested Enterprises, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. Please refer to &#8220;Risk Factors &#8211; Risks Related to Business in China &#8211; Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively&#8221; for a discussion of Circular 142.

Our ability to pay dividends is affected by the complex currency and capital transfer regulations in China that restrict the payment of dividends to us by our PRC subsidiaries. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Our PRC subsidiaries also are required to set aside at least 10% of net income after taxes based on PRC accounting standards each year to statutory surplus reserves until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Our PRC subsidiaries also may allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to their staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. If any of our subsidiaries incur debt, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us.

Employees

SmartHeat does not have direct employees. However, as of December 31, 2015, SmartHeat&#8217;s subsidiaries had approximately 150 full time employees. Our subsidiaries maintain strong ties with their employees and staff and retention is stable. Employee contracts in China adhere to both state and provincial employment regulations and all social security regulations. All compensation, including social insurance, is paid in a timely manner to authorities and employees. There have been no disputes to date and there are no collective bargaining agreements.

&#160;

