 Item 1. Business We are an externally managed, non-diversified closed-end management investment company incorporated in Delaware on May 26, 2009, that has elected to be regulated as a business development company, or BDC, under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the 1940 Act. In addition, we have elected to be treated for tax purposes as a regulated investment company, or RIC, under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Our investment activities are managed by THL Credit Advisors and supervised by our board of directors, a majority of whom are independent of THL Credit Advisors and its affiliates. As a BDC, we are required to comply with certain regulatory requirements. See &#147;-Business Development Company Regulation&#148; for discussion of BDC regulation and other regulatory considerations. We are also registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, or the Advisers Act. 

Our investment objective is to generate both current income and capital appreciation, primarily through investments in privately negotiated debt and equity securities of lower middle market companies. We are a direct lender to lower middle market companies that invests primarily in directly originated first lien and second lien secured loans, including through unitranche investments. In certain instances, we make subordinated debt investments, which may include an associated equity component such as warrants, preferred stock or similar securities, and direct equity co-investments. We may also provide advisory services to managed funds. 

We intend to co-invest, subject to the conditions included in the exemptive order we received from the SEC, with certain of our affiliates. See &#147;-Material Conflicts of Interests&#148; below. We believe that such co-investments may afford us additional investment opportunities and an ability to achieve greater diversification 

We define lower middle market companies to mean both public and privately-held companies with annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, generally between $5 million and $25 million. We expect to generate returns through a combination of contractual interest payments on debt investments, equity appreciation (through options, warrants, conversion rights or direct equity investments) and origination and similar fees. We can offer no assurances that we will achieve our investment objective. 

Since April 2010, after we completed our initial public offering and commenced principal operations, we have been responsible for making, on behalf of ourselves, managed funds and separately managed account, over approximately an aggregate $1,709 million in commitments to 84 separate portfolio companies through a combination of both initial and follow-on investments. Since April 2010, we, along with our managed funds and separately managed account, have received $913.6 million from paydowns and sales of investments. The Company alone has received $747.9 million from paydowns and sales of investments. 

As a BDC, we are generally required to invest at least 70% of our total assets primarily in securities of private and certain U.S. public companies (other than certain financial institutions), cash, cash equivalents and U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. 

&#160; 

We are permitted to borrow money from time to time within the levels permitted by the 1940 Act (which generally allows us to incur leverage for up to one half of our assets). We have used, and expect to continue to use, our credit facilities and other borrowings, along with proceeds from the rotation of our portfolio and proceeds from public securities and private offerings to finance our investment objectives. See &#147;-Business Development Company Regulations&#148; for discussion of BDC regulation and other regulatory considerations. 

Organizational Overview 

The Company was organized as a Delaware corporation on May 26, 2009 and initially funded on July 23, 2009. We commenced principal operations on April 21, 2010. The Company has formed wholly owned subsidiaries which serve as tax blockers, including THL Credit Holdings, Inc., THL Credit AIM Media Holdings, Inc. and THL Credit YP Holdings, Inc., and hold equity or equity-like investments in portfolio companies organized as limited liability companies or other forms of pass-through entities. The Company also has formed wholly owned subsidiaries which serve as the administrative agents on certain investment transactions, including THL Corporate Finance, Inc. and THL Corporate Finance, LLC. 

&#160;

&#160;

(1) &#160; THL Credit Advisors LLC is owned and controlled by certain of the THL Credit Principals (defined below) and a partnership consisting of certain of the partners of THL Partners (defined below). 

(2) &#160; THL Credit SLS Senior Loan Strategies LLC, a majority-owned subsidiary of THL Credit Advisors, focuses principally on broadly syndicated senior loans. 

(3) Greenway I is an investment fund with $150 million of capital committed by affiliates of a single institutional investor, together with a nominal amount committed by the Company, all of which has been paid in and invested by Greenway I, which is managed by us. 

(4) &#160; Greenway II is an investment fund and, together with a related vehicle, has $187 million of capital committed by third party investors, all of which has been paid in and invested by Greenway II, together with a nominal amount committed by the Company, which is managed by us. 

(5) &#160; Logan JV is a joint venture entered into between the Company and Perspecta Trident LLC, or Perspecta, an affiliate of Perspecta Trust LLC, which invests primarily in senior secured first lien term loans. Logan JV has $250 million of capital commitments, of which the Company committed $200 million and Perspecta committed $50 million. 

&#160; 

THL Credit Advisors LLC 

Our investment activities are managed by our investment adviser, THL Credit Advisors. THL Credit Advisors is responsible for sourcing potential investments, conducting research on prospective investments, analyzing investment opportunities, structuring our investments, and monitoring our investments and portfolio companies on an ongoing basis. We pay THL Credit Advisors a management fee as a percentage of our gross assets and incentive fees as a percentage of our ordinary income and capital gains. 

THL Credit Advisors was formed as a Delaware limited liability company on June 26, 2009 and is registered as an investment adviser under the Advisers Act. THL Credit Advisors is an alternative credit investment manager for both direct lending and broadly syndicated investments through public and private vehicles, collateralized loan obligations, separately managed accounts and co-mingled funds. THL Credit Advisors and its credit-focused affiliates managed assets of $6.6 billion as of December 31, 2015 across its two primary investment platforms: Direct Lending and Tradable Credit. 

THL Credit Advisors benefits from a scaled and integrated business that draws on a diverse resource base and the credit and industry expertise of the entire platform. Fundamental credit analysis, rigorous and disciplined underwriting, well-structured investments and ongoing monitoring are the hallmarks of its credit culture. 

THL Credit Advisors&#146; Direct Lending platform invests in directly originated first and second lien secured loans, including unitranche investments. In certain instances, THL Credit Advisors&#146; Direct Lending platform also makes subordinated debt investments, which may include an associated equity component such as warrants, preferred stock or other similar securities, and direct equity co-investments. Direct Lending investments are made through us, our managed funds, Greenway and Greenway II, and Logan JV. 

THL Credit Advisors&#146; Tradable Credit platform manages investments in broadly syndicated loans, structured credit and high-yield securities through CLOs, separate accounts, sub-advisory and various fund formats, including THL Credit Senior Loan Fund (NYSE: TSLF) (&#147;TSLF&#148;), a non-diversified, closed-end management investment company. The Advisor maintains a variety of advisory or sub-advisory relationships across its investment platform. For example, the Advisor may serve as an investment adviser to one or more private funds or registered closed-end funds and presently serves as an investment adviser to CLOs, THL Credit Wind River 2013-2 CLO, Ltd., THL Credit Wind River 2014-1 CLO, Ltd., THL Credit Wind River 2014-2 CLO, Ltd., and a subadviser to a closed-end fund, THL Credit Senior Loan Fund (NYSE: TSLF). 

THL Credit Advisors is headquartered in Boston, with additional investment teams in Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles and New York, allowing it to be close to its portfolio companies as well as its origination and syndication sources. Over the years, THL Credit Advisors has developed deep and diverse national relationships that it leverages to maximize investment opportunities across its platforms. 

THL Credit Advisors is led by Sam W. Tillinghast, Christopher J. Flynn, W. Hunter Stropp and Terrence W. Olson, who constitute its principals (collectively, &#147;THL Credit Principals&#148;). THL Credit Advisor&#146;s Direct Lending investment committee, which serves as our investment committee, is comprised of Messrs. Tillinghast, Flynn, Stropp and Olson (the &#147;Investment Principals&#148;). 

THL Credit Advisors is owned and controlled by the THL Credit Principals and a partnership consisting of certain of the partners of THL Partners. The Investment Principals have worked together over the past eight years at THL Credit Advisors and its predecessor, and together with their prior investment experiences, have invested through multiple business and credit cycles across the entire capital structure. We believe the Investment Principals bring a unique investment perspective and skill set by virtue of their complementary, collective experience as both debt and equity investors. In addition, we believe they bring an active equity ownership mentality and intend to focus on adding value to portfolio companies through board representation, when possible, active monitoring and direct dialogue with management. 

&#160; 

THL Credit Advisors also serves as our Administrator and leases office space to us and provides us with equipment and office services. The tasks of the Administrator include overseeing our financial records, preparing reports to our stockholders and reports filed with the SEC and generally monitoring the payment of our expenses and the performance of administrative and professional services rendered to us by others. 

Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (&#147;THL Partners&#148;) 

THL Partners is one of the world&#146;s oldest and most experienced private equity firms. Since its founding in 1974, the firm has raised over $20 billion of equity capital and invested in more than 130 portfolio companies with an aggregate value of over $150 billion. THL Partners invests in growth-oriented businesses, headquartered primarily in North America, across three sectors: Business &#38; Financial Services, Consumer &#38; Healthcare, and Media &#38; Information Services. The firm partners with portfolio company management to identify and implement operational and strategic improvements to accelerate sustainable revenue and profit growth. THL Partners strives to build great companies of lasting value and generate superior investment returns. We believe we benefit from THL Credit Advisors&#146; relationship with THL Partners. THL Credit Advisors has access to the contacts and industry knowledge of THL Partners&#146; investment team to enhance its transaction sourcing capabilities and consults with the THL Partners team on specific industry issues, trends and other complementary matters. 

Investment Approach 

Our investment approach consists of the following four separate and distinct phases: (1) sourcing; (2) selecting; (3) structuring; and (4) supervising investments. Sourcing involves our efforts to generate as vast a universe of relevant and actionable investment opportunities as possible. Selecting represents our decision- making process regarding which of those investments to pursue. Structuring summarizes our creative approach to deploying capital on a case by case basis in a way that maximizes value. Supervising is a reference to our ongoing rigorous credit monitoring. 

Sourcing 

The elements of our sourcing efforts will include: (i) determining the market in which we intend to participate; (ii) identifying the opportunities within that market; (iii) having a clear strategy; (iv) knowing the competition; and (v) distinguishing our competitive advantages. 

Determining the Market 

We invest primarily in debt securities of sponsored and unsponsored issuers in the lower middle market based mainly in the United States. Our debt investments are composed of directly originated first lien secured loans and second lien secured loans. In certain instances, we also make subordinated or mezzanine debt investments, which may include an associated equity component such as warrants, preferred stock or other similar securities, and direct equity co- investments. Our first lien secured loans may be structured as traditional first lien loans or as unitranche loans. Unitranche structures combine characteristics of traditional first lien senior secured as well as second lien and subordinated loans and our unitranche loans will expose us to the risks associated with second lien and subordinated loans to the extent we invest in the &#147;last-out&#148; tranche. We also may provide advisory services to managed funds. 

It is our belief that having a combination of sponsored and unsponsored investments in debt securities will benefit us with the most attractive opportunities across investment cycles. To that end, our nationwide origination efforts target both private equity sponsors and referral sources of unsponsored companies. 

&#160; 

Market opportunity 

We believe the environment for investing in lower middle market companies is attractive for several reasons, including: 

Improved company fundamentals creating favorable lending trends. Lower middle market companies are experiencing improved fundamentals driven by a stabilizing economy and an increase in confidence. 

Meaningful availability of investable capital at private equity firms. Recent private equity data show over $1 trillion of unused commitments to private equity funds that private equity fund managers are actively looking to allocate to transactions involving new or existing portfolio companies. 

Consolidation among commercial banks has reduced their focus on lower middle market business. We believe that many senior lenders have de-emphasized their service and product offerings to lower middle market companies in favor of lending to large corporate clients, managing capital markets transactions and providing other non-credit services to their customers. 

Increased lending regulation has limited the ability of traditional lenders to provide capital to lower middle market companies. Heightened scrutiny of large bank institutions by regulatory bodies has prompted lending guidelines that have sought to limit leverage, deter banks from lengthening payment timelines and restrict banks from holding certain CLO securities. 

Lower middle market companies are increasingly seeking lenders with long-term capital to provide flexible solutions for their debt and equity financing needs. We believe that many lower middle market companies prefer to execute transactions with private capital providers such as us, rather than execute high-yield bond or equity transactions in the public markets, which may necessitate increased financial and regulatory compliance and reporting obligations. 

The current regulatory and market environment may mean more favorable opportunities for investing in lower middle market companies. The combination of bank consolidation and increased regulation has resulted in fewer lender participants and a greater opportunity for us to originate proprietary investment opportunities in the lower middle market. 

The large yet fragmented lower middle market may offer lenders more attractive economic terms compared to the more efficient, syndicated markets. Investing in debt securities in the lower middle market may offer more favorable returns relative to their investment risk, when compared to investments in public high yield or syndicated bank loan securities. 

Investment strategy 

We believe a strategy focused primarily on debt securities in lower middle market companies has a number of compelling attributes. First, the market for these instruments is relatively inefficient, allowing an experienced investor an opportunity to produce high risk-adjusted returns. Second, downside risk can be managed through an extensive credit-oriented underwriting process, creative structuring techniques and intensive portfolio monitoring. We believe private debt investments generally require the highest level of credit and legal due diligence among debt or credit asset classes. Lastly, compared with equity investments, returns on debt investments tend to be less volatile given the substantial current return component and seniority in the capital structure relative to equity. 

Competition 

Our primary competitors to providing financing to lower middle market companies will include other BDCs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, CLO funds, commercial finance companies and, to 

&#160; 

the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity and hedge funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. 

Competitive advantages 

We believe that we possess the following competitive advantages over many other capital providers to lower middle market companies: 

Experienced management team. As stated above, the Investment Principals are experienced and have worked together extensively and together with their past investment experiences have invested through multiple business and credit cycles across the entire capital structure with the objective of generating attractive, long-term, risk-adjusted returns. Each of the Investment Principals brings a unique investment perspective and skill-set by virtue of their complementary collective experiences as both debt and equity investors. 

Proactive Sourcing Platform. We take a proactive, hands-on, and creative approach to investment sourcing. Our disciplined origination process includes proprietary tools and resources and employs a national platform with a regional focus. With offices in Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles and New York, the THL Credit Principals have a deep and diverse relationship network in the debt capital and private equity markets. These activities and relationships provide an important channel through which we generate investment opportunities consistent with our investment strategy. 

Significant institutional expertise and brand recognition gained from investing approximately $1.8 billion in 87 companies since June 2009 across direct lending credit platform . We have developed the institutional knowledge and operational infrastructure required to successfully achieve our investment objectives. We benefit from proprietary deal flow from strong relationships with sponsors cultivated over seven years of doing business in the lower middle market. Our comprehensive underwriting methodology and monitoring processes have been implemented across all five regional offices. Additionally, the THL Credit Principals are supported by an experienced operational and administrative team. 

Ability to execute unsponsored transactions. We believe we are one of the few credit market participants that selectively seeks unsponsored investments and possesses the experience and resources, as a result of the long-standing relationships of the Investment Principals and ongoing development of new relationships with referral sources and equity sponsors, to source unsponsored debt transactions. Furthermore, we have the capability to perform the rigorous in-house due diligence, structuring and monitoring activities necessary to execute such transactions. 

Affiliation with THL Partners and THL Credit SLS. We are managed by THL Credit Advisors, the credit affiliate of THL Partners and parent of THL Credit Senior Loan Strategies LLC (&#147;THL Credit SLS&#148;). As such, we have access to the relationship network and industry knowledge of both THL Partners and THL Credit SLS to enhance transaction sourcing capabilities. This also provides us with the opportunity to consult with investment teams from each organization on specific industry issues, trends and other complementary matters. 

Investments teams set up in Industry Verticals. We take a proactive, hands-on, and creative approach to investment sourcing, underwriting and portfolio management. Our disciplined origination process includes proprietary tools and resources and employs a national platform with a regional focus. With offices in Boston, Chicago, Houston, New York and Los Angeles, we have a deep and diverse relationship network. Each of our five offices maintain a fully functional deal team (i.e., origination, underwriting and portfolio management). Given our five-office footprint, we are closer to smaller, regional sponsors and have cultivated deep relationships with these private equity firms. In many cases, regional sponsors prefer to partner with local lenders. Once an 

&#160; 

investment opportunity is sourced by one of our fives offices, the opportunity is transitioned to our lead underwriter who is responsible for the respective industry vertical while the individual who originated the opportunity remains closely involved in a relationship management capacity. We cover four primary industry verticals: Business &#38; Financial Services (New York), Consumer &#38; Healthcare (Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles), Industrials &#38; Energy (Houston), and Information Services &#38; Media (Los Angeles). Given our emphasis on four primary industry verticals, we have a strong preference for industry or sector-focused funds and/or sponsors who specialize in only several sectors as opposed to generalist private equity firms. Many lower middle market sponsors do not staff an internal capital markets resource (i.e., one who maintains a database and network of debt financing partners/arrangers); as such, a sponsor&#146;s deal team leader without this resource is directly responsible for arranging debt financing as part of his/her deal process on a case-by-case basis. Lower middle market sponsors with this profile appreciate the value proposition of partnering with a trusted, local relationship and respected lender with deep domain expertise. 

Selecting 

Selecting investments to pursue requires us to have an employable investment philosophy, know our key metrics, have a process to consistently measure those metrics, and implement a repeatable underwriting process that enables our investment committee to make well-reasoned decisions. 

Investment Philosophy 

Our investment philosophy focuses on capital preservation, relative value, and establishing close relationships with portfolio companies. It is our expectation that this multifaceted focus should generate consistent, attractive, risk-adjusted returns coupled with low volatility. 

Capital Preservation. We believe that the key to capital preservation is comprehensive and fundamental credit analysis. We take a long term view of our investments and portfolio with the perspective that most of our investments may need to endure through economic cycles. We refrain from market timing and generally do not enter into investments with the sole intention of realizing short term gains based on changes in market prices. However, we will not hesitate to sell an investment if we believe that it is deteriorating in value and that more recovery will be obtained by selling rather than holding the investment. 

Relative Value. Relative value is an essential part of every investment decision. Relative value is determined in a variety of ways including comparisons to other opportunities available in the same asset class and with portfolio companies in the same or similar industries. Relative value is also analyzed across asset classes (senior vs. subordinate, secured vs. unsecured, debt vs. equity) to ensure that the return of a potential investment is appropriate relative to its position in the capital structure. 

Key Investment Metrics 

Our value-oriented investment philosophy is primarily focused on maximizing yield relative to risk. Upon identifying a potential opportunity, we perform an initial screen to determine whether pursuing intensive due diligence is merited. As part of this process, we have identified several criteria we believe are important in evaluating and investing in prospective portfolio companies. These criteria provide general guidelines for our investment decisions. However, each prospective portfolio company in which we choose to invest may not meet all of these criteria. 

Value orientation/positive cash flow . Our investment philosophy places a premium on fundamental credit analysis and has a distinct value orientation. We will generally focus on companies in which we can invest at relatively low multiples of operating cash flow and that are profitable at the time of investment on an operating cash flow basis. Although we obtain liens on collateral when appropriate and available, we are primarily focused on the predictability of future cash flow. We generally do not intend to invest in start-up companies or companies with speculative business plans. 

&#160; 

Seasoned management with significant equity ownership . Strong, committed management teams are important to the success of an investment and we focus on companies where strong management teams are either already in place or where new management teams have been identified. Additionally, we generally require the portfolio companies to have in place compensation provisions that appropriately incentivize management to succeed and to act in our interests as investors. 

Strong competitive position. We seek to invest in companies that have developed competitive advantages and defensible market positions within their respective markets, provide a needed product or service and are well positioned to capitalize on growth opportunities. 

Exit strategy. We seek companies that we believe will generate consistent cash flow to repay our loans and reinvest in their respective businesses. We expect such internally generated cash flow in portfolio companies to be a key means by which we exit from our investments over time. In addition, we invest in companies whose business models and expected future cash flows offer attractive exit possibilities for the equity component of our returns. These companies include candidates for strategic acquisition by other industry participants and companies that may repay our investments through an initial public offering of common stock or another capital market transaction. 

Due Diligence and Investment Process 

We employ a rigorous and disciplined underwriting and due diligence process. Our process includes a comprehensive understanding of a portfolio company&#146;s industry, market, operational, financial, organizational and legal position and prospects. In addition to our own analysis, we frequently use the service of third parties (either those of the sponsor, if applicable, or those which we retain) for quality of earnings reports, environmental diligence, legal reviews, industry and customer surveys, and background checks. We conduct thorough reference and background checks on senior management for all investments, including, but not limited to reference calls to several constituencies including senior management of past employers, business associates, customers, industry experts, such as equity research analysts and, when appropriate, competitors. 

We seek portfolio companies that have proven management teams that have a vested interest in the company in the form of a meaningful level of equity ownership, that generate stable and predictable cash flow, and whose market position is defensible. We invest in companies with the expectation that we will own the investment through a complete business cycle, and possibly a recession, and we determine the appropriate amount of debt for the company accordingly. In addition, we view a sale of the company which might result in a refinancing of our investment as a possibility but not an expectation. Our intention is to craft strong and lender-friendly credit agreements with covenants, events of default, remedies and inter-creditor agreements being an integral part of our legal documents. 

Our due diligence typically includes the following elements (although not all elements necessarily form part of every due diligence project): 

Portfolio Company Characteristics : key levers of the business including a focus on drivers of cash flow and growth; revenue visibility; customer and supplier concentrations; historical revenue and margin trends; fixed versus variable costs; free cash flow analysis; portfolio company performance in view of industry performance; and sensitivity analysis around various future performance scenarios (with a focus on downside scenario analysis); 

Industry Analysis : including the portfolio company&#146;s position within the context of the general economic environment and relevant industry cycles; industry size and growth rates; competitive landscape; barriers to entry and potential new entrants; product position and defensibility of market share; technological, regulatory and similar threats; and pricing power and cost considerations; 

&#160; 

Management : including the quality, breadth and depth of the portfolio company&#146;s management; track record and prior experience; background checks; reputation; compensation and equity incentives; corporate overhead; motivation; interviews with management, employees, customers and vendors; 

Financial Analysis : an understanding of relevant financial ratios and statistics, including various leverage, liquidity, free cash flow and fixed charge coverage ratios; impact on ratios in various future performance scenarios and comparison of applicable ratios to industry competitors; satisfaction with the auditor of the financial statements; quality of earnings analysis; 

Capital Structure : diverse considerations regarding leverage (including understanding seniority and leverage multiples); ability to service debt; collateral and security protections; covenants and guarantees; equity investment amounts and participants (where applicable); review of other significant structural terms and pertinent legal documentation; and 

Collateral and Enterprise Value : analysis of relevant collateral coverage, including assets on a liquidation basis and enterprise value on a going concern basis; matrix analysis of cash flow and valuation multiples under different scenarios along with recovery estimates; comparison to recent transaction multiples and valuations. 

Underwriting Process 

We employ an extensive due diligence approach tailored to each particular investment opportunity. To begin, we review the information memorandum that the company presenting the investment opportunity or its intermediary has prepared, and discuss the opportunity at a high level with the company&#146;s management team, the sponsor or the intermediary, as applicable. Based on that initial high-level review, the investment team submits a customized due diligence questions request to the company or intermediary. Sometimes the company or intermediary responds directly with materials, and other times there is an online data room that the investment team is invited to review. If the investment opportunity involves a sponsor that has performed a diligence review of the company, the investment team reviews the sponsor&#146;s due diligence reports and analyses. The investment team supplements the document review with phone calls and meetings with the intermediary, sponsor and company&#146;s management team, as applicable. Members of the investment team may also speak with business contacts who are industry experts who provide color on industry and market trends, without discussing the specific investment opportunity. Such industry experts may include employees of THL Partners or their portfolio companies, and persons in THL Credit Advisors&#146; and THL Partners&#146; vast network of business contacts. Members of the investment team build a preliminary financial model and review financial statements as part of the analysis on whether the opportunity is attractive. 

If the investment team believes the opportunity to be compelling or worth further discussion with the larger group, it will prepare a screening memo outlining the opportunity, including a company overview, situation overview, financial summary, investment thesis, risk factors and recommendations for next steps. The screening memo will be reviewed and discussed by all investment professionals (including the investment committee). Members of the investment committee in particular will ask detailed questions about the investment opportunity of the investment team. While no formal vote of the investment committee occurs at this stage, if any member of the investment committee expresses significant concerns about the investment opportunity then the investment team will be unlikely to proceed further. 

During such discussions, the investment team will compile diligence questions raised by the larger group, and formulate a strategy for engaging outside consultants, legal and financial advisors and additional industry experts, as needed. 

Following such a discussion, if the investment professionals (including the investment committee) believe the opportunity to be compelling, the investment team will then pursue the next stages of diligence and draft a term sheet or initial indication of interest when appropriate. Such documentation will then be presented to the sponsor or intermediary, as appropriate, and shared with the company. 

&#160; 

If the investment team decides that the opportunity offers an attractive risk-adjusted return and we are competitively positioned to be awarded the deal, it will begin to work towards final approval by the investment committee by performing confirmatory due diligence. As part of this process, members of the investment team will conduct, among others, in-person meetings with management, in-depth review of historical financial data, thorough reviews of loan documents and material contracts as well as research relating to the company&#146;s industry, customers, suppliers and competitors. 

THL Credit Advisors&#146; in-house counsel will engage outside legal counsel for the opportunity, as well as industry-specific consultants, if appropriate, and accountants. If the investment opportunity involves a sponsor, the investment team may coordinate with the sponsor on engaging such consultants and accountants, and if the investment opportunity involves a co-investor, the investment team will coordinate with the co-investor on engaging all such advisors. Legal counsel will perform legal due diligence, the accountants will perform accounting due diligence, including a quality of earnings report if one does not yet exist, and the industry-specific consultants will diligence various areas such as regulatory restrictions, specific vendor or customer relationships and background checks on the management team. 

The investment team will then present its complete findings in the form of a comprehensive memo to the investment committee and ask for official approval of the proposed investment. 

Investment Committee 

The purpose of the investment committee is to evaluate and approve, as deemed appropriate, all investments by us. The committee process is intended to bring the diverse experience and perspectives of the committee&#146;s members to the analysis and consideration of every investment. The committee also serves to provide investment consistency and adherence to THL Credit Advisors&#146; investment philosophies and policies. The investment committee also determines appropriate investment sizing and suggests ongoing monitoring requirements. 

In addition to reviewing investments, the investment committee meetings serve as a forum to discuss credit views and outlooks. Potential transactions and investment sourcing are also reviewed on a regular basis. Members of our investment team are encouraged to share information and views on credits with the investment committee early in their analysis. This process improves the quality of the analysis and assists the deal team members to work more efficiently. 

Each transaction is presented to the investment committee in a formal written report. Each potential sale or exit of an existing investment is also presented to the investment committee. Our investment committee currently consists of Sam W. Tillinghast, Christopher J. Flynn, W. Hunter Stropp and Terrence W. Olson. To approve a new investment, or to exit or sell an existing investment, the consent of a majority of the four members of the committee is required. 

Structuring 

Our approach to structuring involves us choosing the most appropriate variety of debt and/or equity security for each particular investment; and negotiating the best and most favorable terms. 

Investment Structure 

In order to achieve our investment objective, we invest in first lien and second lien secured loans, including unitranche investments, as well as subordinated or mezzanine debt, which may include an associated equity component such as warrants, preferred stock or other similar securities. In certain instances, we will also make direct equity investments. Typically, our investments will be approximately $10 million to $35 million of capital per transaction and have maturities of five to seven years. In determining whether a prospective investment satisfies our investment criteria, we generally seek a high total return potential on a risk-adjusted basis, although there can be no assurance we will find investments satisfying that criterion or that any such investments will perform in accordance with expectations. 

&#160; 

We generally do not intend to invest in startup companies, operationally distressed situations or companies with speculative business plans. In addition, we may invest up to 30% of our portfolio in opportunistic investments which will be intended to diversify or complement the remainder of our portfolio and to enhance our returns to stockholders. There investments may include high yield bonds, private equity investments, securities of public companies that are broadly traded and securities of non-U.S. companies. We expect that these public companies generally will have debt securities that are non-investment grade. 

Once we have determined that a prospective portfolio company is suitable for investment, we will work with the management of that portfolio company and its other capital providers, including, as applicable, senior, junior, and equity capital providers, to structure an investment. We will negotiate among these parties to agree on how our investment is expected to perform relative to the other capital in the portfolio company&#146;s capital structure. Investments will include stringent structural and credit protections. The legal review process and documentation will be of paramount importance. Internal counsel of THL Credit Advisors will be closely involved in every investment that we make. Investment professionals working with internal counsel drive the principal negotiation of legal terms in connection with the issuance of term sheets. They continue to be involved in negotiations, along with outside counsel who lead the transactions, throughout the legal documentation process. This involvement on each transaction will provide consistent structural and credit protections across investments. 

Security types we invest in include: 

First Lien Senior Secured Loans . We invest in first lien or senior secured loans, and expect such loans to have terms of three to seven years. To the extent we invest in senior secured loans, we obtain first lien security interests in the assets of these portfolio companies that serve as collateral in support of the repayment of these loans. First lien secured loans may also include unitranche loan structures, which typically combine characteristics of traditional first lien senior secured and second lien and/or subordinated loans to the extent such investment is last-out. We may obtain security interests in the assets of the portfolio company that serve as collateral in support of the repayment of these loans. This collateral may take the form of first-priority liens on the assets of the portfolio company and may provide for moderate loan amortization in the initial years of the facility, with the majority of the amortization deferred until loan maturity, although there can be no assurance we will find investments providing for such amortization. Unitranche loans generally allow the borrower to make a large lump sum payment of principal at the end of the loan term, and there is a risk of loss if the borrower is unable to pay the lump sum or refinance the amount owed at maturity. 

Second Lien Loans . We structure our second lien investments as junior secured loans. We obtain security interests in the assets of the portfolio company that serve as collateral in support of the repayment of such loans. This collateral may take the form of second priority liens on the assets of the portfolio company that serve as collateral in support of the repayment of these loans. Second lien loans may provide for moderate loan amortization in the initial years of the facility, with the majority of the amortization deferred until loan maturity, although there can be no assurance we will find investments providing for such amortization. 

Mezzanine Loans . We structure our subordinated, or mezzanine investments, primarily as unsecured, subordinated loans that provide for relatively high, fixed interest rates that will provide us with current interest income. Generally, mezzanine loans rank subordinate in priority of payment to senior debt, such as senior bank debt, and are often unsecured. However, mezzanine loans rank senior to common and preferred equity in a borrowers&#146; capital structure. Mezzanine loans typically have interest-only payments in the early years, with amortization of principal deferred to the later years and may include an associated equity component such as warrants, preferred stock or other similar securities. The warrants associated with mezzanine loans are typically detachable, which allows lenders to receive repayment of their principal on an agreed amortization schedule while retaining their equity interest in the borrower. Also, in some cases our mezzanine loans will be collateralized by a subordinated lien on some or all of the assets of the borrower. Typically, our mezzanine loans will have maturities of five to ten years. In determining whether a prospective mezzanine loan investment satisfies our investment criteria, we generally seek a high total return potential, although there can be no assurance we will find investments satisfying that criterion or that any such investments will perform in accordance with expectations. 

&#160; 

Logan JV . We have invested in Logan JV, which as of December 31, 2015 consisted of a portfolio of loans to 85 different borrowers in industries similar to the companies in our portfolio. Logan JV invests primarily in debt securities that are secured by a first lien on some or all of the issuer&#146;s assets, including traditional senior debt and any related revolving or similar credit facility. This is generally the same collateral as our senior secured loans. 

Investment Terms 

We tailor the terms of each investment to the facts and circumstances of the transaction and the prospective portfolio company, negotiating a structure that protects our rights and manages our risk while creating incentives for the company to achieve its business plan and improve its profitability. We seek to limit the downside potential of our investments by: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; requiring a total return on our investments (including both interest and potential equity appreciation) that compensates us for credit risk; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; negotiating covenants in connection with our investments that afford our portfolio companies as much flexibility in managing their businesses as possible, consistent with preservation of our capital. Such restrictions may include affirmative and negative covenants, default penalties, lien protection, change of control provisions and board rights, including either observation or rights to a seat on the board under some circumstances or participation rights. The intention will be to craft strong and investor-friendly agreements with covenants, events of default, remedies and intercreditor agreements, if applicable, being an integral part of such documents. 

Our investments may include equity features, such as warrants or options to buy a minority interest in the portfolio company. Any warrants we receive with our debt securities generally require only a nominal cost to exercise, and thus, as a portfolio company appreciates in value, we may achieve additional investment return from this equity interest. We may structure the warrants to provide provisions protecting our rights as a minority interest holder, as well as puts, or rights to sell such securities back to the company, upon the occurrence of specified events. In many cases, we also obtain registration rights in connection with these equity interests, which may include demand and &#147;piggyback&#148; registration rights. 

Supervising 

Successful supervision of our investments involves employing active monitoring methods; and developing strong underlying management teams at each portfolio company. 

Monitoring 

We employ the use of board observation and information rights, regular dialogue with company management and sponsors, and detailed internally generated monitoring reports to actively monitor performance. Additionally, We have developed a monitoring template that promotes compliance with these standards and that is used as a tool to assess investment performance relative to plan. 

As part of the monitoring process, the Advisor assesses the risk profile of each of our investments and assigns each portfolio investment a score of a 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5. 

The revised investment performance scores, or IPS, are as follows: 

1 &#150; The portfolio investment is performing above our underwriting expectations. 

2 &#150; The portfolio investment is performing as expected at the time of underwriting. All new investments are initially scored a 2. 

&#160; 

3 &#150; The portfolio investment is operating below our underwriting expectations, and requires closer monitoring. The company may be out of compliance with financial covenants, however, principal or interest payments are generally not past due. 

4 &#150; The portfolio investment is performing materially below our underwriting expectations and returns on our investment are likely to be impaired. Principal or interest payments may be past due, however, full recovery of principal and interest payments are expected. 

5 &#150; The portfolio investment is performing substantially below expectations and the risk of the investment has increased substantially. The company is in payment default and the principal and interest payments are not expected to be repaid in full. 

For any investment receiving a score of a 3 or lower THL Credit Advisors will increase their level of focus and prepare regular updates for the investment committee summarizing current operating results, material impending events and recommended actions. 

Our Advisor monitors and, when appropriate, changes the investment scores assigned to each investment in our portfolio. In connection with our investment valuation process, the Advisor and board of directors review these investment scores on a quarterly basis. Our average investment score was 2.13 and 2.07 at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. The following is a distribution of the investment scores of our portfolio investments at December 31, 2015 and 2014 (in millions): 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; December 31, 2015 &#160; &#160; December 31, 2014 &#160; Investment Score 

&#160; Fair Value &#160; &#160; % of Total Portfolio &#160; &#160; Fair Value &#160; &#160; % of Total Portfolio &#160; 1 (a) 

&#160; $ 137.6 &#160; &#160; &#160; 18.2 % &#160; $ 72.1 &#160; &#160; &#160; 9.2 % 2 (b) 

&#160; &#160; 417.4 &#160; &#160; &#160; 55.4 % &#160; &#160; 569.5 &#160; &#160; &#160; 72.7 % 3 (c) 

&#160; &#160; 185.3 &#160; &#160; &#160; 24.6 % &#160; &#160; 136.0 &#160; &#160; &#160; 17.3 % 4 (d) 

&#160; &#160; 13.6 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1.8 % &#160; &#160; 6.6 &#160; &#160; &#160; 0.8 % 5 (e) 

&#160; &#160; 0.3 &#160; &#160; &#160; 0.0 % &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; Total 

&#160; $ 754.2 &#160; &#160; &#160; 100.0 % &#160; $ 784.2 &#160; &#160; &#160; 100.0 % &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160;

&#160;

&#160; &#160;

(a) &#160; As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, Investment Score &#147;1&#148; included $26.5 million and $0, respectively, of loans to companies in which we also hold equity securities. 

(b) &#160; As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, Investment Score &#147;2&#148; included $122.0 million and $126.0 million, respectively, of loans to companies in which we also hold equity securities. 

(c) &#160; As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, Investment Score &#147;3&#148; included $48.4 million and $24.7 million, respectively, of loans to companies in which we also hold equity securities. 

(d) &#160; As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, Investment Score &#147;4&#148; included $0 and $4.6 million, respectively, of loans to companies in which we also hold equity securities. 

(e) &#160; As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, Investment Score &#147;5&#148; included $0.3 million and $0, respectively, of loans to companies in which we also hold equity securities. 

Loans are placed on non-accrual status when principal or interest payments are past due 30 days or more and/or when it is no longer probable that principal or interest will be collected. However, we may make exceptions to this policy if the loan has sufficient collateral value and is in the process of collection. As of December 31, 2015, we had two loans on non-accrual with an amortized cost basis of $25.0 million and a fair value of $13.9 million. As of December 31, 2014, we had no loans on non-accrual. We record the reversal of any previously accrued income against the same income category reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. 

&#160; 

Investment management agreement 

THL Credit Advisors serves as our investment adviser. THL Credit Advisors is registered as an investment adviser under the Advisers Act. Subject to the overall supervision of our board of directors, THL Credit Advisors manages the day-to-day operations of, and provide investment advisory and management services to, THL Credit, Inc. The address of THL Credit Advisors is 100 Federal Street, 31 st Floor, Boston, Massachusetts 02110. 

Under the terms of our investment management agreement, THL Credit Advisors: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; determines the composition of our portfolio, the nature and timing of the changes to our portfolio and the manner of implementing such changes; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; identifies, evaluates and negotiates the structure of the investments we make (including performing due diligence on our prospective portfolio companies); and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; closes, monitors and administers the investments we make, including the exercise of any voting or consent rights. 

THL Credit Advisors&#146; services under the investment management agreement are not exclusive, and it is free to furnish similar services to other entities so long as its services to us are not impaired. 

Pursuant to our investment management agreement, we pay THL Credit Advisors a fee for investment advisory and management services consisting of a base management fee and a two-part incentive fee. 

Management Fee . The base management fee is calculated at an annual rate of 1.5% of our gross assets payable quarterly in arrears on a calendar quarter basis. For purposes of calculating the base management fee, &#147;gross assets&#148; is determined without deduction for any liabilities. The base management fee is calculated based on the value of the Company&#146;s gross assets at the end of the most recently completed calendar quarter, and appropriately adjusted for any share issuances or repurchases during the current calendar quarter. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, THL Credit Advisors earned base management fees of $11.8 million, $11.1 million and $7.5 million, respectively, from us. 

Incentive Fee . The incentive fee has two components, ordinary income and capital gains, calculated as follows: 

The ordinary income component is calculated, and payable, quarterly in arrears based on our preincentive fee net investment income for the immediately preceding calendar quarter, subject to a cumulative total return requirement and to deferral of non-cash amounts. The preincentive fee net investment income, which is expressed as a rate of return on the value of our net assets attributable to our common stock, for the immediately preceding calendar quarter, will have a 2.0% (which is 8.0% annualized) hurdle rate (also referred to as &#147;minimum income level&#148;). Preincentive fee net investment income means interest income, dividend income and any other income (including any other fees, such as commitment, origination, structuring, diligence, managerial assistance and consulting fees or other fees that we receive from portfolio companies) accrued during the calendar quarter, minus our operating expenses for the quarter (including the base management fee, expenses payable under our administration agreement (discussed below), and any interest expense and any dividends paid on any issued and outstanding preferred stock, but excluding the incentive fee and any offering expenses and other expenses not charged to operations but excluding certain reversals to the extent such reversals have the effect of reducing previously accrued incentive fees based on the deferral of non-cash interest. Preincentive fee net investment income includes, in the case of investments with a deferred interest feature (such as original issue discount, debt instruments with PIK interest and zero coupon securities), accrued income that we have not yet received in cash. The Advisor receives no incentive fee for any calendar quarter in which our preincentive fee net investment income does not exceed the minimum income level. Subject to the cumulative total return requirement described below, the Advisor receives 100% of our preincentive fee net investment income for any calendar quarter with respect to that portion of the preincentive net investment income for such quarter, if any, 

&#160; 

that exceeds the minimum income level but is less than 2.5% (which is 10.0% annualized) of net assets (also referred to as the &#147;catch-up&#148; provision) and 20.0% of our preincentive fee net investment income for such calendar quarter, if any, greater than 2.5% (10.0% annualized) of net assets. The foregoing incentive fee is subject to a total return requirement, which provides that no incentive fee in respect of our preincentive fee net investment income is payable except to the extent 20.0% of the cumulative net increase in net assets resulting from operations over the then current and 11 preceding calendar quarters exceeds the cumulative incentive fees accrued and/or paid for the 11 preceding quarters. In other words, any ordinary income incentive fee that is payable in a calendar quarter is limited to the lesser of (i) 20% of the amount by which our preincentive fee net investment income for such calendar quarter exceeds the 2.0% hurdle, subject to the &#147;catch-up&#148; provision, and (ii) (x) 20% of the cumulative net increase in net assets resulting from operations for the then current and 11 preceding quarters minus (y) the cumulative incentive fees accrued and/or paid for the 11 preceding calendar quarters. For the foregoing purpose, the &#147;cumulative net increase in net assets resulting from operations&#148; is the amount, if positive, of the sum of our preincentive fee net investment income, base management fees, realized gains and losses and unrealized appreciation and depreciation for the then current and 11 preceding calendar quarters. In addition, the portion of such incentive fee that is attributable to deferred interest (sometimes referred to as payment-in-kind interest, or PIK, or original issue discount, or OID) will be paid to THL Credit Advisors, together with interest thereon from the date of deferral to the date of payment, only if and to the extent we actually receive such interest in cash, and any accrual thereof will be reversed if and to the extent such interest is reversed in connection with any write-off or similar treatment of the investment giving rise to any deferred interest accrual. There is no accumulation of amounts on the hurdle rate from quarter to quarter and accordingly there is no clawback of amounts previously paid if subsequent quarters are below the quarterly hurdle rate and there is no delay of payment if prior quarters are below the quarterly hurdle rate. 

Preincentive fee net investment income does not include any realized capital gains, realized capital losses or unrealized capital appreciation or depreciation. Because of the structure of the incentive fee, it is possible that we may pay an incentive fee in a quarter where we incur a loss, subject to the total return requirement and deferral of non-cash amounts. For example, if we receive preincentive fee net investment income in excess of the quarterly minimum hurdle rate, we will pay the applicable incentive fee even if we have incurred a loss in that quarter due to realized and unrealized capital losses. Our net investment income used to calculate this component of the incentive fee is also included in the amount of our gross assets used to calculate the 1.5% base management fee. These calculations will be appropriately prorated for any period of less than three months and adjusted for any share issuances or repurchases during the current quarter. 

The following is a graphical representation of the calculation of the income-related portion of the incentive fee: 

Quarterly Incentive Fee Based on Net Investment Income 

Pre-incentive fee net investment income (expressed as a percentage of the value of net assets) 

&#160;

Pre-incentive fee net investment income allocated to first component of incentive fee 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we incurred $11.9 million, $11.9 million and $10.4 million, respectively, of incentive fees related to ordinary income. As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, $2.9 million and $3.1 million, respectively, of such incentive fees were currently payable to the Advisor. As of 

&#160; 

December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, $1.3 million and $1.1 million, respectively of incentive fees incurred by us were generated from deferred interest (i.e. PIK, certain discount accretion and deferred interest) and are not payable until such amounts are received in cash. 

Additionally, if the investment management agreement is terminated as of a date that is not a calendar year end, the termination date will be treated as though it were a calendar year end for purposes of calculating and paying the capital gains incentive fee. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, THL Credit Advisors earned incentive fees of $11.9 million, $11.2 million and $10.7 million, respectively, from us. 

Pre-incentive fee capital gains allocated to second component of incentive fee 

The second component of the incentive fee (capital gains incentive fee) is determined and payable in arrears as of the end of each calendar year (or upon termination of the investment management agreement, as of the termination date). This component is equal to 20.0% of our cumulative aggregate realized capital gains from inception through the end of that calendar year, computed net of the cumulative aggregate realized capital losses and cumulative aggregate unrealized capital depreciation through the end of such year. The aggregate amount of any previously paid capital gains incentive fees is subtracted from such capital gains incentive fee calculated. 

Examples of Quarterly Incentive Fee Calculation 

Example 1: Income Portion of Incentive Fee before Total Return Requirement Calculation: 

Assumptions 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Hurdle rate (1) = 2.00% 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Base management fee (2) = 0.375% 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Other expenses (legal, accounting, custodian, transfer agent, etc.)(3) = 0.40% 

Alternative 1 

Additional Assumptions 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Investment income (including interest, dividends, fees, etc.) = 1.25% 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Pre-incentive fee net investment income (investment income&#151;(base management fee &#43; other expenses)) = 0.475% 

Pre-incentive net investment income does not exceed hurdle rate, therefore there is no incentive fee. 

Alternative 2 

Additional Assumptions 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Investment income (including interest, dividends, fees, etc.) = 2.90% 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Preincentive fee net investment income (investment income&#151;(base management fee &#43; other expenses)) = 2.125% 

Preincentive fee net investment income exceeds hurdle rate, therefore there is an incentive fee. 

Incentive fee = (100% &#215; &#147;Catch-Up&#148;) &#43; (the greater of 0% AND (20.0% &#215; (preincentive fee net investment income&#151;2.5%))) 

= (100.0% x (preincentive fee net investment income&#151;2.00%)) &#43;0% 

= (100.0% x (2.125%&#151;2.00%)) 

&#160; 

= 100% x 0.125% 

= 0.125% 

Alternative 3 

Additional Assumptions 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Investment income (including interest, dividends, fees, etc.) = 3.50% 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Preincentive fee net investment income (investment income&#151;(base management fee &#43; other expenses)) = 2.725% 

Preincentive fee net investment income exceeds hurdle rate, therefore there is an incentive fee. 

Incentive Fee = (100% &#215; &#147;Catch-Up&#148;) &#43; (the greater of 0% AND (20.0% &#215; (preincentive fee net investment income&#151;2.5%))) 

= (100% &#215; (2.5%&#151;2.0%)) &#43; (20.0% &#215; (2.725%&#151;2.5%)) 

= 0.5% &#43; (20.0% &#215; 0.225%) 

= 0.5% &#43; 0.045% 

= 0.545% 

&#160;

(1) &#160; Represents 8.0% annualized hurdle rate. 

(2) &#160; Represents 1.5% annualized base management fee. 

(3) &#160; Excludes organizational and offering expenses. 

Example 2: Income Portion of Incentive Fee with Total Return Requirement Calculation: 

Assumptions 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Hurdle rate (1) = 2.00% 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Base management fee (2) = 0.375% 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Other expenses (legal, accounting, transfer agent, etc.) (3) = 0.40% 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cumulative incentive compensation accrued and/or paid for preceding 11 calendar quarters = $9,000,000 

Alternative 1 

Additional Assumptions 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Investment income (including interest, dividends, fees, etc.) = 3.50% 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Preincentive fee net investment income (investment income &#150; (base management fee &#43; other expenses)) = 2.725% 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 20.0% of cumulative net increase in net assets resulting from operations over current and preceding 11 calendar quarters = $8,000,000 

Although our preincentive fee net investment income exceeds the hurdle rate of 2.0% (as shown in Alternative 3 of Example 1 above), no incentive fee is payable because 20.0% of the cumulative net increase in net assets resulting from operations over the then current and 11 preceding calendar quarters did not exceed the cumulative income and capital gains incentive fees accrued and/or paid for the preceding 11 calendar quarters. 

&#160; 

Alternative 2 

Additional Assumptions 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Investment Income (including interest, dividends, fees, etc.) = 3.50% 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Preincentive fee net investment income (investment income &#150; (base management fee &#43; other expenses)) = 2.725%. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 20% of cumulative net increase in net assets resulting from operations over current and preceding 11 calendar quarters = $10,000,000 

Because our preincentive fee net investment income exceeds the hurdle rate of 2.0% and because 20.0% of the cumulative net increase in net assets resulting from operations over the then current and 11 preceding calendar quarters exceeds the cumulative income and capital gains incentive fees accrued and/or paid for the preceding 11 calendar quarters, an incentive fee would be payable, as shown in Alternative 3 of Example 1 above. 

&#160;

(1) &#160; Represents 8.0% annualized hurdle rate. 

(2) &#160; Represents 1.5% annualized base management fee. 

(3) &#160; Excludes organizational and offering expenses. 

Example 3: Capital Gains Portion of Incentive Fee: 

Alternative 1: 

Assumptions 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 1: $20 million investment made in Company A (&#147;Investment A&#148;), and $30 million investment made in Company B (&#147;Investment B&#148;) 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 2: Investment A sold for $50 million and fair market value, or FMV, of Investment B determined to be $32 million 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 3: FMV of Investment B determined to be $25 million 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 4: Investment B sold for $31 million 

The capital gains portion of the incentive fee would be: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 1: None 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 2: Capital gains incentive fee of $6.0 million ($30 million realized capital gains on sale of Investment A multiplied by 20.0%) 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 3: None; $5.0 million (20.0% multiplied by ($30 million cumulative capital gains less $5 million cumulative capital depreciation)) less $6.0 million (previous capital gains fee paid in Year 2) 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 4: Capital gains incentive fee of $200,000; $6.20 million ($31 million cumulative realized capital gains multiplied by 20.0%) less $6.0 million (capital gains fee paid in Year 2) 

Alternative 2 

Assumptions 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 1: $20 million investment made in Company A (&#147;Investment A&#148;), $30 million investment made in Company B (&#147;Investment B&#148;) and $25 million investment made in Company C (&#147;Investment C&#148;) 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 2: Investment A sold for $50 million, FMV of Investment B determined to be $25 million and FMV of Investment C determined to be $25 million 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 3: FMV of Investment B determined to be $27 million and Investment C sold for $30 million 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 4: FMV of Investment B determined to be $35 million 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 5: Investment B sold for $20 million 

The capital gains portion of the incentive fee would be: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 1: None 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 2: Capital gains incentive fee of $5.0 million; 20.0% multiplied by $25 million ($30 million realized capital gains on Investment A less $5 million unrealized capital depreciation on Investment B) 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 3: Capital gains incentive fee of $1.4 million; $6.4 million (20.0% multiplied by $32 million ($35 million cumulative realized capital gains less $3 million unrealized capital depreciation on Investment B)) less $5.0 million capital gains fee paid in Year 2 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 4: None 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Year 5: None; $5.0 million of capital gains incentive fee (20.0% multiplied by $25 million (cumulative realized capital gains of $35 million less realized capital losses of $10 million)) less $6.4 million cumulative capital gains fee paid in Year 2 and Year 3 

Payment of our expenses 

All investment professionals and staff of THL Credit Advisors, when and to the extent engaged in providing investment advisory and management services to us; and the compensation and routine overhead expenses of such personnel allocable to such services (including health insurance, 401(k) plan benefits, payroll taxes and other compensation related matters), are provided and paid for by THL Credit Advisors. We bear all other costs and expenses of our operations and transactions, including those relating to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our organization; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; calculating our net asset value and net asset value per share (including the cost and expenses of any independent valuation firm); 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expenses, including travel-related expenses, incurred by THL Credit Advisors or payable to third parties in originating investments for the portfolio, performing due diligence on prospective portfolio companies, monitoring our investments and, if necessary, enforcing our rights; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; interest payable on debt, if any, incurred to finance our investments; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the costs of future offerings of common shares and other securities, if any; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the base management fee and any incentive management fee; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; distributions on our shares; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; administrator expenses payable under our administration agreement; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; transfer agent and custody fees and expenses; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the allocated costs incurred by THL Credit Advisors as our administrator in providing managerial assistance to those portfolio companies that request it; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; amounts payable to third parties relating to, or associated with, evaluating, making and disposing of investments; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; brokerage fees and commissions; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; registration fees; 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; listing fees; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; taxes; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; independent director fees and expenses; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; costs of preparing and filing reports or other documents with the SEC; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the costs of any reports, proxy statements or other notices to our stockholders, including printing costs; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; costs of holding stockholder meetings; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our fidelity bond; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; directors and officers/errors and omissions liability insurance, and any other insurance premiums; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; litigation, indemnification and other non-recurring or extraordinary expenses; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; direct costs and expenses of administration and operation, including audit and legal costs; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fees and expenses associated with marketing efforts, including to investors, sponsors and other origination sources; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; dues, fees and charges of any trade association of which we are a member; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; all other expenses reasonably incurred by us or THL Credit Advisors in connection with administering our business, such as the allocable portion of overhead under our administration agreement, including rent and other allocable portions of the cost of certain of our officers and their respective staffs. 

We reimburse THL Credit Advisors for costs and expenses incurred by THL Credit Advisors for office space rental, office equipment and utilities allocable to the performance by THL Credit Advisors of its duties under the investment management agreement, as well as any costs and expenses incurred by THL Credit Advisors relating to any non-investment advisory, administrative or operating services provided by THL Credit Advisors to us or in the form of managerial assistance to portfolio companies that request it. 

THL Credit Advisors may pay amounts owed by us to third party providers of goods or services. We will subsequently reimburse THL Credit Advisors for such amounts paid on our behalf. 

Limitation of liability and indemnification 

The investment management agreement provides that THL Credit Advisors and its officers, directors, employees and affiliates are not liable to us or any of our stockholders for any act or omission by it or its employees in the supervision or management of our investment activities or for any loss sustained by us or our stockholders, except that the foregoing exculpation does not extend to any act or omission constituting willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of its obligations under the investment management agreement. The investment management agreement also provides for indemnification by us of THL Credit Advisors&#146; members, directors, officers, employees, agents and control persons for liabilities incurred by it in connection with their services to us, subject to the same limitations and to certain conditions. 

Duration and termination 

The investment management agreement was approved by our board of directors on March 8, 2016, as described further below under &#147;Business&#151;Board Approval of the Investment Advisory Agreement.&#148; Unless terminated earlier as described below, it will remain in effect from year to year if approved annually by our board of directors or by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities, including, in either case, approval by a majority of our directors who are not interested persons. The investment management agreement will automatically terminate in the event of its assignment. The investment management agreement may be terminated by either party without penalty upon not less than 60 days written notice to the 

&#160; 

other. Any termination by us must be authorized either by our board of directors or by vote of our stockholders. See &#147;Risk Factors&#151;Risks relating to our business.&#148; We are dependent upon senior management personnel of our investment adviser for our future success, and if our investment adviser is unable to retain qualified personnel or if our investment adviser loses any member of its senior management team, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed. 

Board Approval of the Investment Advisory Agreement 

At a meeting of our Board of Directors held on March 8, 2016, our board of directors unanimously voted to approve the investment advisory agreement. In reaching a decision to approve the investment advisory agreement, the board of directors reviewed a significant amount of information and considered, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the nature, quality and extent of the advisory and other services to be provided to us by THL Credit Advisors; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the fee structures of comparable externally managed business development companies that engage in similar investing activities; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our projected operating expenses and expense ratio compared to business development companies with similar investment objectives; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; any existing and potential sources of indirect income to THL Credit Advisors from its relationship with us and the profitability of that relationship, including through the investment advisory agreement; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; information about the services to be performed and the personnel performing such services under the investment advisory agreement; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the organizational capability and financial condition of THL Credit Advisors and its affiliates; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; various other matters. 

Based on the information reviewed and the discussions detailed above, the board of directors, including all of the directors who are not &#147;interested persons&#148; as defined in the 1940 Act, concluded that the investment advisory fee rates and terms are reasonable in relation to the services provided and approved the investment advisory agreement as being in the best interests of our stockholders. 

Administration Agreement 

We have entered into an administration agreement with THL Credit Advisors, which we refer to as the &#147;administration agreement,&#148; under which the Administrator provides administrative services to us. For providing these services, facilities and personnel, we reimburse the Administrator for our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by the Administrator in performing its obligations under the administration agreement, including rent and our allocable portion of the cost of certain of our officers and their respective staffs. 

The Administrator may pay amounts owed by us to third-party providers of goods or services. We will subsequently reimburse the Administrator for such amounts paid on our behalf. 

Additionally, at our request, the Administrator provides on our behalf significant managerial assistance to our portfolio companies to which we are required to provide such assistance. 

License agreement 

We and THL Credit Advisors have entered into a license agreement with THL Partners under which THL Partners has granted to us and THL Credit Advisors a non-exclusive, personal, revocable worldwide non- 

&#160; 

transferable license to use the trade name and service mark THL , which is a proprietary mark of THL Partners, for specified purposes in connection with our respective businesses. This license agreement is royalty-free, which means we are not charged a fee for our use of the trade name and service mark THL . The license agreement is terminable either in its entirety or with respect to us or THL Credit Advisors by THL Partners at any time in its sole discretion upon 60 days prior written notice, and is also terminable with respect to either us or THL Credit Advisors by THL Partners in the case of certain events of non-compliance. After the expiration of its first one year term, the entire license agreement is terminable by either us or THL Credit Advisors at our or its sole discretion upon 60 days prior written notice. Upon termination of the license agreement, we and THL Credit Advisors must cease to use the name and mark THL , including any use in our respective legal names, filings, listings and other uses that may require us to withdraw or replace our names and marks. Other than with respect to the limited rights contained in the license agreement, we and THL Credit Advisors have no right to use, or other rights in respect of, the THL name and mark. We are an entity operated independently from THL Partners, and third parties who deal with us have no recourse against THL Partners. 

Staffing 

We do not currently have any employees and do not expect to have any employees. Our Advisor and Administrator have hired and expect to continue to hire professionals with skills applicable to our business plan and investment objective, including experience in lower middle market investment, leveraged finance and capital markets. Each of our executive officers is an employee and executive officer of our Advisor. Our day-to-day investment operations are managed by our Advisor. The services necessary for the origination and administration of our investment portfolio are provided by investment professionals employed by our Advisor. Our Advisor&#146;s investment professionals focus on origination and transaction development and the ongoing monitoring of our investments. We reimburse the Advisor, in its capacity as our Administrator, for costs and expenses incurred by our Administrator for office space rental, office equipment and utilities allocable to our Administrator under the administration agreement, as well as any costs and expenses incurred by our Advisor relating to any non-investment advisory, administrative or operating services provided by our Advisor to us. In addition, we reimburse our Administrator for our allocable portion of expenses it incurs in performing its obligations under the administration agreement, including rent and our allocable portion of the cost of certain of our officers and their respective staffs. 

Material Conflicts of Interest 

We entered into an investment management agreement on April 1, 2010 under which the Advisor, subject to the overall supervision of our board of directors manages the day-to-day operations of, and provides investment advisory services to us. The Advisor and its affiliates may also manage other funds in the future that may have investment mandates that are similar, in whole and in part, with ours. For example, the Advisor may serve as investment adviser to one or more private funds or registered closed-end funds, and presently serves as an investment adviser to CLOs, THL Credit Wind River 2013-2 CLO, Ltd., THL Credit Wind River 2014-1 CLO, Ltd., THL Credit Wind River 2014-2 CLO, Ltd., and a subadviser to a closed-end fund, THL Credit Senior Loan Fund (NYSE: TSLF). In addition, our officers may serve in similar capacities for one or more private funds or registered closed-end funds. The Advisor&#146;s policies are also designed to manage and mitigate the conflicts of interest associated with the allocation of investment opportunities if we are able to co-invest, either pursuant to SEC interpretive positions or an exemptive order, with other funds managed by the Adviser and its affiliates. In addition, we note that any affiliated fund currently formed or formed in the future and managed by the Advisor or its affiliates may have overlapping investment objectives with our own and, accordingly, may invest in asset classes similar to those targeted by us. However, in certain instances due to regulatory, tax, investment, or other restrictions, certain investment opportunities may not be appropriate for either us or other funds managed by the Advisor. 

The 1940 Act generally prohibits BDCs from making certain negotiated co-investments with affiliates absent an order from the SEC permitting the BDC to do so. Unless otherwise provided in the allocation policy, if 

&#160; 

an investment opportunity is appropriate for both us and other investment funds and the investment opportunity requires more than the price to be negotiated, the investment opportunity will be made available to the other investment fund or us on an alternating basis based on the date of closing of each such investment opportunity and each fund&#146;s available capital. As a result, the Advisor and/or its affiliates may face conflicts in allocating investment opportunities between us and such other entities. Although the Advisor and its affiliates will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner and consistent with applicable allocation procedures, it is possible that, in the future, we may not be given the opportunity to participate in investments made by investment funds managed by the Advisor or its affiliates. 

The SEC staff has granted us relief sought in an exemptive application that expands our ability to co-invest in portfolio companies with other funds managed by the Adviser or its affiliates (&#147;Affiliated Funds&#148;) in a manner consistent with our investment objective, positions, policies, strategies and restrictions as well as regulatory requirements and other pertinent factors, subject to compliance with certain conditions (the &#147;Order&#148;). Pursuant to the Order, we are permitted to co-invest with our affiliates if a &#147;required majority&#148; (as defined in Section 57(o) of the 1940 Act) or our independent directors make certain conclusions in connection with a co-investment transaction, including that (1) the terms of the transactions, including the consideration to be paid, are reasonable and fair to us and our stockholders and do not involve overreaching by us or our stockholders on the part of any person concerned, and (2) the transaction is consistent with the interests of our stockholders and is consistent with our investment objective and strategies. 

Business Development Company Regulations 

We have elected to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. We have also elected to be treated for tax purposes as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. The 1940 Act contains prohibitions and restrictions relating to transactions between BDCs and their affiliates (including any investment advisers or sub-advisers), principal underwriters and affiliates of those affiliates or underwriters and requires that a majority of the directors be persons other than &#147;interested persons,&#148; as that term is defined in the 1940 Act. 

In addition, the 1940 Act provides that we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or to withdraw our election as, a BDC unless approved by &#147;a majority of our outstanding voting securities&#148; as defined in the 1940 Act. A majority of the outstanding voting securities of a company is defined under the 1940 Act as the lesser of: (a) 67% or more of such company&#146;s voting securities present at a meeting if more than 50% of the outstanding voting securities of such company are present or represented by proxy, or (b) more than 50% of the outstanding voting securities of such company. We do not anticipate any substantial change in the nature of our business. 

We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, issue and sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value of our common stock if (1) our board of directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and (2) our stockholders have approved our policy and practice of making such sales within the preceding 12 months. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities. At our Annual Meeting of Stockholders on June 2, 2015, our stockholders approved a proposal authorizing us to sell up to 25% of our common stock at a price below our then-current net asset value per share, subject to approval by our board of directors for the offering. The authorization expires on the earlier of June 2, 2016 or the date of our 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which is expected to be held in June 2016. Our stockholders also approved a proposal to authorize us to offer and issue debt with warrants or debt convertible into shares of our common stock at an exercise or conversion price that, at the time such warrants or convertible debt are issued, will not be less than the market value per share but may be below our then-current net asset value per share. 

As a BDC, we are required to meet a coverage ratio of the value of total assets to senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. We may also 

&#160; 

be prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our board of directors who are not interested persons and, in some cases, prior approval by the SEC. 

Recent legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives intended to revise certain regulations applicable to BDCs. The legislation provided for (i) modifying the asset coverage ratio from 200% to 150%, (ii) permitting BDCs to file registration statements with the SEC that incorporate information from already-filed reports by reference, (iii) utilizing other streamlined registration processes afforded to operating companies, and (iv) allowing BDCs to own investment adviser subsidiaries. There are no assurances as to when the legislation will be enacted by Congress, if at all, or, if enacted, what final form the legislation would take. 

We may invest up to 100% of our assets in securities acquired directly from issuers in privately negotiated transactions. With respect to such securities, we may, for the purpose of public resale, be deemed an &#147;underwriter&#148; as that term is defined in the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act. We do not intend to acquire securities issued by any investment company that exceed the limits imposed by the 1940 Act. Under these limits, except for registered money market funds, we generally cannot acquire more than 3% of the voting stock of any investment company, invest more than 5% of the value of our total assets in the securities of one investment company or invest more than 10% of the value of our total assets in the securities of more than one investment company. With regard to that portion of our portfolio invested in securities issued by investment companies, it should be noted that such investments might indirectly subject our stockholders to additional expenses as they will indirectly be responsible for the costs and expenses of such companies. None of our investment policies are fundamental and any may be changed without stockholder approval. 

Qualifying assets 

Under the 1940 Act, a BDC may not acquire any asset other than assets of the type listed in section 55(a) of the 1940 Act, which are referred to as qualifying assets, unless, at the time the acquisition is made, qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the company&#146;s total assets. The principal categories of qualifying assets relevant to our business are the following: - 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Securities purchased in transactions not involving any public offering from the issuer of such securities, which issuer (subject to certain limited exceptions) is an eligible portfolio company, or from any person who is, or has been during the preceding 13 months, an affiliated person of an eligible portfolio company, or from any other person, subject to such rules as may be prescribed by the SEC. An eligible portfolio company is defined in the 1940 Act as any issuer which: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is organized under the laws of, and has its principal place of business in, the United States; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is not an investment company (other than a small business investment company wholly owned by the BDC) or a company that would be an investment company but for certain exclusions under the 1940 Act; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfies either of the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; has a market capitalization of less than $250 million or does not have any class of securities listed on a national securities exchange; or 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; is controlled by a BDC or a group of companies including a BDC, the BDC actually exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the eligible portfolio company, and, as a result thereof, the BDC has an affiliated person who is a director of the eligible portfolio company. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Securities of any eligible portfolio company which we control. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Securities purchased in a private transaction from a U.S. issuer that is not an investment company or from an affiliated person of the issuer, or in transactions incident thereto, if the issuer is in bankruptcy 

&#160; 

&#160; and subject to reorganization or if the issuer, immediately prior to the purchase of its securities was unable to meet its obligations as they came due without material assistance other than conventional lending or financing arrangements. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Securities of an eligible portfolio company purchased from any person in a private transaction if there is no ready market for such securities and we already own 60% of the outstanding equity of the eligible portfolio company. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Securities received in exchange for or distributed on or with respect to securities described above, or pursuant to the exercise of warrants or rights relating to such securities. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities or high-quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment. 

Control, as defined by the 1940 Act, is presumed to exist where a BDC beneficially owns more than 25% of the outstanding voting securities of the portfolio company. 

Significant managerial assistance to portfolio companies 

A BDC must have been organized and have its principal place of business in the United States and must be operated for the purpose of making investments in the types of securities described in &#147;Business&#151;Business Development Company Regulations&#151;Qualifying assets&#148; above. Business development companies generally must offer to make available to the issuer of the securities significant managerial assistance, except in circumstances where either (i) the business development company controls such issuer of securities or (ii) the business development company purchases such securities in conjunction with one or more other persons acting together and one of the other persons in the group makes available such managerial assistance. Making available managerial assistance means, among other things, any arrangement whereby the BDC, through its directors, officers or employees, offers to provide, and, if accepted, does so provide, significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations or business objectives and policies of a portfolio company. 

Temporary investments 

Pending investment in other types of &#147;qualifying assets,&#148; as described above, our investments may consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities or high-quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment, which we refer to, collectively, as temporary investments, so that 70% of our assets are qualifying assets. We may invest in highly rated commercial paper, U.S. Government agency notes, U.S. Treasury bills or in repurchase agreements relating to such securities that are fully collateralized by cash or securities issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. A repurchase agreement involves the purchase by an investor, such as us, of a specified security and the simultaneous agreement by the seller to repurchase it at an agreed-upon future date and at a price which is greater than the purchase price by an amount that reflects an agreed-upon interest rate. Consequently, repurchase agreements are functionally similar to loans. There is no percentage restriction on the proportion of our assets that may be invested in such repurchase agreements. However, the 1940 Act and certain diversification tests in order to qualify as a RIC for federal income tax purposes typically require us to limit the amount we invest with any one counterparty. Our investment Advisor monitors the creditworthiness of the counterparties with which we enter into repurchase agreement transactions. 

Warrants and Options 

Under the 1940 Act, a BDC is subject to restrictions on the amount of warrants, options, restricted stock or rights to purchase shares of capital stock that it may have outstanding at any time. Under the 1940 Act, we may generally only offer warrants provided that (i) the warrants expire by their terms within ten years, (ii) the exercise or conversion price is not less than the current market value at the date of issuance, (iii) our stockholders authorize the proposal to issue such warrants, and our board of directors approves such issuance on the basis that 

&#160; 

the issuance is in the best interests of THL Credit and its stockholders and (iv) if the warrants are accompanied by other securities, the warrants are not separately transferable unless no class of such warrants and the securities accompanying them has been publicly distributed. The 1940 Act also provides that the amount of our voting securities that would result from the exercise of all outstanding warrants, as well as options and rights, at the time of issuance may not exceed 25% of our outstanding voting securities. In particular, the amount of capital stock that would result from the conversion or exercise of all outstanding warrants, options or rights to purchase capital stock cannot exceed 25% of the BDC&#146;s total outstanding shares of capital stock. 

Senior securities 

We are permitted, under specified conditions, to issue multiple classes of indebtedness and one class of stock senior to our common stock if our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least equal to 200% immediately after each such issuance. In addition, while any preferred stock or publicly traded debt securities are outstanding, we must make provisions to prohibit any distribution to our stockholders or the repurchase of such securities or shares unless we meet the applicable asset coverage ratios at the time of the distribution or repurchase. We may also borrow amounts up to 5% of the value of our total assets for temporary or emergency purposes without regard to asset coverage. For a discussion of the risks associated with leverage, see &#147;Risks&#151;Risks related to our operations as a BDC.&#148; 

No-action relief from registration as a commodity pool operator 

We are relying on a no-action letter (the &#147;No-Action Letter&#148;) issued by the staff of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the &#147;CFTC&#148;) as a basis to avoid registration with the CFTC as a commodity pool operator (&#147;CPO&#148;). The No-Action Letter allows an entity to engage in CFTC-regulated transactions (&#147;commodity interest transactions&#148;) that are &#147;bona fide hedging&#148; transactions (as that term is defined and interpreted by the CFTC and its staff), but prohibit an entity from entering into commodity interest transactions if they are non-bona fide hedging transactions, unless immediately after entering such non-bona fide hedging transaction (a) the sum of the amount of initial margin deposits on the entity&#146;s existing futures or swaps positions and option or swaption premiums does not exceed 5% of the market value of the entity&#146;s liquidating value, after taking into account unrealized profits and unrealized losses on any such transactions, or (b) the aggregate net notional value of the entity&#146;s commodity interest transactions would not exceed 100% of the market value of the entity&#146;s liquidating value, after taking into account unrealized profits and unrealized losses on any such transactions. We are required to operate pursuant to these trading restrictions if we intend to continue to rely on the No-Action Letter as a basis to avoid CPO registration. 

Proxy voting policies and procedures 

We have delegated our proxy voting responsibility to THL Credit Advisors. The Proxy Voting Policies and Procedures of THL Credit Advisors are set forth below. The guidelines are reviewed periodically by THL Credit Advisors and our independent directors, and, accordingly, are subject to change. 

Introduction 

THL Credit Advisors is registered as an investment adviser under the Advisers Act. As an investment adviser registered under the Advisers Act, THL Credit Advisors has fiduciary duties to us. As part of this duty, THL Credit Advisors recognizes that it must vote client securities in a timely manner free of conflicts of interest and in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders. THL Credit Advisors&#146; Proxy Voting Policies and Procedures have been formulated to ensure decision-making consistent with these fiduciary duties. 

These policies and procedures for voting proxies for our investment advisory clients are intended to comply with Section 206 of, and Rule 206(4)-6 under, the Advisers Act. 

&#160; 

Proxy policies 

THL Credit Advisors evaluates routine proxy matters, such as proxy proposals, amendments or resolutions on a case-by-case basis. Routine matters are typically proposed by management and THL Credit Advisors will normally support such matters so long as they do not measurably change the structure, management control, or operation of the corporation and are consistent with industry standards as well as the corporate laws of the state of incorporation. 

THL Credit Advisors also evaluates non-routine matters on a case-by-case basis. Non-routine proposals concerning social issues are typically proposed by stockholders who believe that the corporation&#146;s internally adopted policies are ill-advised or misguided. If THL Credit Advisors has determined that management is generally socially responsible, THL Credit Advisors will generally vote against these types of non-routine proposals. Non-routine proposals, to the extent they occur, concerning financial or corporate issues are usually offered by management and seek to change a corporation&#146;s legal, business or financial structure. THL Credit Advisors will generally vote in favor of such proposals provided the position of current stockholders is preserved or enhanced. Non-routine proposals concerning stockholder rights are made regularly by both management and stockholders. They can be generalized as involving issues that transfer or realign board or stockholder voting power. THL Credit Advisors typically would oppose any proposal aimed solely at thwarting potential takeovers by requiring, for example, super-majority approval. At the same time, THL Credit Advisors believes stability and continuity promote profitability. THL Credit Advisors&#146; guidelines in this area seek a middle road and individual proposals will be carefully assessed in the context of their particular circumstances. 

If a vote may involve a material conflict of interest, prior to approving such vote, THL Credit Advisors must consult with its chief compliance officer to determine whether the potential conflict is material and if so, the appropriate method to resolve such conflict. If the conflict is determined not to be material, THL Credit Advisors&#146; employees shall vote the proxy in accordance with THL Credit Advisors&#146; proxy voting policy. 

Proxy voting records 

You may obtain information about how we voted proxies by making a written request for proxy voting information to: 

General Counsel 

THL Credit, Inc. 

100 Federal Street, 31st Floor 

Boston, MA 02110 

Code of ethics 

We have adopted a code of ethics pursuant to Rule 17j-1 under the 1940 Act and we have also approved our investment adviser&#146;s code of ethics under Rule 17j-1 under the 1940 Act and Rule 204A-1 of the Advisers Act. These codes establish procedures for personal investments and restrict certain personal securities transactions. Personnel subject to the code may invest in securities for their personal investment accounts so long as such investments are made in accordance with the code&#146;s requirements. You may read and copy our code of ethics and our code of ethics and business conduct at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, our code of ethics and our code of ethics and business conduct are available on the EDGAR Database on the SEC&#146;s Internet site at http://www.sec.gov and are available on our corporate governance webpage at http://investor.thlcredit.com/governance. 

Privacy Principles 

We are committed to maintaining the privacy of stockholders and to safeguarding our non-public personal information. The following information is provided to help you understand what personal information we collect, how we protect that information and why, in certain cases, we may share information with select other parties. 

&#160; 

Generally, we do not receive any nonpublic personal information relating to our stockholders, although certain nonpublic personal information of our stockholders may become available to us. We do not disclose any nonpublic personal information about our stockholders or former stockholders to anyone, except as permitted by law or as is necessary in order to service stockholder accounts (for example, to a transfer agent or third party administrator). 

We restrict access to nonpublic personal information about our stockholders to our investment adviser&#146;s employees with a legitimate business need for the information. We maintain physical, electronic and procedural safeguards designed to protect the nonpublic personal information of our stockholders. 

Compliance with Corporate Governance Regulations 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the &#147;Sarbanes-Oxley Act&#148;) imposes a wide variety of regulatory requirements on publicly-held companies and their insiders. Many of these requirements affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required us to review our policies and procedures to determine whether we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder. We will continue to monitor our compliance with all future regulations that are adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and will take actions necessary to ensure that we are in compliance therewith. 

In addition, The NASDAQ Global Select Market has adopted various corporate governance requirements as part of its listing standards. We believe we are in compliance with such corporate governance listing standards. We will continue to monitor our compliance with all future listing standards and will take actions necessary to ensure that we are in compliance therewith. 

Other 

We have adopted an investment policy that mirrors the requirements applicable to us as a BDC under the 1940 Act. 

We are subject to periodic examination by the SEC for compliance with the Exchange Act and the 1940 Act. 

We are required to provide and maintain a bond issued by a reputable fidelity insurance company to protect us against larceny and embezzlement. Furthermore, as a BDC, we are prohibited from protecting any director or officer against any liability to us or our stockholders arising from willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of such person&#146;s office. 

We and THL Credit Advisors have adopted and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws, and will review these policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation. We and THL Credit Advisors have designated a chief compliance officer to be responsible for administering the policies and procedures. 

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10:00 am to 3:00 pm. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (202)551-8090. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. 

Our internet address is www.thlcredit.com. We make available free of charge on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

&#160; 

Certain U.S Federal Income Tax Considerations 

We have elected to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. As a RIC, we generally do not have to pay corporate-level federal income taxes on any income that we distribute to our stockholders from our tax earnings and profits. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must, among other things, meet certain source of income and asset diversification requirements (as described below). In addition, in order maintain RIC tax treatment, we must distribute to our stockholders, for each taxable year, at least 90% of our &#147;investment company taxable income,&#148; which is generally our net ordinary income plus the excess, if any, of realized net short-term capital gains over realized net long-term capital losses (the &#147;Annual Distribution Requirement&#148;). 

Taxation as a Regulated Investment Company 

If we: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; maintain our qualification as a RIC; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement, 

then generally we will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portion of our income we distribute (or are deemed to distribute) to stockholders. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on any income or capital gains not distributed (or deemed distributed) to our stockholders. 

In order to maintain our qualification as a RIC for federal income tax purposes, we must, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; continue to qualify as a BDC under the 1940 Act at all times during each taxable year; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; derive in each taxable year at least 90% of our gross income from dividends, interest, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale of stock or other securities, net income from certain &#147;qualified publicly traded partnerships,&#148; or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in such stock or securities (the &#147;90% Income Test&#148;); and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; diversify our holdings so that at the end of each quarter of the taxable year: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; at least 50% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities, securities of other RICs, and other securities if such other securities of any one issuer do not represent more than 5% of the value of our assets or more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of the issuer; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; no more than 25% of the value of our assets is invested in the securities, other than U.S. Government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain &#147;qualified publicly traded partnerships&#148; (the &#147;Diversification Tests&#148;). 

We will be subject to a 4% nondeductible federal excise tax on certain undistributed income unless we distribute in a timely manner an amount at least equal to the sum of (1) 98% of our net ordinary income for each calendar year, (2) 98.2% of our capital gain net income for each calendar year and (3) any income recognized, but not distributed, in preceding years and on which we paid no federal income tax (the &#147;Excise Tax Avoidance Requirement&#148;). We may choose to retain a portion of our ordinary income and/or capital gain net income in any year and pay the 4% U.S. federal excise tax on the retained amounts. For federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments with PIK interest or, in certain cases, increasing interest rates or debt instruments that were issued with warrants), we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is 

&#160; 

received by us in the same taxable year. We may also have to include in income other amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as deferred loan origination fees that are paid after origination of the loan or are paid in non-cash compensation such as warrants or stock. Certain consolidated subsidiaries of the Company are subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes. These taxable entities are not consolidated with the Company for income tax purposes and may generate income tax liabilities or assets from temporary differences in the recognition of items for financial reporting and income tax purposes at the subsidiaries. 

Because any original issue discount or other amounts accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the year of the accrual, we may be required to make a distribution to our stockholders in order to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. We may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. 

We are authorized to borrow funds and to sell assets in order to satisfy distribution requirements. However, under the 1940 Act, we are not permitted to make distributions to our stockholders while our debt obligations and other senior securities are outstanding unless certain &#147;asset coverage&#148; tests are met. Moreover, our ability to dispose of assets to meet our distribution requirements may be limited by (1) the illiquid nature of our portfolio and/or (2) other requirements relating to our status as a RIC, including the Diversification Tests. If we dispose of assets in order to meet the Annual Distribution Requirement or the Excise Tax Avoidance Requirement, we may make such dispositions at times that, from an investment standpoint, are not advantageous. 

Certain of our investment practices may be subject to special and complex federal income tax provisions that may, among other things, (1) treat dividends that would otherwise qualify for the dividends received deduction or constitute qualified dividend income as ineligible for such treatment, (2) disallow, suspend or otherwise limit the allowance of certain losses or deductions, (3) convert lower-taxed long-term capital gain into higher-taxed short-term capital gain or ordinary income, (4) convert an ordinary loss or a deduction into a capital loss (the deductibility of which is more limited), (5) cause us to recognize income or gain without receipt of a corresponding distribution of cash, (6) adversely affect the time as to when a purchase or sale of stock or securities is deemed to occur, (7) adversely alter the characterization of certain complex financial transactions and (8) produce income that will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 90% Income Test. We will monitor our transactions and may make certain tax elections to mitigate the potential adverse effect of these provisions, but there can be no assurance that any adverse effects of these provisions will be mitigated. 

If we purchase shares in a &#147;passive foreign investment company&#148; (a &#147;PFIC&#148;), we may be subject to federal income tax on its allocable share of a portion of any &#147;excess distribution&#148; received on, or any gain from the disposition of, such shares even if our allocable share of such income is distributed as a taxable dividend to its stockholders. Additional charges in the nature of interest generally will be imposed on us in respect of deferred taxes arising from any such excess distribution or gain. If we invest in a PFIC and elect to treat the PFIC as a &#147;qualified electing fund&#148; under the Code (a &#147;QEF&#148;), in lieu of the foregoing requirements, we will be required to include in income each year our proportionate share of the ordinary earnings and net capital gain of the QEF, even if such income is not distributed by the QEF. Alternatively, we may be able to elect to mark-to-market at the end of each taxable year our shares in a PFIC; in this case, we will recognize as ordinary income our allocable share of any increase in the value of such shares, and as ordinary loss our allocable share of any decrease in such value to the extent that any such decrease does not exceed prior increases included in its income. Under either election, we may be required to recognize in a year income in excess of distributions from PFICs and proceeds from dispositions of PFIC stock during that year, and such income will nevertheless be subject to the Annual Distribution Requirement and will be taken into account for purposes of the 4% excise tax. 

&#160; 

