 Item 1. Business. 

Formation of Our Company 

We are a Maryland corporation, formed on May 15, 2013 and commenced operations on June 24, 2015. We have elected to be regulated as a business development company (&#8220;BDC&#8221;) under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the &#8220;1940 Act&#8221;). We are an externally managed, non-diversified, closed-end management investment company that has elected to be taxed for federal income tax purposes beginning with our taxable year ended September 30, 2015, and to qualify annually thereafter, as a regulated investment company (&#8220;RIC&#8221;) under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#8220;Code&#8221;). 

We entered into a stock purchase agreement with Terra Capital Partners, LLC (&#8220;Terra Capital Partners&#8221;), our sponsor and an affiliate of our company. On September 19, 2014, pursuant to a private placement, Terra Capital Partners contributed cash consideration of $125,000 to purchase approximately 11,111 shares of our common stock at $11.25 per share. On October 20, 2014, pursuant to a private placement, Terra Capital Partners contributed an additional $50,000 in cash to purchase approximately 4,445 additional shares of our common stock at $11.25 per share. 

On February 25, 2015, our board of directors (the &#8220;Board&#8221;) determined to change the initial offering price from $10.00 per share to $12.50 per share. As a result, on February 26, 2015, we effected a reverse stock split to account for the change in the offering price since the September and October, 2014 contributions from Terra Capital Partners. As such, all share references and equity transaction pricing elsewhere reflect this reverse stock split. 

On March 2, 2015, we filed a public registration statement on Form N-2 (the &#8220;Registration Statement&#8221;) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;) to offer a minimum of 160,000 shares of common stock and a maximum of 80,000,000 shares of common stock in a continuous, public offering (the &#8220;Offering&#8221;). The SEC declared the Registration Statement effective on April 20, 2015, and we retained Terra Capital Markets, LLC (&#8220;Terra Capital Markets&#8221;), an affiliate of Terra Income Advisors, to serve as the dealer manager of the Offering. As dealer manager, Terra Capital Markets is responsible for marketing our shares being offered pursuant to the Offering. We intend to file post-effective amendments to the Registration Statement that are subject to SEC review to allow us to continue the Offering for at least two years from the date of the effectiveness of the Registration Statement. 

On May 1, 2015, Terra Capital Partners contributed cash of $275,000 to purchase approximately 24,444 additional shares from the Offering at a per share price of $11.25, which price represents the public offering price of $12.50 per share, net of selling commissions, broker-dealer fees and dealer manager fees. This contribution, in addition to the initial capital contributions described above, fulfilled Terra Capital Partners&#8217; commitment to contribute total seed capitalization of $450,000. 

On June 24, 2015, we successfully reached our minimum escrow requirement and officially commenced our operations by receiving gross proceeds of $2,000,000 (the &#8220;Minimum Offering Requirement&#8221;). Since commencing operations, and through November 21, 2016 , we have sold a total of 4,514,103 &#32;shares of common stock for total gross proceeds of approximately $54.7 million , excluding shares pursuant to our distribution reinvestment plan (&#8220;DRIP&#8221;). The proceeds from the issuance of common stock are presented in our statements of changes in net assets and statements of cash flows. 

Overview of Our Business 

We do not currently have any employees and do not expect to have any employees. Services necessary for our business are provided by individuals who are employees of our advisor, Terra Income Advisors, LLC (&#8220;Terra Income Advisors&#8221;), or by individuals who were contracted by us or by Terra Income Advisors to work on behalf of us pursuant to the terms of the investment advisory and administrative services agreement between us and Terra Income Advisors (the &#8220;Investment Advisory Agreement&#8221;). Terra Income Advisors is responsible for sourcing potential investments, conducting due diligence on prospective investments, analyzing investment opportunities, structuring investments and monitoring our portfolio on an ongoing basis according to asset allocation and other guidelines set by our Board. Terra Income Advisors is registered as investment adviser with the SEC. We have elected to be taxed for federal income tax purposes for our taxable year in which we commence operations, and intend to qualify annually thereafter, as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. 

The level of our investment activity depends on many factors, including the amount of debt and equity capital available to prospective borrowers, the level of refinancing activity for such companies, the availability of credit to finance transactions, the general economic environment and the competitive environment for the types of investments we make. Based on prevailing market conditions and exclusive of the restrictions imposed by the RIC diversification requirement, we anticipate that we will invest the proceeds from each subscription closing generally within 90 days of such closing. The precise timing will depend on the availability of investment opportunities that are consistent with our investment objective and strategies. Any distributions we make prior to the time that all capital raised has been deployed may be substantially lower than the distributions that we expect to pay when our portfolio is fully invested. 

1 &#32; 

Our Investment Adviser 

Our investment activities are externally managed by Terra Income Advisors, a private investment firm affiliated with us, pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement, under the oversight of the Board, a majority of whom are independent. Terra Income Advisors is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the &#8220;Advisers Act&#8221;). 

Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, we have agreed to pay Terra Income Advisors a base management fee as well as an incentive fee based on our investment performance. Also, we have agreed to pay selling commissions, broker-dealer fees, and a dealer manager fee, and to reimburse Terra Income Advisors for our organization and offering expenses up to a maximum amount equal to 1.5% of the gross proceeds from the Offering. Terra Income Advisors will bear all organization and offering expenses in excess of this amount. 

The management of our investment portfolio is the responsibility of Terra Income Advisors and its executive officers. The investment committee of Terra Income Advisors will approve each new investment that we make. Our Board, including a majority of independent directors, oversees and monitors our investment performance and, beginning with the second anniversary of the date of the Investment Advisory Agreement, our Board will annually review the compensation we pay to our adviser and its performance during the preceding 12 months to determine if the compensation paid to our adviser is reasonable in relation to the nature and quality of the services performed, and that the provisions of the Investment Advisory Agreement are carried out. 

About Terra Capital Partners 

Terra Capital Partners, the parent company of Terra Income Advisors, is a real estate finance and investment company based in New York City, and has engaged in the origination and management of debt and equity investments in approximately 367 &#32;properties of all major property types throughout the United States since it was formed in 2001 and commenced operations in 2002. These investments have been made in 35 &#32;states and have been secured by approximately 16.3 million &#32;square feet of office properties, 3.4 million &#32;square feet of retail properties, 4.2 million &#32;square feet of industrial properties, 3,425 &#32;hotel rooms and 22,645 &#32;apartment units. The value of the properties underlying these investments was approximately $6.6 billion &#32;based on appraised values as of the closing dates. Terra Capital Partners and its affiliates have originated all the loans on approximately 326 &#32;properties with an appraised value of approximately $5.2 billion &#32;held by its previous affiliated funds, which are described below in &#8220;Terra Private Funds,&#8221; and have suffered no monetary defaults or foreclosures on these loans. As of the date of this Form 10-K, Terra Capital Partners and its affiliates employed 33 &#32;persons. 

Terra Capital Partners is led by the chairman of our Board, Simon J. Mild&#233;, and our chief executive officer, Bruce D. Batkin, and employs a team of highly experienced real estate, finance and securities professionals with an average of over 25 years of experience in global real estate transactions. The management of Terra Capital Partners has broad-based, long-term relationships with major financial institutions, property owners and commercial real estate service providers. The Terra Capital Partners management personnel have worked together as a team engaged in the business of making investments in commercial real estate loans, preferred equity investments and certain real estate-related debt securities of private companies for approximately ten years, building on their prior experience in commercial real estate investment, finance, development and asset management with many of the top international real estate and investment banking firms, including Jones Lang Wootton (formerly Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated and now JLL), Merrill Lynch &#38; Co., Inc., Donaldson, Lufkin &#38; Jenrette Securities Corporation (now Credit Suisse (USA) Inc.) and ABN Amro Bank N.V. We believe that the active and substantial ongoing participation of Terra Capital Partners in the real estate finance market, and the depth of experience and disciplined investment approach of its management team will allow Terra Income Advisors to successfully execute our investment strategy. 

About Terra Private Funds 

Through its affiliates, Terra Capital Partners has managed the operations of multiple private real estate investment funds (collectively the &#8220;Terra private funds&#8221;), which were formed to originate, acquire and manage real estate-related loans, including mezzanine loans, first and second mortgage loans, subordinated mortgage loans, bridge loans, preferred equity investments and other loans related to high quality commercial real estate in the United States. 

Terra Capital Partners was formed in 2001 and commenced operations in 2002 and acted as investment manager for the first Terra private fund in 2003. As a result, Terra Capital Partners has extensive experience in originating, acquiring and managing investments of the type we intend to make, in all types of real estate financial markets and all phases of the economic cycle. We intend to capitalize on the expertise that Terra Capital Partners has developed during economic expansions, peaks, contractions, troughs and recoveries. We will rely on the experience that its management has in determining when to enter and exit certain real estate-related investments based on market and economic conditions and future economic prospects. 

The Terra private funds may be categorized as the pre-2007 Terra private funds and post-2007 Terra private funds. The post-2007 Terra private funds are Terra Secured Income Fund, LLC, Terra Secured Income Fund 2, LLC, Terra Secured Income 

2 &#32; 

Fund 3, LLC, Terra Secured Income Fund 4, LLC, Terra Secured Income Fund 5, LLC and Terra Secured Income Fund 5 International (collectively, the &#8220;Terra Income Funds&#8221;). 

Investment Objectives and Strategy 

Our primary investment objectives are to pay attractive and stable cash distributions and to preserve, protect and return capital contributions to stockholders. Our investment strategy is to use substantially all of the proceeds of the Offering to originate and manage a diversified portfolio consisting of (i) commercial real estate loans to U.S. companies qualifying as &#8220;eligible portfolio companies&#8221; under the 1940 Act, including mezzanine loans, first and second lien mortgage loans, subordinated mortgage loans, bridge loans and other commercial real estate-related loans related to or secured by high quality commercial real estate in the United States and (ii) preferred equity real estate investments in U.S. companies qualifying as &#8220;eligible portfolio companies&#8221; under the 1940 Act. We may also purchase select commercial real estate-related debt securities, such as commercial mortgage-backed securities or collateralized debt obligations; provided, however, that we will select all investments after considering its ability to qualify to be taxed as a RIC. 

We will seek to structure, acquire and maintain a portfolio of investments that generate a stable income stream to enable us to pay attractive and consistent cash distributions to our stockholders. We intend to directly structure, underwrite and originate most of our investments, as we believe that doing so will provide us with the best opportunity to invest in loans that satisfy our standards, establish a direct relationship with the borrower and optimize the terms of our investments; however, we may acquire existing loans from the originating lender should our adviser determine such an investment is in our best interest. We may hold our investments until their scheduled maturity dates or may sell them if we are able to command favorable terms for their disposition. We may also seek to realize growth in the value of our investments by timing their sale to maximize value. We believe that our investment strategy will allow us to pay attractive and stable cash distributions to our stockholders and to preserve, protect and return our stockholders&#8217; capital contributions, consistent with our investment objectives. 

Terra Income Advisors&#8217; management team has extensive experience in originating, acquiring, structuring, managing and disposing of real estate-related loans similar to the types of loans in which we intend to invest. In order to meet our investment objectives, we will generally seek to follow the following investment criteria: 

&#8226; 

focus primarily on the origination of new loans; 

&#8226; 

focus on loans backed by properties in the United States; 

&#8226; 

invest primarily in fixed rate rather than floating rate loans, but we reserve the right to make debt investments that will bear interest at a floating rate; 

&#8226; 

invest in loans expected to be repaid within one to five years; 

&#8226; 

maximize current income; 

&#8226; 

lend to creditworthy borrowers; 

&#8226; 

lend on properties that are expected to generate sustainable cash flow; 

&#8226; 

maximize diversification by property type, geographic location, tenancy and borrower; 

&#8226; 

source off-market transactions; and 

&#8226; 

hold investments until maturity unless, in our adviser&#8217;s judgment, market conditions warrant earlier disposition. 

While we expect that the size of each of our investments will generally range between $3 million and $20 million, our investments will ultimately be at the discretion Terra Income Advisors, subject to oversight by our Board. Prior to raising substantial capital, we may make smaller investments and invest a larger portion of our capital base in cash and cash items (including receivables) and U.S. government securities to enable us to acquire assets that meet our desired investment profile and to meet certain RIC qualification requirements under the Code. 

To enhance our returns, we intend to employ leverage as market conditions permit and at the discretion of our Terra Income Advisors, but in no event will leverage employed exceed 50% of the value of our assets, as required by the 1940 Act. See Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Debt Financing&#8221; for a discussion of the risks inherent in employing leverage. 

Business Strategy 

In executing our business strategy, we believe that we will benefit from Terra Income Advisors&#8217; affiliation with Terra Capital Partners, given its strong track record and extensive experience and capabilities as real estate investment manager and sponsor of the Terra Income Funds. We believe the following core strengths will enable us to realize our investment objectives and provide us with significant competitive advantages in the marketplace, and attractive risk-adjusted returns to our stockholders: 

3 &#32; 

Significant Experience of Our Management Team 

Terra Capital Partners has a highly experienced management team with extensive expertise in investment, financing and managing commercial real estate loans and related investments, including mortgages. Each of the members of our senior management team, which includes Messrs. Mild&#233; and Batkin, the co-founders of Terra Capital Partners, has over 25 years in the commercial real estate investment industry with significant experience in managing mortgage-related assets in favorable and unfavorable economic cycles. We believe our business will benefit from the knowledge and industry contacts these experienced and sophisticated executives have gained through numerous business cycles and investment conditions. 

Significant Experience of Terra Capital Partners 

Terra Capital Partners provides Terra Income Advisors with many of its key investment personnel. Terra Capital Partners has developed a reputation within the commercial real estate loan investment industry as a leading, sophisticated real estate investment and asset management company with a strong track record in underwriting and managing approximately $6.6 billion &#32;in commercial real estate and real estate-related loans, preferred equity investments and investments with similar characteristics that meet the attributes of the assets that we intend to acquire. We believe we will benefit from the depth and disciplined approach Terra Capital Partners brings to its underwriting and investment management processes to structure and manage investments prudently. 

Disciplined Investment Process 

We will follow a disciplined investment origination, underwriting and selection process. We will follow an investment approach focused on long-term credit performance and capital protection. This investment approach involves a multi-phase evaluation, structuring and monitoring process for each potential investment opportunity. After investment, our management team focuses on a thorough review of our investments for potential credit quality deterioration and potential proactive steps, including making available significant managerial assistance as required by the 1940 Act, to mitigate any losses to our invested capital. We believe this approach will maximize current income and minimize capital loss. Considering the significant opportunities available in the assets we intend to acquire, we believe that we can be selective with regard to evaluation of our potential portfolio companies and partners to make those investments that we deem to be the most attractive. 

Portfolio Construction 

We intend to construct a portfolio that is diversified by property type, geographic location and borrower. Although we expect to hold our assets for the duration of the expected five-year term of our company, we may decide to sell assets prior to the end of the term in order to maximize stockholder returns. 

We will construct our portfolio based on our evaluation of the impact of each potential investment on the risk/reward mix in our existing portfolio. By selecting those assets that we believe will maximize stockholder returns while minimizing investment-specific risk, we believe we can build and manage an investment portfolio that provides superior value to stockholders over time, both in absolute terms and relative to other commercial real estate loan and real estate-related investment vehicles. 

Superior Analytical Tools 

We believe that our management team possesses the superior analytical tools to evaluate each potential investment through the balanced use of qualitative and quantitative analysis, which helps us manage risk on an individual investment and portfolio basis. We rely on a variety of analytical tools and models to assess our investments and risk management. We also conduct an extensive evaluation of the numerous factors that affect our potential investments. These factors include: 

&#8226; 

Top-down review of both the current macroeconomic environment generally and the real estate and commercial real estate loan market specifically; 

&#8226; 

Detailed evaluation of the real estate industry and its sectors; 

&#8226; 

Bottom-up review of each individual investment&#8217;s attributes and risk/reward profile relative to the macroeconomic environment; 

&#8226; 

Quantitative cash flow analysis and impact of the potential investment on our portfolio; and 

&#8226; 

Ongoing management and monitoring of all investments to assess changing conditions on our original investment assumptions. 

Extensive Strategic Relationships 

Our management team maintains extensive relationships within the real estate industry, including real estate developers, institutional real estate sponsors and investors, real estate funds, investment and commercial banks, private equity funds, asset originators and broker-dealers, as well as the capital and financing markets generally. We believe these relationships enhance our ability to source and finance our investments as well as mitigate their credit and interest rate risk. We intend to leverage the many 

4 &#32; 

years of experience and well-established contacts of our management team, and to use these relationships for the benefit of our stockholders. 

Market Opportunity 

General 

Commercial real estate is a capital-intensive business that relies heavily on the availability of credit to develop, acquire, maintain and refinance commercial properties. The turmoil in the U.S. mortgage market that commenced in 2008 has diminished the availability of credit for commercial real estate from traditional providers of capital to commercial real estate borrowers. Although credit availability has increased over the past several years, we believe that a more risk-averse credit culture, tighter underwriting standards, changes in the regulatory environment and the high number of existing loans on overleveraged properties, many of which were acquired at premium prices prior to the 2008 downturn, will continue to constrain the lending capacity of large commercial banks and traditional providers of capital. Many of these pre-2008 loans have ten-year terms, creating an impending &#8220;wall&#8221; of maturities that must be refinanced or repaid in the coming years. In the face of this constrained lending capacity, a large volume of commercial real estate loans originated at the market peak will mature over the next several years. The confluence of these two conditions &#8212; reduced lending by traditional lenders and an increased volume of maturing loans requiring refinancing proceeds &#8212; has created opportunities for alternative lenders like us. 

Those financial institutions still willing to provide capital may not provide sufficient proceeds to meet borrowers&#8217; needs, and many loans that previously would have been provided by a single lender often will require multiple lenders. This provides us, as an alternative lender, with an immediate opportunity to augment loans provided by traditional lenders with subordinated debt and preferred equity &#8212; often at lower property valuations, lower loan-to-value ratios and higher returns than prior to the economic crisis. We believe this opportunity will continue for the foreseeable future. 

Reductions in the supply of traditional commercial real estate loans, along with the failures or retrenchment of many banks and financial institutions that historically satisfied much of the demand for debt financing, as well as current lending practices that are more conservative than those prevailing prior to the economic crisis (despite the recovery in real estate fundamentals), have created a compelling opportunity to originate attractively structured and priced commercial real estate financing. 

Mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments today are financing portions of the real estate capital structure previously funded by lower cost senior mortgage financing. Mezzanine loans generally take the form of a subordinated loan secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of an entity that owns commercial real estate, and generally finance the acquisition, refinancing, rehabilitation or construction of commercial real estate. These loans are subordinate to both first and subordinated mortgage loans but provide the potential for superior risk-adjusted returns. Mezzanine loans may be either short- or long-term and may be fixed or floating. We believe the opportunity to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns through investment in mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments as well as certain first mortgage loans and bridge loans will continue for the foreseeable future, given the prospect of impending mortgage maturities and relatively limited sources of mortgage financing. 

One of our competitive advantages relative to many existing real estate investment vehicles is our management team&#8217;s sale of 100% of its investment management interests in June 2007, prior to the credit crisis. Thus, neither Terra Capital Partners nor any of its affiliates is burdened by a &#8220;pre-credit crisis legacy portfolio&#8221; of lower-return or problem assets. In comparison, management teams with a pre-credit crisis legacy portfolio are often distracted by asset management, workouts, foreclosures and litigation. We believe this competitive advantage, along with our management team&#8217;s experience, track record, judgment and capabilities, will facilitate our ability to execute our investment strategy and benefit from the current market opportunities. 

Targeted Investments 

Commercial Real Estate-Related Loans 

We intend to originate and manage mezzanine loans, first and second lien mortgage loans, subordinated mortgage loans, bridge loans and other commercial real estate-related loans, including loans related to or secured by high quality commercial real estate in the United States, such as office buildings, warehouses, shopping centers, apartment properties and hotels. We expect to directly structure, underwrite and originate most of our investments. By originating loans directly, we will be able to structure and underwrite loans that satisfy our standards, establish a direct relationship with the borrower and optimize the terms of our investments. We will use conservative underwriting criteria, and our underwriting process will involve comprehensive financial, structural, operational and legal due diligence to assess the risks of investments so that we can optimize pricing and structuring. We expect that most of our loans will have maturities of five years or less, and we will limit those loans with maturities longer than five years to those that we believe are relatively liquid. Unlike the residential loan market, the commercial real estate-related loan market is not supported by governmental or government-sponsored agencies, making borrowers heavily dependent on banks or alternative providers of capitals such as us. As a result, we believe there will be sufficient demand for the capital we can provide to produce favorable risk-adjusted returns for our stockholders. 

5 &#32; 

Mezzanine Loans 

When commercial banks or other alternative commercial real estate lenders provide capital for a senior loan, they, or borrowers directly, may seek a lender to provide an additional layer of financing known as a mezzanine loan. This loan is junior to the senior mortgage loan in terms of priority but may have other liens subordinate to it. Terra Capital Partners specializes in providing this type of financing to creditworthy borrowers and as a means of augmenting the senior commercial real estate loan provided by a traditional commercial real estate lender. Terra Capital Partners is a preferred mezzanine lender to many traditional commercial real estate lenders because of its extensive real estate experience in the event of problems in the borrower&#8217;s operations or the underlying real estate. We intend to originate or acquire mezzanine loans backed by high quality properties in the United States that have loan-to-value ratios generally ranging from 60% to 85% and which otherwise meet our investment criteria. We may own such mezzanine loans directly or we may hold a participation in a mezzanine loan or sub-participation in a mezzanine loan. We expect to invest in both senior and junior positions in a mezzanine loan. 

Preferred Equity Investments 

Preferred equity investments are investments in preferred membership interests in entities that own commercial real estate and generally finance the acquisition, refinancing, rehabilitation or construction of commercial real estate. We may also participate with other entities in these investments through joint ventures, partnerships and other types of common ownership or participations, subject to the limitations imposed by the 1940 Act. 

Other Commercial Real Estate-Related Debt Securities 

We may also invest in commercial real estate-related debt securities such as commercial mortgage-backed securities (&#8220;CMBS&#8221;) and collateralized debt obligations (&#8220;CDOs&#8221;), as well as any other debt security that we believe will provide us with a favorable risk-adjusted return. CMBS are securities issued by a trust that evidence interests in, or are secured by, a single commercial mortgage loan or a partial or entire pool of commercial mortgage loans. CDOs are multiple class debt securities, or bonds, secured by pools of assets, such as CMBS or mezzanine loans. CDOs are typically issued in multiple tranches with varying risk/reward attributes in which some classes are subordinate to others in priority of payment. Both CMBS and CDOs are subject to all of the same risks as the underlying real estate assets. 

Regulation 

We have elected to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. As with other companies regulated by the 1940 Act, a BDC must adhere to certain substantive regulatory requirements. The 1940 Act contains prohibitions and restrictions relating to transactions between BDCs and their affiliates (including any investment advisers or sub-advisers), principal underwriters and affiliates of those affiliates or underwriters and requires that a majority of the directors be persons other than &#8220;interested persons,&#8221; as that term is defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or to withdraw our election as, a BDC unless approved by a majority of our outstanding voting securities. 

&#8220;A majority of the outstanding voting securities&#8221; of a company is defined under the 1940 Act as the lesser of: (i) 67% or more of the voting securities of such company present at a meeting if the holders of more than 50% of the company&#8217;s outstanding voting securities are present or represented by proxy; or (ii) more than 50% of the outstanding voting securities of such company. 

Qualifying Assets 

Under the 1940 Act, a BDC may not acquire any asset other than assets of the type listed in Section 55(a) of the 1940 Act, which are referred to as qualifying assets, unless, at the time the acquisition is made, qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the company&#8217;s total assets. The principal categories of qualifying assets relevant to our business are the following: 

1. 

Securities purchased in transactions not involving any public offering from the issuer of such securities, which issuer (subject to certain limited exceptions) is an eligible portfolio company, or from any person who is, or has been during the preceding 13 months, an affiliated person of an eligible portfolio company, or from any other person, subject to such rules as may be prescribed by the SEC. An eligible portfolio company is defined in the 1940 Act as any issuer which: 

a. 

is organized under the laws of, and has its principal place of business in, the United States; 

b. 

is not an investment company (other than a small business investment company wholly owned by the BDC) or a company that would be an investment company but for certain exclusions under the 1940 Act; and 

c. 

satisfies any of the following: 

i. 

does not have any class of securities that is traded on a national securities exchange; 

ii. 

has a class of securities listed on a national securities exchange, but has an aggregate market value of outstanding voting and non-voting common equity of less than $250 million; 

6 &#32; 

iii. 

is controlled by a BDC or a group of companies including a BDC and the BDC has an affiliated person who is a director of the eligible portfolio company; 

iv. 

is a small and solvent company having total assets of not more than $4 million and capital and surplus of not less than $2 million; or 

v. 

meets such other criteria as may be established by the SEC. 

2. 

Securities of any eligible portfolio company that we control. 

3. 

Securities purchased in a private transaction from a U.S. issuer that is not an investment company or from an affiliated person of the issuer, or in transactions incident thereto, if the issuer is in bankruptcy and subject to reorganization or if the issuer, immediately prior to the purchase of its securities, was unable to meet its obligations as they came due without material assistance other than conventional lending or financing arrangements. 

4. 

Securities of an eligible portfolio company purchased from any person in a private transaction if there is no ready market for such securities and we already own 60% of the outstanding equity of the eligible portfolio company. 

5. 

Securities received in exchange for or distributed on or with respect to securities described in (1) through (4) above, or pursuant to the exercise of warrants or rights relating to such securities. 

6. 

Cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities or high-quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment. 

Control, as defined by the 1940 Act, is presumed to exist where a BDC beneficially owns more than 25% of the outstanding voting securities of the portfolio company. 

In addition, a BDC must have been organized and have its principal place of business in the U.S. and must be operated for the purpose of making investments in the types of securities in eligible portfolio companies, or in other securities that are consistent with its purpose as a BDC. 

Managerial Assistance to Portfolio Companies 

In order to count portfolio securities as qualifying assets for the purpose of the 70% test, we must either control the issuer of the securities or must offer to make available to the issuer of the securities (other than small and solvent companies described above) significant managerial assistance; except that, where we purchase such securities in conjunction with one or more other persons acting together, one of the other persons in the group may make available such managerial assistance. Making available significant managerial assistance means, among other things, any arrangement whereby the BDC, through its directors, officers or employees, offers to provide, and, if accepted, does so provide, significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations or business objectives and policies of a portfolio company. 

Terra Income Advisors or its affiliates may provide such managerial assistance on our behalf to portfolio companies that request this assistance, recognizing that our involvement with each investment will vary based on factors including the size of the company, the nature of our investment, the company&#8217;s overall stage of development and our relative position in the capital structure. We may receive fees for these services. 

Temporary Investments 

Pending investment in other types of &#8220;qualifying assets,&#8221; as described above, our investments may consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities or high-quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment, which we refer to, collectively, as temporary investments, so that 70% of our assets are qualifying assets. Typically, we will invest in U.S. Treasury bills or in repurchase agreements, provided that such agreements are fully collateralized by cash or securities issued by the U.S. government or its agencies. A repurchase agreement involves the purchase by an investor, such as us, of a specified security and the simultaneous agreement by the seller to repurchase it at an agreed-upon future date and at a price that is greater than the purchase price by an amount that reflects an agreed-upon interest rate. There is no percentage restriction on the proportion of our assets that may be invested in such repurchase agreements. However, if more than 25% of our total assets constitute repurchase agreements from a single counterparty, we would not meet the asset diversification requirements in order to qualify as a RIC for U.S. income tax purposes. Thus, we do not intend to enter into repurchase agreements with a single counterparty in excess of this limit. Terra Income Advisors will monitor the creditworthiness of the counterparties with which we enter into repurchase agreement transactions. 

7 &#32; 

Indebtedness and Senior Securities 

As a BDC, we are permitted, under specified conditions, to issue multiple classes of indebtedness and one class of stock senior to our common stock if our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least equal to 200% immediately after each such issuance. In addition, while any senior securities remain outstanding, we must generally make provisions to prohibit any distribution to our stockholders or the repurchase of such securities or stock unless we meet the applicable asset coverage ratios at the time of the distribution or repurchase. We may also borrow amounts up to 5% of the value of our total assets for temporary or emergency purposes without regard to asset coverage. For a discussion of the risks associated with leverage, see Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Debt Financing&#8221; and Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Business Development Companies.&#8221; 

Common Stock 

We will generally not be able to issue and sell our common stock at a price per share, after deducting selling commissions, broker-dealer fees, and dealer manager fees, that is below our net asset value (&#8220;NAV&#8221;) per share. See Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risk Related to Business Development Companies &#8212; Regulations governing our operation as a BDC and RIC will affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise, additional capital or borrow for investment purposes, which may have a negative effect on our growth.&#8221; We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current NAV of our common stock if our Board determines that such sale is in our best interests and that of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our Board, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). We may generally issue new shares of our common stock at a price below NAV per share in rights offerings to existing stockholders, in payment of dividends and in certain other limited circumstances, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. 

Co-Investments 

As a BDC, we are subject to certain regulatory restrictions in making our investments. For example, we may be prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our Board who are not interested persons and, in some cases, prior approval by the SEC. Specifically, we generally are not permitted to co-invest with certain entities affiliated with Terra Income Advisors in transactions originated by Terra Income Advisors or its affiliates unless we obtain an exemptive order from the SEC or co-invest alongside Terra Income Advisors or its respective affiliates in accordance with existing regulatory guidance and the allocation policies of Terra Income Advisors and its affiliates, as applicable. However, we are permitted to, and may, co-invest in syndicated deals and secondary loan market transactions where price is the only negotiated point. The SEC has granted us exemptive relief permitting us, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, to co-invest in certain privately negotiated investment transactions with certain affiliates of Terra Income Advisors, including the Terra Income Funds, Terra Property Trust, and any future BDC or closed-end management investment company that is registered under the 1940 Act and is advised by Terra Income Advisors or its affiliated investment advisers (the &#8220;Co-Investment Affiliates&#8221;). However, we will be prohibited from engaging in certain transactions with our affiliates even under the terms of this exemptive order. We believe this relief will not only enhance our ability to further our investment objectives and strategy, but may also increase favorable investment opportunities for us, in part by allowing us to participate in larger investments, together with our Co-Investment Affiliates, than would be available to us if we had not obtained such relief. 

Code of Ethics 

As required by the 1940 Act, we and Terra Income Advisors have each adopted a code of ethics pursuant to Rule 17j-1 under the 1940 Act that, among other things, establishes procedures for personal investments and restricts certain personal securities transactions. Personnel subject to each code may invest in securities for their personal investment accounts, including securities that may be purchased or held by us, so long as such investments are made in accordance with the code&#8217;s requirements. 

Compliance Policies and Procedures 

As a BDC, we and Terra Income Advisors have each adopted and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws and are required to review these compliance policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation. Our chief compliance officer and the chief compliance officer of Terra Income Advisors are responsible for administering these policies and procedures. 

Proxy Voting Policies and Procedures 

We have delegated our proxy voting responsibility to Terra Income Advisors. The proxy voting policies and procedures of Terra Income Advisors are set forth below. The guidelines are reviewed periodically by Terra Income Advisors and our disinterested directors, and, accordingly, are subject to change. For purposes of these Proxy Voting Policies and Procedures described below, &#8220;we&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; and &#8220;us&#8221; refers to Terra Income Advisors. 

8 &#32; 

Proxy Policies 

As an investment adviser registered under the Advisers Act, we have a fiduciary duty to act solely in the best interests of our clients. As part of this duty, we recognize that we must vote client securities in a timely manner free of conflicts of interest and in the best interests of our clients. 

These policies and procedures for voting proxies for our investment advisory clients are intended to comply with Section 206 of, and Rule 206(4)-6 under, the Advisers Act. 

We vote proxies relating to our portfolio securities in the best interests of our clients&#8217; stockholders. We review on a case-by-case basis each proposal submitted to a stockholder vote to determine its impact on the portfolio securities held by our clients. Although we generally vote against proposals that may have a negative impact on our clients&#8217; portfolio securities, we may vote for such a proposal if there exist compelling long-term reasons to do so. 

Our proxy voting decisions are made by the senior officers who are responsible for monitoring each of our client&#8217;s investments. To ensure that our vote is not the product of a conflict of interest, we require that: (i) anyone involved in the decision making process disclose to our Chief Compliance Officer any potential conflict that he or she is aware of and any contact that he or she has had with any interested party regarding a proxy vote; and (ii) employees involved in the decision making process or vote administration are prohibited from revealing how we intend to vote on a proposal in order to reduce any attempted influence from interested parties. 

Proxy Voting Records 

Investors may obtain information, without charge, regarding how Terra Income Advisors voted proxies with respect to our portfolio securities by making a written request for proxy voting information to: Chief Compliance Officer, Michael S. Cardello. 

Other 

As a BDC, we will be periodically examined by the SEC for compliance with applicable securities laws and related regulations. 

We are required to provide and maintain a bond issued by a reputable fidelity insurance company to protect us against larceny and embezzlement. Furthermore, as a BDC, we are prohibited from protecting any director or officer against any liability to us or our stockholders arising from willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of such person&#8217;s office. 

Available Information 

We are required to file with or submit to the SEC annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information meeting the informational requirements of the Exchange Act. We maintain a website at http://www.terrfund6.com , on which we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and investors should not consider information contained on our website to be part of this annual report on Form 10-K or any other report we file with the SEC. Investors may also inspect and copy these reports, proxy statements and other information, as well as our registration statement and related exhibits and schedules, at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information filed electronically by us with the SEC, which are available on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. &#32;Copies of these reports, proxy and information statements and other information may be obtained, after paying a duplicating fee, by electronic request at the following e-mail address: publicinfo@sec.gov, or by writing the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Section, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. 

9 &#32; 

