 Item 1. Business 

Corporate History: 

Vertex Energy, Inc. (the &#8220; Company, &#8221; &#8220; we, &#8221; &#8220; us, &#8221; and &#8220; Vertex &#8221;) was formed as a Nevada corporation on May 14, 2008. Pursuant to an Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger dated May 19, 2008, by and between Vertex Holdings, L.P. (formerly Vertex Energy, L.P.), a Texas limited partnership (&#8220; Holdings &#8221;), us, World Waste Technologies, Inc., a California corporation (&#8220; WWT &#8221; or &#8220; World Waste &#8221;), Vertex Merger Sub, LLC, a California limited liability company and our wholly-owned subsidiary (&#8220; Merger Subsidiary &#8221;), and Benjamin P. Cowart, our Chief Executive Officer, as agent for our shareholders (as amended from time to time, the &#8220; Merger Agreement &#8221;). Effective on April 16, 2009, World Waste merged with and into Merger Subsidiary, with Merger Subsidiary continuing as the surviving corporation and becoming our wholly-owned subsidiary (the &#8220; Merger &#8221;). In connection with the Merger, (i) each outstanding share of World Waste common stock was cancelled and exchanged for 0.10 shares of our common stock; (ii) each outstanding share of World Waste Series A preferred stock was cancelled and exchanged for 0.4062 shares of our Series A preferred stock; and (iii) each outstanding share of World Waste Series B preferred stock was cancelled and exchanged for 11.651 shares of our Series A preferred stock. 

Additionally, as a result of the Merger, as the successor entity of World Waste, we assumed World Waste&#8217;s filing obligations with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our common stock began trading on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board under the symbol &#8220; VTNR.OB &#8221; effective May 4, 2009. Subsequently, effective February 13, 2013, our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol &#8220; VTNR &#8221;. Finally, as a result of the Merger, the common stock of World Waste was effectively reversed one for ten (10) as a result of the exchange ratios set forth in the Merger, and unless otherwise noted, the impact of such effective reverse stock split, created by the exchange ratio set forth above, is retroactively reflected throughout this Report. 

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220; SEC &#8221;) via EDGAR. Our SEC filings are available free of charge to the public at our website, www.vertexenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our website includes information which we do not desire to incorporate by reference into this filing. 

Material Acquisitions 

Effective as of August 31, 2012, we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interests of Vertex Acquisition Sub, LLC (&#8220; Acquisition Sub &#8221;), a special purpose entity consisting of substantially all of the assets of Holdings and real-estate properties of B &#38; S Cowart Family L.P. (&#8220; B&#38;S LP &#8221; and the &#8220; Acquisition &#8221;). Prior to closing the Acquisition, Holdings contributed to Acquisition Sub substantially all of its assets and liabilities relating to the business of transporting, storing, processing and re-refining petroleum products, crudes and used lubricants, including all of the outstanding equity interests in Holdings&#8217; wholly-owned operating subsidiaries, Cedar Marine Terminals, L.P. (&#8220; CMT &#8221;); Crossroad Carriers, L.P. (&#8220; Crossroad &#8221;); Vertex Recovery, L.P. (&#8220; Vertex Recovery &#8221;); and H&#38;H Oil, L.P. (&#8220; H&#38;H Oil &#8221;) and B&#38;S LP contributed real estate associated with the operations of H&#38;H Oil. 

&#8226; 

Cedar Marine Terminals, L.P. &#32;operates a 19-acre bulk liquid storage facility on the Houston Ship Channel. The terminal serves as a truck-in, barge-out facility and provides throughput terminal operations. Cedar Marine Terminals is also the site of our proprietary, patented, Thermal Chemical Extraction Process (&#8220; TCEP &#8221;) (described below). 

&#8226; 

Crossroad Carriers, L.P . is a third-party common carrier that provides transportation and logistical services for liquid petroleum products, as well as other hazardous materials and product streams. 

&#8226; 

Vertex Recovery L.P. is a generator solutions company for the recycling and collection of used oil and oil-related residual materials from large regional and national customers throughout the U.S. and Canada. It facilitates its services through a network of independent recyclers and franchise collectors. 

&#8226; 

H&#38;H Oil, L.P . collects and recycles used oil and residual materials from customers based in Austin, Baytown, San Antonio and Corpus Christi, Texas. 

Benjamin P. Cowart, our Chief Executive Officer, President, Chairman and largest shareholder directly or indirectly owned a 77% interest in Holdings and a 100% interest in B&#38;S LP. Additionally, Chris Carlson, our Chief Financial Officer, owned a 10% interest in Holdings. 

We had numerous relationships and related-party transactions with Holdings and its subsidiaries prior to closing the Acquisition, including, but not limited to, our lease of a storage facility, our subletting of office space, and agreements to operate 

the TCEP facility and to transport and store feedstock and end products. The closing of the Acquisition eliminated these related party transactions. The description of our operations below reflects the closing of the Acquisition, unless otherwise stated or the discussion requires otherwise. 

Effective October 1, 2013, Vertex acquired a 51% interest in E-Source Holdings, LLC (&#8220; E-Source &#8221;), a company that leases and operates a facility located in Houston, Texas, and provides dismantling, demolition, decommission and marine salvage services at industrial facilities throughout the Gulf Coast. E-Source also owns and operates a fleet of trucks and other vehicles used for shipping and handling equipment and scrap materials. E-Source falls under our Recovery division, as described below. Effective January 1, 2014, the Company purchased an additional 19% ownership interest in E-Source. On September 4, 2014, the Company acquired the remaining 30% interest in E-Source and as of such date the Company owns 100% of E-Source. 

On May 2, 2014, we completed the Initial Closing (defined below) contemplated under that certain Asset Purchase Agreement entered into on March 17, 2014 (as amended, the &#8220; Omega Purchase Agreement &#8221;) by and among the Company, Vertex Refining LA, LLC and Vertex Refining NV, LLC (&#8220; Vertex Refining Nevada &#8221;), both wholly-owned subsidiaries of Vertex Energy Operating, LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary (&#8220; Vertex Operating &#8221;), Louisiana LV OR LLC f/k/a Omega Refining, LLC (&#8220; Omega Refining &#8221;), Bango Refining NV, LLC (&#8220; Bango Refining &#8221;) and Omega Holdings Company LLC (&#8220; Omega Holdings &#8221; and collectively with Omega Refining and Bango Refining, &#8220; Omega &#8221; or the &#8220; sellers &#8221;). 

Pursuant to the Omega Purchase Agreement, we agreed to acquire certain of Omega&#8217;s assets related to (1) the operation of oil re-refineries and, in connection therewith, purchasing used lubricating oils and re-refining such oils into processed oils and other products for the distribution, supply and sale to end-customers and (2) the provision of related products and support services. Specifically, the assets included Omega&#8217;s Marrero, Louisiana and Bango, Nevada, re-refineries (which re-refine approximately 80 million gallons of used motor oil per year). Additionally, the Marrero, Louisiana plant produces vacuum gas oil (VGO) and the Bango, Nevada plant produces base lubricating oils. Omega also operated Golden State Lubricants Works, LLC (&#8220; Golden State &#8221;), a strategic blending and storage facility located in Bakersfield, California, which we acquired in the acquisition and have since ceased operations at. In connection with the acquisition, we also acquired certain of Omega's prepaid assets and inventory. 

The acquisition was to close in two separate closings, the first of which relating to the acquisition of Omega Refining (including the Marrero, Louisiana re-refinery and Omega&#8217;s Myrtle Grove complex in Belle Chaise, Louisiana) and ownership of Golden State, as described above (the &#8220; Acquired Business &#8221;), closed on May 2, 2014 (the &#8220; Initial Closing &#8221;), and the second of which relating to the acquisition of Bango Refining and the Bango, Nevada plant, was planned to close thereafter, subject to certain closing conditions being met prior to closing (the &#8220; Final Closing &#8221;). 

The purchase price paid at the Initial Closing was $30,750,000 in cash, 500,000 shares of our restricted common stock (valued at approximately $4 million) and the assumption of certain capital lease obligations and other liabilities relating to contracts and leases of Omega Refining in connection with the Initial Closing. We also agreed to provide Omega a loan in the amount of up to approximately $13.8 million (described below). 

The required closing date of the Final Closing was extended by the parties until January 31, 2015, provided that such Final Closing failed to occur by such date, and on February 25, 2015, we provided Omega Refining, Bango Refining, and Omega Holdings, formal notice of the termination of the Company&#8217;s rights to complete the Final Closing, provided that as disclosed below under &#8220; Recent Events &#8221; in January 2016, we acquired and then immediately sold the Bango Plant. 

In connection with the Initial Closing, Omega Refining and Bango Refining provided Vertex Refining Nevada a Secured Promissory Note (the &#8220; Omega Secured Note &#8221;) in the aggregate amount of $13,858,067, which was due and payable on March 31, 2015, which was not paid on such date, which is in default and which accrues interest at 18% per annum until paid in full. The repayment of the Omega Secured Note is guaranteed by Omega Holdings pursuant to a Guaranty Agreement and secured by a security interest granted pursuant to the terms of the Omega Secured Note and a Leasehold Deed of Trust, Security Agreement, Assignment of Leases and Rents and Fixture Filing. 

The assets and operations acquired from Omega fall under our Black Oil division, as described below. 

On December 5, 2014 (the &#8220; Closing &#8221;), we closed the transactions contemplated by the October 21, 2014 Asset Purchase Agreement by and among the Company; Vertex Refining OH, LLC (&#8220; Vertex OH &#8221;), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vertex Operating; Vertex Operating and Warren Ohio Holdings Co., LLC, f/k/a Heartland Group Holdings, LLC (&#8220; Heartland &#8221;)(as amended, the &#8220; Heartland Purchase Agreement &#8221;). 

In connection with the Closing, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Heartland related to and used in an oil re-refinery and, in connection with the collecting, aggregating and purchasing of used lubricating oils and the re-refining of such oils 

into processed oils and other products for the distribution, supply and sale to end-customers, including raw materials, finished products and work-in-process, equipment and other fixed assets, customer lists and marketing information, the name &#8216;Heartland&#8217; and other related trade names, Heartland&#8217;s real property relating to its used oil refining facility located in Columbus, Ohio, used oil storage and transfer facilities located in Columbus, Zanesville and Norwalk, Ohio (provided that the acquisition of the Norwalk, Ohio location is subject to the terms and conditions of the Second Amendment), and leases related to storage and transfer facilities located in Zanesville, Ohio, Mount Sterling, Kentucky, and Ravenswood, West Virginia (collectively, the &#8220; Heartland Assets &#8221;) and assumed certain liabilities of Heartland associated with certain assumed and acquired agreements (collectively, the &#8220; Acquired Business &#8221;). The main assets excluded from the purchased assets pursuant to the Heartland Purchase Agreement were Heartland&#8217;s cash and cash equivalents, receivables, certain prepaid expenses, refunds and related claims, rights to certain tax refunds, certain assets used in the operations of Heartland which are used more than incidentally by Heartland&#8217;s majority equity owner (Warren Distribution, Inc. (&#8220; Warren &#8221;)) in connection with the operation of its other businesses and certain real property. 

The purchase price paid in consideration for the Heartland Assets was the assumption of the assumed liabilities and an aggregate of 2,257,467 shares of restricted common stock (the &#8220; Heartland Shares &#8221;), representing a total of 1,189,637 shares valued at $8,276,792, as agreed pursuant to the terms of the original Heartland Purchase Agreement, 303,957 shares which were due in consideration for the purchase of various inventory of Heartland acquired by the Company at the closing in connection with the purchase of inventory, valued at $792,270, and a total of 763,873 shares due in consideration for the Reimbursement of Operating Losses (described below). A total of 150,000 shares of restricted common stock issued at Closing are being held in escrow and will be used to satisfy indemnification claims (the &#8220; Escrow Shares &#8221;). An aggregate of an additional $200,000 was owed to Heartland in connection with an inventory true-up after Closing and as such, we issued Heartland an additional 56,180 shares of restricted common stock ($200,000 divided by $3.56). 

Pursuant to a Consulting Agreement previously entered into with Heartland in July 2014, Vertex Operating agreed to provide consulting services to Heartland while the parties negotiated the definitive terms of the Heartland Purchase Agreement (the &#8220; Consulting Agreement &#8221;), and to reimburse Heartland for its operating losses (on a cash basis net of interest, depreciation, corporate overhead expenses and insurance proceeds received), which totaled $2,716,561 as of closing (the &#8220; Reimbursement for Operating Losses &#8221;). 

Heartland also has the right pursuant to the terms of the Heartland Purchase Agreement to earn additional earn-out consideration of up to a maximum of $8,276,792, based on total EBITDA related to the Heartland Business during the twelve month period beginning on January 1, 2016 (the &#8220; Earnout Period &#8221;), as follows (as applicable, the &#8220; Contingent Payment &#8221;): 

EBITDA generated during Earnout Period 

Contingent Payment Due 

Less than $1,650,000 

$0 

At least $1,650,000 

$4,138,396 

More than $1,650,000 and less than $3,300,000 

Pro-rated between $4,138,396 and $8,276,792 

$3,300,000 

$8,276,792 

Any Contingent Payment due is payable 50% in cash and 50% in shares of the Company&#8217;s common stock based on VWAP commencing on the trading day immediately following the last day of the Earnout Period and ending on such tenth trading day thereafter. Additionally, the amount of any Contingent Payment is reduced by two-thirds of the cumulative total of required capital expenditures incurred at Heartland&#8217;s refining facility in Columbus, Ohio, which are paid or funded by Vertex OH after the closing, not to exceed $866,667, which capital expenditures are estimated to total $1.3 million in aggregate. 

Notwithstanding the above, the maximum number of shares of common stock to be issued pursuant to the Heartland Purchase Agreement (including shares sold in connection with certain Subscription Agreements entered into with trusts beneficially owned by our Chief Executive Officer on or around the same date) cannot (i) exceed 19.9% of the outstanding shares of common stock outstanding on October 21, 2014, (ii) exceed 19.9% of the combined voting power of the Company on October 21, 2014, or (iii) otherwise exceed such number of shares of common stock that would violate applicable listing rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market in the event the Company&#8217;s stockholders do not approve the issuance of such shares (the &#8220; Share Cap &#8221;). In the event the number of shares to be issued exceeds the Share Cap, then Vertex OH is required to instead pay any such additional consideration in cash or obtain the approval of the Company&#8217;s stockholders under applicable rules and requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market for the additional issuance of shares. 

The assets and operations acquired from Heartland fall under our Black Oil division as described below. 

Description of Business Activities: 

We are an environmental services company that recycles industrial waste streams and off-specification commercial chemical products. Our primary focus is recycling used motor oil and other petroleum by-products. We are engaged in operations across the entire petroleum recycling value chain including collection, aggregation, transportation, storage, re-refinement, and sales of aggregated feedstock and re-refined products to end users. We operate in three divisions Black Oil, Refining and Marketing, and Recovery. 

We currently provide our services in 15 states, primarily in the Gulf Coast and Central Midwest regions of the United States. For the rolling twelve month period ending December 31, 2015, we aggregated approximately 117 million gallons of used motor oil and other petroleum by-product feedstocks and managed the re-refining of approximately 75 million gallons of used motor oil with our proprietary TCEP, VGO and Base Oil processes. 

Our Black Oil division collects and purchases used motor oil directly from third-party generators, aggregates used motor oil from an established network of local and regional collectors, and sells used motor oil to our customers for use as a feedstock or replacement fuel for industrial burners. 

Our Refining and Marketing division aggregates and manages the re-refinement of used motor oil and other petroleum by-products and sells the re-refined products to end customers. We operate a refining facility that uses our proprietary TCEP and we also utilize third-party processing facilities. We also acquired our Marrero, Louisiana facility, which facility re-refines used motor oil and also produces vacuum gas oil ("VGO,") and our Myrtle Grove re-refining complex in Belle Chasse, Louisiana in May 2014. At the same time we acquired Golden State Lubricant Works, LLC ("Golden State"), a blending and storage facility in Bakersfield, California which we have ceased operating as of the date of this report. 

Our Recovery division includes a generator solutions company for the proper recovery and management of hydrocarbon streams as well as a company named E-Source. E-Source provides dismantling, demolition, decommission and marine salvage services at industrial facilities throughout the Gulf Coast. E-Source also owns and operates a fleet of trucks and other vehicles that are used for shipping and handling equipment and scrap materials. 

Black Oil Division 

Our Black Oil division is engaged in operations across the entire used motor oil recycling value chain including collection, aggregation, transportation, storage, refinement, and sales of aggregated feedstock and re-refined products to end users. We collect and purchase used oil directly from generators such as oil change service stations, automotive repair shops, manufacturing facilities, petroleum refineries, and petrochemical manufacturing operations. We own a fleet of 26 collection vehicles, which routinely visit generators to collect and purchase used motor oil. We also aggregate used oil from a diverse network of approximately 50 suppliers who operate similar collection businesses to ours. 

We manage the logistics of transport, storage and delivery of used oil to our customers. We own a fleet of 15 transportation trucks and more than 150 aboveground storage tanks with over 7.3 million gallons of storage capacity. These assets are used by both the Black Oil division and the Refining and Marketing division. In addition, we also utilize third parties for the transportation and storage of used oil feedstocks. Typically, we sell used oil to our customers in bulk to ensure efficient delivery by truck, rail, or barge. In many cases, we have contractual purchase and sale agreements with our suppliers and customers, respectively. We believe these contracts are beneficial to all parties involved because it ensures that a minimum volume is purchased from collectors and generators, a minimum volume is sold to our customers, and we are able to minimize our inventory risk by a spread between the costs to acquire used oil and the revenues received from the sale and delivery of used oil. We also use our proprietary TCEP technology to re-refine used oil into marine fuel cutterstock and a higher-value feedstock for further processing. In addition, at our Marrero facility we produce a Vacuum Gas Oil (VGO) product that is sold to refineries as well as to the marine fuels market. At our Columbus, Ohio facility (Heartland Petroleum) we produce a base oil product that is sold to lubricant packagers and distributors. 

Refining and Marketing Division 

Our Refining and Marketing division is engaged in the aggregation of feedstock, re-refining it into higher value end products, and selling these products to our customers, as well as related transportation and storage activities. We aggregate a diverse mix of feedstocks including used motor oil, petroleum distillates, transmix and other off-specification chemical products. These feedstock streams are purchased from pipeline operators, refineries, chemical processing facilities and third-party providers, and are also transferred from our Black Oil division. We have a toll-based processing agreement in place with KMTEX to re-refine feedstock streams, under our direction, into various end products that we specify. KMTEX uses industry standard processing 

technologies to re-refine our feedstocks into pygas, gasoline blendstock and marine fuel cutterstock. We sell all of our re-refined products directly to end-customers or to processing facilities for further refinement. 

Recovery Division 

The Recovery division is a generator solutions company for the proper recovery and management of hydrocarbon streams. The Recovery division also provides industrial dismantling, demolition, decommissioning, investment recovery and marine salvage services in industrial facilities. The Company (through this division) owns and operates a fleet of eight trucks and heavy equipment used for processing, shipping and handling of reusable process equipment and other scrap commodities. 

Biomass Renewable Energy 

We are also continuing to work on joint development commercial projects which focus on the separation of municipal solid waste into feedstocks for energy production. We are very selective in choosing opportunities that we believe will result in value for our shareholders. We can provide no assurance that the ongoing venture will successfully bring any projects to a point of financing or successful construction and operation. 

Thermal Chemical Extraction Process 

We own the intellectual property for our patented TCEP. TCEP is a technology which utilizes thermal and chemical dynamics to extract impurities from used oil which increases the value of the feedstock. We intend to continue to develop our TCEP technology and design with the goal of producing additional re-refined products, including lubricating base oil. 

TCEP differs from conventional re-refining technologies, such as vacuum distillation and hydrotreatment, by relying more heavily on chemical processes to remove impurities rather than temperature and pressure. Therefore, the capital requirements to build a TCEP plant are typically much less than a traditional re-refinery because large feed heaters, vacuum distillation columns, and a hydrotreating unit are not required. The end product currently produced by TCEP is used as fuel oil cutterstock. Conventional re-refineries produce lubricating base oils or product grades slightly lower than base oil that can be used as industrial fuels or transportation fuel blendstocks. 

We currently estimate the cost to construct a new, fully-functional, commercial facility using our TCEP technology, with annual processing capacity of between 25 and 50 million gallons at another location would be approximately $10 - $15 million, which could fluctuate based on throughput capacity. The facility infrastructure would require additional capitalized expenditures which would depend on the location and site specifics of the facility. 

Our Industry 

The used oil recycling industry is comprised of multiple participants including generators, collectors, aggregators, processors, and end users. Generators are entities that generate used oil through their daily operations such as automotive businesses conducting oil changes on consumer and commercial vehicles and industrial users changing lubricants on machinery and heavy equipment. Collectors are typically local businesses that purchase used oil from generators and provide on-site collection services. The collection market is highly fragmented and we believe there are more than 400 used oil collectors in the United States. Aggregators are specialized businesses that purchase used oil and petroleum by-products from multiple collectors and sell and deliver it as feedstock to processors. Processors, or re-refineries, utilize a processing technology to convert the used oil or petroleum by-product into a higher-value feedstock or end-product. Used oil is any oil that has been refined from crude oil or any synthetic oil that has been used and, as a result of such use, is contaminated by physical or chemical impurities. Physical impurities could include contamination by metal shavings, sawdust, or dirt. Chemical impurities could include contamination by water or benzene, or degradation of lubricating additives. 

Conventional re-refineries typically employ vacuum distillation and hydrotreating processes to transform used oil into various grades of base oil. Vacuum distillation is a process that removes emulsified contaminated water and separates used oil into vacuum gas oil and light fuels. The vacuum gas oil is then hydrotreated to produce lubricating base oil. Hydrotreating is a process which combines chemical catalysts, heat, and pressure to remove impurities such as sulfur, chlorine, and oxygen and to stabilize the end product. A re-refined lubricating base oil is of equal quality and will last as long as a virgin base oil. In addition, other re-refining processes transform used oil into product grades slightly lower than base oil. These products, along with vacuum gas oil and the end product produced by TCEP, are commonly referred to as intermediate products and are used as industrial fuels or transportation fuel blendstocks. 

The petroleum by-products industry is driven by the financial and environmental benefits of recycling, as well as by the amount of petroleum by-product generated each year. Used oil is usually recovered and recycled in one of two ways: (i) by burning it as an industrial fuel; or (ii) by re-refining it into higher value end products, such as lubricating base oils, fuel oil cutterstock, or transportation fuels (pursuant to the U.S. Department of Energy, July 2006 Report entitled &#8220; Used Oil Re-refining Study to Address Energy Policy Act of 2005 Section 1838 &#8221;). The market value of recycled oil is based, in large part, on its end use. In general, the market price for used motor oil that is burned as an industrial fuel is driven by the cost of competing fuels, including natural gas, while the market value of re-refined used motor oil is driven by competing petroleum products. The extent to which the financial benefits of recycling used oil are realized is driven by operating efficiency in aggregating, storing and transporting used oil supply; the extent to which the used oil is re-refined; and the price spread between natural gas and crude oil. 

In the U.S., we believe that of the approximately 1.3 billion gallons of used oil generated annually approximately 200 million gallons are improperly disposed, 200 - 250 million gallons are re-refined into lubricating base oils, 150 - 200 million gallons are re-refined into intermediate products with grades slightly lower than base oil, and 650 - 750 million gallons are burned as an industrial fuel source. We believe that the amount of used oil being re-refined into base oils and intermediate products in the U.S. will stay basically unchanged in 2016 as no additional re-refining capacity is scheduled to come on-line. As of the date of this Report, the approximate market price for used oil at the generator level is approximately $0.25 per gallon charge, the approximate market price of intermediate re-refined products ranges from $.75 to $1.10 per gallon, and the approximate price for lubricating base oil ranges from $1.20 to $1.40 per gallon, representing a U.S. market size of approximately $1.0 - $1.5 billion for recycled oil. 

As with the financial benefits of recycling used oil, the environmental benefits are also driven by its end use. Environmental regulations prohibit the disposal of used oil in sewers or landfills because used motor oil is insoluble and contains heavy metals and other contaminants that make it detrimental to the environment if improperly disposed; one gallon of used oil can contaminate up to 1 million gallons of fresh drinking water. Additionally, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, it takes 42 gallons of crude oil, but only 1 gallon of used oil, to produce 2.5 quarts of new, high-quality lubricating oil. Compared to burning used oil as an industrial fuel, re-refined oil significantly reduces the amount of toxic heavy metals and greenhouse gases and other pollutants introduced into the environment. In addition, the use of re-refined motor oil conserves petroleum that would have otherwise been refined into virgin base stock oil. 

We believe that the used oil recycling market has significant growth potential through increasing the percentage of recycled oil that is re-refined rather than burned as a low cost industrial fuel. We believe that the financial and environmental benefits of re-refining used oil combined with consumer and commercial demand for high-quality, environmentally responsible products will drive growth in demand for re-refined oil and re-refining capacity in the United States. Furthermore, we believe that increasing consumer and industrial awareness of the environmental impact of improperly disposing used oil may drive additional market growth as approximately 200 million gallons of used oil generated each year are improperly disposed rather than recycled. 

Used motor oil is burned by various users such as asphalt companies, paper mills and industrial facilities as an alternative to their base fuels, to offset operational costs. Therefore, the commercial price of used oil is typically slightly less than the base fuels for the burners. Similarly, re-refined oil is used as a substitute for various virgin petroleum-based products with pricing driven by the market price of crude oil. Since there is not an active marketplace for used and re-refined oil prices, we use the prices of natural gas and crude as benchmarks in our industry. Typically, the spread between crude and natural gas prices is an accurate proxy for the potential incremental value of re-refining used oil. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

Large, Diversified Feedstock Supply Network. 

We obtain our feedstock supply through a combination of direct collection activities and purchases from third-party suppliers. We believe our balanced direct and indirect approach to obtaining feedstock is highly advantageous because it enables us to maximize total supply and reduce our reliance on any single supplier and the risk of not fulfilling our minimum feedstock sale quotas. We collect feedstock directly from over 4,500 generators including oil change service stations, automotive repair shops, manufacturing facilities, petroleum refineries and petrochemical manufacturing operations, as well as brokers. We aggregate used oil from a diverse network of approximately 50 suppliers who operate similar collection businesses to ours. 

Strategic Relationships. &#32; 

We have established relationships with key feedstock suppliers, storage and transportation providers, oil re-refineries, and end-user customers. We believe our relationships with these parties are strong, in part due to our high level of customer service, 

competitive prices, and our ability to contract (for purchase or sale) long-term, minimum monthly feedstock commitments. We believe that our strategic relationships could lead to contract extensions and expanded feedstock supply or purchase agreements. 

Proprietary Technology. &#32; 

Our proprietary TCEP technology produces a fuel oil cutterstock for the fuel oil market or a refining feedstock. We are able to build TCEP re-refining facilities at a significantly lower cost than conventional re-refineries. We estimate the cost to build a TCEP plant with capacity of up to 50 million gallons at approximately $10 - $15 million, whereas a similar sized base oil plant with vacuum distillation towers and a hydrotreater can cost in excess of $50 million. Notwithstanding the lower cost of TCEP plants, with oil at its current prices, we do not believe that it makes economic sense to operate (or expand) our TCEP technology due to the fixed operating costs involved. 

Logistics Capabilities. &#160; 

We &#160; have extensive expertise and experience managing and operating feedstock supply chain logistics and multimodal transportation services for customers who purchase our feedstock or higher-value, re-refined products. We believe that our scale, infrastructure, expertise, and contracts enable us to cost effectively transport product and consistently meet our customers&#8217; volume, quality and delivery schedule requirements. 

Scale of Operations. &#32; 

We believe that the size and scale of our operations is a significant competitive advantage when competing for new business and maintaining existing customer relationships. Price is one of the main competitive factors in the feedstock collection industry and because we are able to effectively leverage our fixed operating costs and economies of scale, we believe that our prices are competitive. Through our network of suppliers and customers, we aggregate a large amount of feedstock, which enables us to enter into minimum purchase and sale contracts as well as accept large volume orders year-round. We believe this is a competitive advantage because it minimizes our suppliers&#8217; inventory risk and ensures our customers&#8217; minimum order volumes are satisfied. In addition, we believe our end customers prefer to work with an exclusive supplier rather than manage multiple customer relationships. 

Diversified End Product Sales. 

We believe that the diversity of the products we sell reduces our overall risk and exposure to price fluctuations. Prices for petroleum based products can be impacted significantly by supply and demand fluctuations which are not correlated with general commodity price changes. For instance, in a rising commodity price environment with a significant over-supply of base oil, the price of base oil may fall precipitously while the price of gasoline increases. We offer a diversified product mix consisting of used motor oil, fuel oil, pygas, and gasoline blendstock. We can also control our mix of end products by choosing to either resell collected feedstock or re-refine it into a higher-value product. 

Management Team. &#32; 

We are led by a management team with expertise in petroleum recycling, finance, operations, and re-refinement technology. Each member of our senior management team has more than 15 years of industry experience. We believe the strength of our management team will help our success in the marketplace. 

Our Business Strategy 

The principal elements of our strategy include: 

Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Partnerships 

&#160; We plan to grow market share by consolidating feedstock supply through partnering with or acquiring collection and aggregation assets. Our executive team has a proven ability to evaluate resource potential and identify acquisition targets. The acquisitions and/or partnerships could increase our revenue and provide better control over the quality and quantity of feedstock available for resale and/or upgrading as well as providing additional locations for the implementation of TCEP. We also intend to diversify our revenue by acquiring complementary recycling service businesses, refining assets and technologies, and other vertically integrated businesses or assets. We believe we can realize synergies on acquisitions by leveraging our customer and vendor relationships, infrastructure, and personnel, and by eliminating duplicative overhead costs. 

Expand Feedstock Supply Volume 

We intend to expand our feedstock supply volume by growing our collection and aggregation operations. We plan to increase the volume of feedstock we collect directly by developing new relationships with generators and working to displace incumbent collectors; increasing the number of collection personnel, vehicles, equipment, and geographical areas we serve; and acquiring collectors in new or existing territories. We intend to increase the volume of feedstock we aggregate from third-party collectors by expanding our existing relationships and developing new vendor relationships. We believe that our ability to acquire large feedstock volumes will help to cultivate new vendor relationships because collectors often prefer to work with a single, reliable customer rather than manage multiple relationships and the uncertainty of excess inventory. 

Broaden Existing Customer Relationships and Secure New Large Accounts 

We intend to broaden our existing customer relationships by increasing sales of used motor oil and re-refined products to these accounts. In some cases, we may also seek to serve as our customers&#8217; primary or exclusive supplier. We also believe that as we increase our supply of feedstock and re-refined products we will have the opportunity to secure larger customer accounts that require a partner who can consistently deliver high volumes. 

Re-Refine Higher Value End Products 

We intend to develop, lease, or acquire technologies to re-refine our feedstock supply into higher value end products, including assets or technologies which complement TCEP. Currently, we are using TCEP to re-refine used oil feedstock into cutter stock for use in the marine fuel market. We hope that continued improvements to our TCEP technology and investments in additional technologies will enable us to upgrade feedstock into higher value end products, such as fuels and lubricating base oil that command higher market prices than the current re-refined products we produce. 

Products and Services 

We generate substantially all of our revenue from the sale of five product categories. All of these products are commodities that are subject to various degrees of product quality and performance specifications. 

Used Motor Oil 

Used motor oil is a petroleum-based or synthetic lubricant that contains impurities such as dirt, sand, water, and chemicals. 

Fuel Oil 

Fuel Oil is a distillate fuel which is typically blended with lower quality fuel oils. The distillation of used oil and other petroleum by-products creates a fuel with low viscosity, as well as low sulfur, ash, and heavy metal content, making it an ideal blending agent. 

Pygas 

Pygas, or pyrolysis gasoline, is a product that can be blended with gasoline as an octane booster or that can be distilled and separated into its components, including benzene and other hydrocarbons. 

Gasoline Blendstock 

Naphthas and various distillate products used for blending or compounding into finished motor gasoline. These components can include reformulated gasoline blendstock for oxygenate blending (RBOB) but exclude oxygenates (alcohols and ethers), butane, and pentanes plus. 

Base Oil 

An oil to which other oils or substances are added to produce a lubricant. Typically the main substance in lubricants, base oils are refined from crude oil. 

Suppliers 

We conduct business with a number of used oil generators, as well as a large network of suppliers that collect used oil from used oil generators. In our capacity as a collector of used oil, we purchase feedstock from approximately 4,500 businesses, such as oil change service stations, automotive repair shops, manufacturing facilities, petroleum refineries, and petrochemical manufacturing operations, which generate used oil through their operations. 

In our capacity as a broker of used oil, we work with approximately 50 suppliers that collect used oil from businesses such as those mentioned above. 

Customers 

The Black Oil division sells used oil, VGO, base oil and other petroleum feedstocks to numerous customers in the Gulf Coast and Midwest regions of the United States. The primary customers of its products are packagers, distributers, blenders and industrial burners, as described above as well as re-refiners of the feedstock. The Black Oil division is party to various feedstock sale agreements whereby we sell used oil feedstock to third parties. The agreements provide for us to sell certain minimum gallons of used oil feedstock per month at a price per barrel equal to our direct costs, plus certain commissions, based on the quality and quantity of the used oil we supply. 

The Recovery division does not rely solely on contracts, but mainly on the spot market as well as a strategic network of customers and vendors to support the purchase and sale of its products which are commodities. It also relies on project based work which it bids on from time to time of which there is no guarantee or assurance of repeat business. The E-Source business which is part of the Recovery division relies heavily on numerous Master Service Agreements which it has in place with large facilities, such as power plants, petroleum refineries and major industrial clients. 

KMTEX Tolling Agreement 

On or around April 17, 2013, and effective June 1, 2012, we entered into a new Tolling Agreement with KMTEX, Ltd. (&#8220; KMTEX &#8221; and the agreement as amended to date, the &#8220; Tolling Agreement &#8221;). The Company was previously party to a tolling agreement with KMTEX which expired pursuant to its terms on June 30, 2010, provided that the parties had continued to operate under the terms of the expired agreement until their entry into the April 2013 Tolling Agreement. 

Pursuant to the Tolling Agreement, KMTEX agreed to process feedstock of certain petroleum distillates, which we provide to KMTEX, into more valuable feedstocks, including pygas, gasoline blend stock and MDO/cutter stock. The Tolling Agreement had an expiration date of June 30, 2014 (the &#8220; Initial Term &#8221;), provided that if not terminated by either party by written notice to the other, received within ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term (or any Extension Term, defined below), the agreement automatically renews for a successive one (1) year period (an &#8220; Extension Term &#8221;), and as no party provided the other notice of non-renewal, the agreement automatically renewed for an additional one (1) year from June 30, 2014 to June 30, 2015. The Tolling Agreement can be automatically extended for up to five (5) more Extension Terms. However, either party can terminate the Tolling Agreement at any time with ninety (90) days prior written notice for any reason and with thirty (30) days written notice upon the occurrence of certain material termination events as described in greater detail in the agreement. In connection with and pursuant to the Tolling Agreement, we pay KMTEX certain monthly tank rental fees, truck and rail car fees, and processing fees based on the weight of the material processed by KMTEX, as well as certain disposal fees and other fees. Each year of the agreement, beginning on the 12 month anniversary of the effective date, the parties agreed to review and increase the fees provided for in the agreement in accordance with among other things, various consumer price index benchmarks, as mutually agreed. 

The Tolling Agreement also provides that, for materials delivered to KMTEX by rail, barge, drum, or truck, KMTEX is required to obtain the Bill of Lading and Material Safety Data Sheet that accompany such materials and not accept any materials not accompanied by a Uniform Hazardous Waste Manifest (promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency or other Federal or State Government). The Company is also required to indemnify KMTEX against the acceptance of any material later classified as a hazardous waste. The agreement requires KMTEX to be responsible for all leaks, spills, discharges and releases which occur in connection with the performance of the agreement, except due to the Company&#8217;s gross negligence. Finally, the agreement requires each party to indemnify the other against any liability as a result of death or bodily injury to any person, destruction or damage to property, contamination of, adverse effects on, or imminent or substantial endangerment of, or release or threat of release into the environment, or any threatened or actual release of hazardous substance, or any violation or alleged violation of or liability under any governmental laws, regulations, rules or orders to the extent caused by, arising out of or in any manner connected with such indemnifying party&#8217;s negligent acts, omissions, breaches of the agreement or failure to comply with applicable laws in the performance thereof, subject to certain exclusions described in the agreement. 

In November 2013 and effective November 1, 2013, we entered into a First Amendment to Processing Agreement with KMTEX LLC (previously KMTEX Ltd., hereafter &#8220; KMTEX &#8221;), which amended the Tolling Agreement. The amendment formally extended the date of the initial term of the Tolling Agreement to December 31, 2015, provided that if not terminated by either party by written notice to the other, received within ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the initial term, as amended (or any Extension Term, defined below), the agreement automatically renews for a successive one (1) year period (an &#8220; Extension Term &#8221;). The Tolling Agreement can be automatically extended for up to six (6) Extension Terms from the end of the extended initial term. The amendment also updated the pricing terms of the original agreement and required us to make certain capital expenditures at the KMTEX facility which have been made to date. 

On December 3, 2015, and effective January 1, 2016, we entered into a Second Amendment to Processing Agreement with KMTEX. The amendment formally extended the date of the initial term of the Tolling Agreement to December 31, 2016, provided that if not terminated by either party by written notice to the other, received within ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the initial term, as amended (or any Extension Term, defined below), the agreement automatically renews for a successive one (1) year period (an &#8220; Extension Term &#8221;). The Tolling Agreement can be automatically extended for up to six (6) Extension Terms from the end of the extended initial term. The amendment also updated the pricing terms of the agreement. 

Competition 

The industrial waste and brokerage of petroleum products industries are highly competitive. There are numerous small to mid-size firms that are engaged in the collection, transportation, treatment and brokerage of virgin and used petroleum products. Competitors include, but are not limited to: Safety-Kleen, Inc., Rio Energy, Inc. Heritage-Crystal Clean, Inc., and FCC Environmental (formerly Siemens Hydrocarbon Recovery Services), Thermo Fluids Inc., and Flex Oil Service, LLC. These competitors actively seek to purchase feedstock from local, regional and industrial collectors, refineries, pipelines and other sources. Competition for these feedstocks may result in increasing prices to obtain used motor oil and transmix feedstocks critical to the success of our business. In order to remain competitive, we must control costs and maintain strong relationships with our feedstock suppliers. Our network of generators and collectors minimizes our reliance on any single supplier. A portion of the sales of the collected and aggregated used motor oil product are based on supply contracts (as described above) which include a range of prices which change based on feedstock quality specifications and volumes. This pricing structure helps to insulate us from inventory risk by ensuring a spread between costs to acquire used motor oil feedstock and the revenues received for delivery of the feedstock. We believe that price and service are the main competitive factors in the used motor oil collection industry. We believe that our ability to accept and transport large volumes of oil year round gives us an advantage over many of our competitors. In addition, we believe that our storage capacity and ability to process the streams of products we receive as well as our ability to transport the end product by barge, rail and truck provide further advantages over many of our competitors. 

Employees 

We and our wholly and majority owned subsidiaries have 205 full-time employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

Seasonality 

The industrial hydrocarbon recovery business is seasonal to the extent that it is dependent on streams from seasonal industries. For example, asphalt plants burn recycled waste oil in their process, placing pricing and supply availability constraints on the industry during the good weather construction and road building seasons. In our current markets, road paving typically occurs from late spring to early fall. Therefore, it is somewhat easier to procure certain waste streams during winter months when competition for used motor oil feedstock is historically not as strong. Currently we are seeing increased demand for used motor oil feedstocks throughout the year due to the addition of re-refining technologies in the marketplace. &#160; 

Regulation 

We operate in a highly regulated and competitive environment that is subject to change, particularly in the area of environmental compliance. Our operations are regulated by federal, state, county and, in some jurisdictions, city regulations. 

Additionally, the U.S. Departments of Transportation, Coast Guard and Homeland Security as well as various federal, state, local and foreign agencies exercise broad powers over our transportation operations, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and permits to conduct transportation business. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations that the Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency or other authorities impose, including regulations relating to engine exhaust emissions, the hours of service that our drivers may provide in any one time period, security and other matters. 

Our compliance challenges arise from various legislative and regulatory bodies influenced by political, environmental, health and safety concerns. 

For example, changes in federal regulations relating to the use of methyl tertiary butyl ether and new sulfur limitations for product shipped in domestic pipelines resulted in tightened specifications of gasoline blendstock that we were refining, causing a corresponding decrease in revenue and gross margin growth during 2006, as compared to prior years. This change in regulation, as well as other emission-related regulations, had a material impact on the entire petroleum industry, and we adapted and managed our operations by finding materials better suited to comply with these regulations. As such, it is possible that future changes in federal regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations. 

We must also obtain and maintain a range of federal, state and local permits for our various logistical needs as well as our planned industrial processes. 

Inflation and Commodity Price Risk 

To date, our business has not been significantly affected by inflation. We purchase petroleum and petroleum by-products for consolidation and delivery, as well as for our own refining operations. By virtue of constant changes in the market value of petroleum products, we are exposed to fluctuations in both revenues and expenses. We do not currently engage in an active hedging program, as the inventory/finished product turnover occurs within approximately four to six weeks, thereby limiting the timeline of potential exposure. The purchase of our used motor oil feedstock tends to track with natural gas pricing due to the market&#8217;s typical practice of substituting used motor oil for natural gas as a fuel source for various industrial processes. On the other hand, the prices of the products that may in the future be generated through the re-refining processes that we hope to develop are expected to track with market pricing for marine diesel and vacuum-gas oil. The recent drop in oil prices has decreased the spread between the price of used motor oil, feedstock and re-refining end-products. 

Recent Events 

Purchase and Sale Agreement, Churchill County, Nevada Plant 

On January 28, 2016, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the &#8220; Sale Agreement &#8221;) with Vertex Operating and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Vertex Refining Nevada, Bango Oil, LLC (&#8220; Bango Oil &#8221;)(provided that Bango Oil did not become a party to the agreement until we exercised the Purchase Option, described below) and Safety-Kleen Systems, Inc. (&#8220; Safety-Kleen &#8221;). 

Pursuant to the Sale Agreement, which closed on January 29, 2016, we (through Bango Oil after we acquired Bango Oil as described below pursuant to our exercise of the Purchase Option) sold Safety-Kleen the used oil re-refining plant located on approximately 40 acres in Churchill County, Nevada (the &#8220; Bango Plant &#8221;), which we previously rented, and all equipment, tools and other tangible personal property located at the Bango Plant, which relate to or are used in connection with the operations of the Bango Plant (collectively, the &#8220; Bango Assets &#8221;). Safety-Kleen assumed certain liabilities associated with contracts assumed in the purchase and related to bringing the Bango Plant back into operational status. The aggregate purchase price for the Bango Assets was $35 million, subject to adjustment as described in the Sale Agreement for certain taxes, costs and expenses incurred by Safety-Kleen after closing. A total of $1.3 million of the purchase price was used by us in order to exercise the options we had pursuant to two Lease and Purchase Agreements (the &#8220; Equipment Leases &#8221;) we were party to, which provided for the use of a rail facility and related equipment and a pre-fabricated metal building located at the Fallon, Nevada, facility, and which provided us (through Vertex Refining Nevada) the right to acquire the applicable property/equipment subject to each Equipment Lease at any time prior to the expiration of the leases for $914,000 and $400,000, respectively. Additionally, $100,000 of the purchase price was retained by Safety-Kleen to acquire certain water rights necessary for operation of the Bango Plant. Finally, a required closing condition of the Sale Agreement was that we use a portion of the purchase price to exercise the purchase option set forth in that certain Lease With Option For Membership Interest Purchase (the &#8220; Bango Lease &#8221;) entered into on April 30, 2015, by and between us, Vertex Refining Nevada and Bango Oil, whereby, we had the option at any time during the term of the lease to purchase all of the equity interests of Bango Oil (the &#8220; Purchase Option &#8221;), effectively acquiring ownership of the Bango Plant. The Purchase Option was exercised by us on January 29, 2016 in connection with the closing of the Sale Agreement, at which time Bango Oil became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vertex Refining Nevada, and we paid approximately $9 million of consideration to Bango Oil in connection with the Purchase Option as described in greater detail below under &#8220; Membership Interest Purchase Agreement &#8221;. The terms of the Bango Lease and Equipment Leases are described in greater detail in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 5, 2015. Additionally, an aggregate of $16 million of the purchase price paid by Safety-Kleen in connection with the Sale Agreement was required to be paid by us to our senior lender, Goldman Sachs Bank USA, at closing, which amount was paid at closing, and which funds were used to pay down amounts owed to Goldman Sachs Bank USA under our Credit Agreement, as described in greater detail below under &#8220; Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement &#8221;. 

Additionally, at the closing, we placed $1.5 million in cash and $1 million worth of our common stock (1,101,928 shares) into escrow with 50% of the shares to be released 12 months following the closing and such cash and the remainder of the shares held in escrow to be released 18 months after the closing, in order to satisfy any indemnification claims made by Safety-Kleen pursuant to the terms of the Sale Agreement. On June 30 and December 31 of each year that any of our shares of common stock are in escrow, in the event the value of the shares held in escrow is less than $1 million, based on the then market price of our common stock, we are required to increase the number of shares of common stock held in escrow to total $1 million in aggregate value. 

The Sale Agreement includes standard indemnification obligations of the parties, subject to certain caps on indemnification and deductibles. The closing of the transactions contemplated by the Sale Agreement was subject to usual and customary closing conditions, including requiring that we and Safety-Kleen enter into a Swap Agreement and Base Oil Agreement (each as described in greater detail below), all of which were satisfied prior to or at closing. 

The Sale Agreement includes a provision preventing us from directly or indirectly, hiring or soliciting any person who is or was employed in the operations conducted at the Bango Plant for a period of five (5) years after the closing, except pursuant to a general solicitation which is not directed specifically to any such employees; provided, that nothing prohibits the Company from hiring (i) any employee whose employment has been terminated by Safety-Kleen or (ii) after 180 days from the date of termination of employment, any employee whose employment has been terminated by the employee. 

Houlihan Lokey acted as exclusive financial advisor to the Company in connection with the transaction. 

The Company received net cash of approximately $17.3 million in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Sale Agreement, after deducting legal, administrative and banker fees; amounts paid in connection with the exercise of the Purchase Option; cash amounts set aside in escrow; and the purchase price of the equipment related to the Bango Plant as described above, of which $16 million was immediately paid to the Lender (defined below under &#8220; Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement &#8221;) to pay down amounts owed to Lender under the Credit Agreement (defined below under &#8220; Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement &#8221;). 

Swap Agreement and Base Oil Agreement 

A required condition to closing the transactions contemplated by the Sale Agreement was that we (through Vertex Operating) and Safety-Kleen enter into a Swap Agreement (the &#8220; Swap Agreement &#8221;), which was entered into on January 29, 2016. The Swap Agreement has a term of five years, beginning when the Bango Plant is operational, and automatically renews for additional one year terms thereafter unless either party provides the other 90 days prior written notice of their intention not to renew prior to any automatic extension. Pursuant to the Swap Agreement, we and Safety-Kleen agreed to swap certain quantities of used oil feedstock (the agreement includes monthly maximums, quarterly minimums and maximums, and annual maximums of used oil feedstock volume required to be &#8216;swapped&#8217;) between the Bango Plant (which will then be owned and operated by Safety-Kleen) and our Marrero, Louisiana plant and/or the Cedar Marine Terminal in Baytown, Texas, on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis, with any shortfall in the amount of used oil feedstock &#8216;swapped&#8217; on a quarterly basis, being paid for in cash based on a discount to U.S. Platts mid-range per gallon rate for Gulf Coast No. 6, 3% oil (the &#8220; Platts &#8221;). The Swap Agreement can be terminated with 30 days prior written notice in the event either party fails to meet the specifications for oil feedstock set forth in the agreement, a party fails to deliver the required minimum quarterly volumes of oil feedstock during any three consecutive quarters, or a party materially breaches a term of the agreement. 

Additionally, we (through Vertex Operating) and Safety-Kleen also entered into a Base Oil Agreement in connection with, and as a required condition of, the closing (the &#8220; Base Oil Agreement &#8221;). The Base Oil Agreement provides for us to purchase from Safety-Kleen, and Safety-Kleen to sell to us, certain required quantities of base oils and other finished lubricants described in greater detail in the Base Oil Agreement (the &#8220; Base Oil &#8221;)(the agreement contains quarterly and annual maximum volumes of Base Oil to be acquired by us). The agreement has a term of five years and automatically renews for additional one year terms thereafter unless either party provides the other 90 days prior written notice of their intention not to renew prior to any automatic extension. 

Membership Interest Purchase Agreement 

Pursuant to a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement entered into in connection with the closing of the Sale Agreement, by and among Vertex Refining Nevada, as buyer, Fox Encore 05 LLC, the sole owner of Bango Oil, as seller (&#8220; Fox Encore &#8221;), and certain other parties, Vertex Refining Nevada acquired 100% of Bango Oil pursuant to the Purchase Option described above under &#8220; Purchase and Sale Agreement, Churchill County, Nevada Plant &#8221;. The purchase price payable by Vertex Refining Nevada to Fox Encore was approximately $9 million, which funds were paid with proceeds received pursuant to the Sale Agreement. The 

Membership Interest Purchase Agreement contains standard and customary representations of the parties and indemnification rights, subject in each case to a $3 million cap on aggregate indemnification. Upon the closing of the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, we effectively obtained ownership of the Bango Plant, which we then sold to Safety-Kleen, and Bango Oil became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vertex Refining Nevada. 

Subscription Agreement 

On January 29, 2016, separate from and subsequent to the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, Fox Encore entered into a Subscription Agreement with the Company whereby Fox Encore subscribed for and purchased 44,000 shares of newly-designated Series C Preferred Stock (as described below) in consideration for $4 million. The 44,000 shares of Series C Preferred Stock are convertible into 4,400,000 shares of the Company&#8217;s common stock subject to the terms of a Certificate of Designation of the Series C Preferred Stock (see terms of the Series C Preferred Stock described in greater detail below under &#8220; Item 5. Market for Registrant&#8217;s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities &#8221; - &#8220; Description of Capital Stock &#8221; - &#8220; Series C Convertible Preferred Stock &#8221;). 

$5.15 Million Promissory Note 

On January 29, 2016, following the closing of, and separate from the transactions contemplated by, the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, Vertex OH, borrowed $5.15 million from Fox Encore and provided a Promissory Note to Fox Encore to reflect such borrowed funds (the &#8220; Fox Note &#8221;). The Fox Note bears interest at 10% percent per annum (15% upon the occurrence of an event of default), payable monthly in arrears beginning on February 29, 2016. The principal and all accrued and unpaid interest on the Fox Note is due on the earlier of (a) July 31, 2016 (as may be extended by Vertex OH as discussed below, the &#8220; Maturity Date &#8221;), or (b) upon acceleration of the Fox Note during the existence of an event of default as discussed therein. Provided that no event of default is then existing on the Fox Note or under any other loan document associated therewith, and certain other requirements as described in the Fox Note are met, Vertex OH has the right to three (3) extension options (each, an &#8220; Extension Option &#8221;) pursuant to which Vertex OH may extend the Maturity Date for six (6) months each. The first extension will extend the Maturity Date of the Fox Note until January 31, 2017, the second extension will extend the Maturity Date of the Fox Note until July 31, 2017, and the third extension will extend the Maturity Date of the Fox Note until January 29, 2018. Upon exercising an Extension Option, Vertex OH is required to pay Fox Encore an extension fee equal to 3% of the then outstanding principal amount of the Fox Note, which amount is separate from, and is not applied toward, the outstanding indebtedness owed under the Fox Note; provided, however, that if Vertex OH elects to exercise the Extension Option to extend the Maturity Date to January 31, 2017, the 3% fee for such extension is not to be paid in cash but is instead added to the outstanding principal balance of the Fox Note. The Fox Note may be prepaid in whole or in part at any time without penalty, provided that if repaid in full by July 31, 2016, the amount to be repaid is decreased by $150,000. The Fox Note is secured by the Mortgage described below. The Fox Note includes certain standard and customary financial reporting requirements, notice requirements, indemnification requirements, covenants and events of default. The Fox Note also includes a provision allowing the Lender (or any other lender party to the Restated Credit Agreement each as described below under &#8220; Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement &#8221;) to purchase the Fox Note upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Restated Credit Agreement. 

Open-End Mortgage, Security Agreement, Fixture Filing and Assignment of Leases and Rents 

On January 29, 2016, Vertex OH, entered into an Open-Open-End Mortgage, Security Agreement, Fixture Filing and Assignment of Leases and Rents agreement (the &#8220; Mortgage &#8221;) with Fox Encore in order to secure the amount owed under the Fox Note discussed above. Pursuant to the Mortgage, Vertex OH granted Fox Encore a security interest in the Columbus, Ohio refinery owned by Vertex OH. 

Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement 

On January 29, 2016, we, Vertex Operating, certain of our other subsidiaries, Goldman Sachs Specialty Lending Holdings, Inc., as lender (&#8220; Lender &#8221;) and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, a New York State-Chartered Bank, as Administrative Agent, Lead Arranger and Collateral Agent (&#8220; Agent &#8221;) entered into an Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the &#8220; Restated Credit Agreement &#8221;), which amended and restated that certain $40 million Credit and Guaranty Agreement entered into between the parties on May 2, 2014 (as amended and modified to date, the &#8220; Credit Agreement &#8221;). The Restated Credit Agreement changed the Credit Agreement to an $8.9 million multi-draw term loan credit facility (of which approximately $6.4 million was outstanding and $2.5 million was available to be drawn pursuant to the terms of the Restated Credit Agreement on substantially similar terms as the currently outstanding amounts owed to the Lender); modified the Credit Agreement to adjust certain EBITDA calculations in connection with the purchase of Bango Oil and the sale of the Bango Plant as described above; provide for approval for us to exercise the Purchase Option, enter into and effect the transactions contemplated by the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, Subscription Agreement, and the Sale Agreement, and allow for the issuance of the Fox Note and the Mortgage; confirmed that 

we are required to make payments of $800,000 per quarter from June 30, 2016 through maturity (May 2, 2019); provided us a moratorium on the prepayment of amounts owed under the Restated Credit Agreement as a result of various financial ratios we are required to meet through December 31, 2016; provided for us to retain any business interruption insurance proceeds received in connection with the Bango Plant; provided for us to pay $16 million received at closing from the sale of the Bango Assets, all amounts released from escrow and any other cash proceeds in excess of $500,000 received from the Sale Agreement after closing to the Lender as prepayment of amounts due under the Restated Credit Agreement; allowed us the right to make certain permitted acquisitions moving forward, without further consent of the Lender, provided that among other requirements, such acquisitions are in the same business or line of business as the Company, that such acquired businesses have generated consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the four fiscal quarters preceding such acquisition in excess of capital expenditures for such period (taking into account adjustments acceptable to the Agent for synergies expected to be achieved within the 90 days following the closing of such acquisition), and that the funding for such acquisition comes from certain limited sources set forth in greater detail in the Restated Credit Agreement; adjusted certain fixed charge coverage ratios and leverage ratios we are required to meet on a quarterly basis from September 30, 2016 to maturity; required us to maintain at least $2 million of liquidity at all times; provided that events of default under the Credit Agreement include events of default under the Fox Note; and made various other updates and changes to take into account transactions which had occurred through the date of such agreement, and to remove expired and non-material terms of the prior Credit Agreement. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology, trade secrets, technical know-how and other proprietary information. We also enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees. 

We have two patents registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office relating to our TCEP technology: 

&#8226; 

&#8220; System For Making A Usable Hydrocarbon Product From Used Oil &#8221; (#8,613,838), which was granted on December 24, 2013; and 

&#8226; 

&#8220; Method for Making a Usable Hydrocarbon Product From Used Oil &#8221; (#8,398,847), which was granted on March 19, 2013. 

We also have three patents registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office relating to our base oil and VGO technology which we acquired pursuant to the Heartland Purchase Agreement: 

&#8226; 

&#8220; Used Lubricating Oil Reclaiming &#8221; (#5,306,419), which was granted on April 26, 1994; and 

&#8226; 

&#8220; Reconstituting Lubricating Oil &#8221; (#5,447,628), which was granted on September 5, 1995: and 

&#8226; 

&#8220; Performance Grade Asphalt and Methods &#8221; (#6,203,606), which was granted on March 20, 2001. 

In addition, we have developed a website and have registered www.vertexenergy.com as our domain name, which contains information we do not desire to incorporate by reference herein. 

