 Item 1. Business Company Overview 

We are a global producer and distributor of a broad range of high performance, certified low-emission, power systems that primarily run on non-diesel fuels such as natural gas, propane and gasoline, which are designed to meet emission standards of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the California Air Resources Board (CARB). Our customers include large, multinational original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of off-highway industrial equipment and on-road medium trucks and busses, and we are a sole source provider of alternative fuel power systems for many of these customers. Our industrial power systems are currently used by OEMs in a wide range of industries with a diversified set of applications, including, stationary electricity generators, oil and gas equipment, forklifts, aerial work platforms, industrial sweepers, arbor equipment, agricultural and turf equipment, aircraft ground support equipment, construction and irrigation equipment, and other industrial equipment. 

Our power systems are highly engineered, comprehensive systems customized to meet specific industrial OEM application requirements and technical specifications, as well as requirements imposed by environmental regulatory bodies. Our power system configurations range from a basic engine block integrated with appropriate fuel system components to completely packaged power systems. We purchase engines from third party suppliers and produce internally-designed engines, both of which are then integrated into our power systems. A substantial portion of the components we integrate into our power systems consist of internally designed components and components for which we coordinate significant design efforts with third party suppliers; the remainder consist largely of parts that we source off the shelf from third party suppliers. We are able to provide our customers with a comprehensive, emission-certified or non-certified power system which can be incorporated, using a single part number, directly into a customer&#146;s specified application. 

Our alternative fuel power systems meet or exceed emission standards of the EPA and the CARB and represent a cleaner, and typically less expensive, alternative to diesel fuel power systems. While our power systems primarily run on alternative fuels, we also supply EPA and CARB emission-certified standard fuel power systems, and we are one of the largest suppliers of Perkins and Caterpillar diesel power systems under 275 horsepower. We expect that growth in domestic sales of our low-emission power systems will be driven by the substantial breadth of our emission-certified products, as well as increasing domestic and international demand for alternative fuel power systems given increasingly stringent engine emission regulations. We are also experiencing increasing demand for our power systems from international industrial OEMs that manufacture industrial equipment for the U.S. import market. 

In addition to our emission-certified power systems, we produce and distribute non-emission-certified power systems for industrial OEMs for particular applications in markets without emission standards (for example, oil and gas equipment used in Canada). Approximately 73% of our net sales for 2015 consisted of sales of emission-certified products, of which approximately 57% consisted of sales of emission certified products for which we hold the applicable regulatory certification, 11% consisted of sales of alternative fuel power systems for which the supplier holds the applicable regulatory certification and 5% consisted of sales of diesel power systems for which the diesel engine supplier holds the applicable regulatory certification. Our remaining sales consisted of non-emission-certified power systems, integrated electrical power generation systems, parts and other components. 

Industry and Market Overview 

Industrial OEM Market 

The off-highway industrial OEM market represents a diversified set of applications and industry categories that include both stationary and mobile industrial equipment including, but not limited to: power generation, oil and gas, material handling, aerial work platforms, sweepers, arbor, welding, airport ground support, agricultural, 

&#160;

turf, construction and irrigation. While the power system requirements for the industrial OEM market bear similarities to the requirements for power systems used in automotive applications, there are substantial application differences between automotive and industrial equipment applications. Torque, start, stop, low speed and, with respect to certain applications, indoor use requirements, make direct use of an automotive power system impractical for use in most industrial equipment applications. Recognizing these differences, the EPA and CARB have issued distinct emission standards and regulations for industrial applications, as compared to those for automotive applications. As a result, there is not a direct crossover of available automotive power systems into the industrial OEM market. Power systems used in the industrial OEM market must satisfy these emission standards through a certification process with the EPA and CARB that includes durability testing of the engine emission system at zero and 5,000 hours, production line testing on a quarterly basis and field compliance audit testing. Given the level of engineering and financial resources that automotive engine manufacturers would need to dedicate to supply emission-certified product into the industrial OEM market, and given this market does not represent a core business for these manufacturers, automotive engine manufacturers do not typically compete in the industrial OEM market. 

Industrial OEM power systems use internal combustion engines (both diesel and spark-ignited), as well as electric motors. Diesel engine systems, which use compression to initiate ignition to burn fuel, in contrast with spark-ignited engine systems which use a spark plug to initiate the combustion process, currently represent the dominant power systems, depending on the specific industrial application involved. For example, diesel powered equipment is generally used in outdoor industrial applications, while electric motors and alternative fuel, spark-ignited power systems are used for indoor industrial applications where carbon monoxide and air quality issues must be addressed. Both diesel power systems and electric motors have significant limitations. Diesel power systems present unique emission compliance challenges, while electric motors are often not feasible alternatives in industrial applications as a result of limitations on battery storage capacity. These challenges present opportunities to increase demand for spark-ignited power systems within the industrial OEM marketplace. 

Market Trends 

The market for our power systems is continuing to grow globally as a result of several key drivers. 

Increasingly Stringent Regulations and Growing Efforts to Reduce Emissions 

Concerns regarding climate change and other environmental considerations have led to the implementation of laws and regulations that restrict, cap or tax emissions in the automotive industry and throughout other industries. In particular, EPA Tier 4 emission standards, CARB regulations, and policies in Europe, generally referred to as Stage I, II, III and IV regulations, are requiring a significant reduction in the level of emissions and particulate matter produced by diesel power systems. OEMs have experienced pressure to redesign their products to address these emission regulations, as products that are unable to meet emission standards may not be sold in the marketplace. However, we believe few suppliers to industrial OEMs have been capable of providing, or are willing to make the investments of time, financial, and other resources necessary to provide products that meet these more stringent emission regulations. 

More stringent EPA and CARB emission regulations associated with diesel power systems have taken effect and are increasing both the cost and product footprint (in other words, the size of the power system) of diesel power products. Internal combustion engines generally produce emissions of carbon monoxide, unburned hydrocarbons (organic compounds consisting entirely of hydrogen and carbon that can be emitted as a result of incomplete fuel combustion and fuel evaporation), and oxides of nitrogen (highly reactive gases formed when oxygen and nitrogen in the air react with each other during combustion), and diesel engines produce particularly high levels of these pollutants. In addition, diesel engines produce particulate matter, which is among the areas of focus of these emission regulations. In 2004, the EPA adopted rules introducing Tier 4 emission standards which significantly reduce permitted emissions of oxides of nitrogen and particulate matter, and restrict hydrocarbon 

&#160;

emissions, for off-road diesel engines of various sizes. The most recent standards adopted were initially implemented in 2008 and were phased in through 2015. As an example of the increasingly stringent standards to which diesel engines are subject, the most recent permitted levels, which began in 2012, of particulate matter for on-road diesel engines were reduced by approximately 90% from 2009 permitted levels. As a result, manufacturers and suppliers of diesel power systems, in comparison to spark-ignited power systems, face greater challenges in complying with the new emission regulations. A manufacturer of diesel power systems must expend significant resources to develop a compliant power system, often through incorporation of additional components into a power system to reduce levels of particulate and other emissions. These additional components increase the footprint of the diesel engine, as well. This can be a lengthy and expensive process. Based upon our experience with customers and suppliers, and on additional information provided by Power Systems Research, Inc., industrial OEMs are experiencing cost increases of between 30% and 100% for a comprehensive diesel power system with combustion and after-treatments incorporated to satisfy the new requirements. Furthermore, these emission regulations create not only a cost but also a footprint disadvantage for a diesel power system, when compared to a spark-ignited, emission-certified power system. 

Additionally, countries outside of the United States have historically adopted emission regulations aligned with those of the U.S., and accordingly, it is anticipated that regulations comparable to current and future EPA and CARB emission regulations will be implemented internationally. For example, as previously noted, policies implemented in Europe, generally referred to as Stage I, II, III and IV regulations, regulate emissions of off-road mobile equipment. Similar to emission regulations in the U.S., these regulations in Europe call for reductions in emissions of hydrocarbons, oxides of nitrogen and particulate matter, to be phased in over a period of time. If foreign jurisdictions continue to adopt emission regulations consistent with those of the U.S., it is expected that the international industrial OEM market will experience similar pressures to use cost effective, emission-certified power systems. 

Increased Use of Alternative Fuels 

A variety of market factors are contributing to the increased use of alternative (non-diesel) fuels and growth of alternative fuel technology, including economics, energy independence, environmental concerns, and the widespread availability of alternative fuels. Historically, the price of alternative fuels such as natural gas or propane has been substantially less than diesel, and alternative fuels generally produce lower amounts of toxic greenhouse gases and noxious emissions. In the United States, significant domestic propane and natural gas fuel reserves have been identified, and it is believed these reserves could satisfy much of the energy needs of the U.S. for many years. According to a 2013 report published by the Potential Gas Committee (PGC), a nonprofit organization composed of experts working in the natural gas field, the U.S. future natural gas supply at the end of 2012 was 2.7 trillion cubic feet (consisting of PGC&#146;s assessments of technically recoverable resources combined with the U.S. Department of Energy&#146;s latest determination of proved reserves), which represents an increase of 22.1% from 2010 levels as determined by PGC. The abundance of domestic natural gas resources is expected to increase U.S. energy independence by reducing oil imports from foreign countries. As a result of these market factors, we believe the use of alternative fuels will continue to grow and providers of equipment in industrial OEM categories, such as power generation, that rely significantly on coal and diesel fuel, will face increasing pressure to use alternative fuel power systems. 

Additionally, the infrastructure supporting alternative fuels in the United States and Asia continues to expand. Further, the United States and some other countries have taken action to increase demand and support for alternative fuels, in an effort to reduce dependence on imported oil, capitalize on domestic natural gas reserves and reduce emissions from diesel engines. For example, the EPA has provided subsidies in the form of grants and other financing programs for the advancement of alternative fuel technologies (to date directed primarily towards on-road vehicles). Additionally, industry organizations, such as the Propane Education and Research Council, an organization authorized by the U.S. Congress with the passage of the Propane Education and Research Act, award grants to a wide variety of institutions, businesses, universities and government organizations for the continued research, development, demonstration and commercialization of alternative fuel technologies. 

&#160;

Industrial OEMs Outsourcing Research and Development of Power Systems 

Industrial OEMs have been following the broader marketplace trend of outsourcing non-core functions. The dynamics of global sourcing and the need for cost competitiveness have led, and should continue to lead, industrial OEMs to assess what operations and system components are core to their business model and what they should outsource to their suppliers and partners. In particular, to comply with frequently changing environmental regulations while remaining competitive, industrial OEMs have been increasingly more reliant on outsourcing to third party suppliers and partners with specialized regulatory and design expertise. This is especially true for international OEMs seeking access to the U.S. market. By outsourcing power system design and production, OEMs are able to focus their resources on overall design and functionality of their products, rather than on developing the sophisticated technology associated with emission-certified power systems. We expect increasingly more industrial OEMs to outsource power systems, system components and subsystems to third party suppliers with the requisite experience and technology. 

Penetration by International Suppliers into Regulated Markets 

The implementation of emission regulations domestically and in non-U.S. markets also impacts international suppliers of industrial equipment products outside these regulated markets. International industrial OEMs that supply into regulated industrial OEM markets, including those already doing so and those recognizing emerging opportunities to sell their products into these markets, must meet applicable emission requirements, like those imposed by the EPA and CARB in the U.S. For example, Chinese and other Asian suppliers have recognized that, in order to effectively penetrate and sell into emission regulated industrial OEM markets like North America and Western Europe, their products must be emission-certified. These international industrial OEMs historically have lacked the regulatory and design expertise necessary to develop their own emission-certified power systems. Furthermore, they recognize that, even if they had or could acquire the relevant expertise, it can be much less time consuming and much more cost-effective for them to acquire compliant power systems from third-party suppliers, rather than internally developing and manufacturing their own solutions. Accordingly, just as domestic industrial OEMs are outsourcing this function, so too are international industrial OEMs, and we expect this trend to continue. 

Growing Demand for Sophisticated Electronic Technology and Automotive Grade Quality Standards 

Demanding automotive grade quality, as well as on-time delivery, has become standard practice in the industrial OEM marketplace. Consistent with the trend in the automotive industry, the level of technology and sophistication, including electronic controls, associated with industrial OEM power systems has advanced significantly to meet the growing demand for improved quality, reliability and performance. This has led to an ongoing reduction in the number of suppliers capable of supporting such product requirements. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

For over 30 years we have had a history and reputation as a proven supplier of cost-effective, technologically advanced products to the industrial OEM marketplace. We believe that our technological superiority and the comprehensive nature of our product offerings position us to capitalize on developing trends in the industrial OEM markets and drive significant future growth. 

Broad Range of Alternative Fuel Power Systems 

Our power systems represent a broad range of emission-certified, alternative fuel products for industrial applications. We are one of only a few providers of industrial OEM products that meet, and in many cases produce emissions at levels significantly lower than, the emission standards of the EPA and CARB. Our alternative fuel engines range in size from under 1 liter to 22 liters and our power system configurations include any combination of cooling systems, electronic systems, air intake systems, fuel systems, housings, power 

&#160;

takeoff systems, exhaust systems, hydraulic systems, enclosures, brackets, hoses, tubes and other assembled componentry. We provide standardized fuel system and component technology across our entire range of emission-certified and non-certified power systems. As a result, our OEM customers are able to focus internal engineering and technical support resources, and train their personnel, on one standardized fuel system and one set of electronic controls employed throughout the range of power systems they acquire from us, and are able to reduce their product design and ongoing product support costs. 

We believe our broad range of alternative fuel products strategically positions us to capitalize on the cost and packaging disadvantages associated with diesel power systems that are resulting from increased EPA and CARB emission regulations that are taking effect. Given the existing dominance of diesel power systems in the industrial OEM marketplace, even a minor shift in the marketplace from diesel to spark-ignited, alternative fuel power systems will represent a significant growth opportunity for us. Additionally, as international OEMs desire to supply industrial equipment products into the United States and must meet EPA and CARB emission requirements, we provide a fast, certain, cost-effective route for these foreign industrial OEMs to meet these emission requirements because we hold compliance certificates specific to our power systems. We have already secured commercial sales relationships with some of Asia&#146;s largest industrial OEMs, and supply EPA and CARB compliant power systems to these industrial OEM customers for incorporation into their product lineups. 

Leverageable, OEM-Focused Business Model 

We are able to take advantage of opportunities for component standardization across industry categories, while still providing each industrial OEM with the flexibility to customize as required for particular design and application specifications. We aggregate our product development efforts, and can amortize associated costs, over our large and diverse OEM customer base and across industry categories. Furthermore, we capitalize on volume, economies of scale and global supply opportunities when sourcing component products. We can, therefore, provide our OEM customers with lower cost structures than they would otherwise be able to achieve on their own and help them reduce their part numbers and supply base by consolidating their procurement and assembly efforts down to a single part number product supplied by us. Our component sourcing relationships further enable our OEM customers to recognize resource reductions, inventory reductions and engineering support advantages. 

&#160;

Additionally, our relationships with international OEM customers that supply their industrial equipment into the United States generate opportunities for us to further supplement our business. We believe that once one of our emission-certified power systems is engineered into a foreign industrial OEM&#146;s product, that OEM is likely to also incorporate our power systems into its products that do not require emission-compliant power systems. This use by foreign industrial OEMs of our power systems for both their emission-certified and non-emission-compliant power system needs reduces ongoing engineering, aftermarket and field service support requirements, while supporting a product strategy that can easily be adjusted to any future worldwide changes in emission requirements. These relationships further provide us with growth opportunities beyond those dependent upon U.S. demand for emission regulated products, and solidify our supplier and partnership position with our foreign industrial OEM customers. Moreover, even if our relationship with an international OEM customer is limited to United States compliant power systems, we are able to provide additional emission-compliant power systems in the future as emission regulations for industrial equipment begin to emerge that align with regulations in the U.S. 

&#160;

Superior Technology 

We are a recognized leader in providing industrial OEMs with highly engineered, technologically superior, emission-certified power systems that cover a wide range of possible fuel alternatives. Our power system development and manufacturing processes are supported by in-house design, prototyping, testing and engineering capabilities. We believe our customers are able to realize significant costs savings by leveraging our proven power system technology, our application engineering expertise, the broad range of our EPA and CARB emission-certified power systems and our industrial equipment testing and certification processes. They are also able to focus their efforts on the development of operations and system components core to their business, without having to expend considerable resources and costs associated with the emission certification process, which may require years to perform durability testing of the engine emission system at zero and 5,000 hours, production line testing on a quarterly basis and field compliance audit testing, each of which is mandated and regulated by the EPA and CARB. 

The level and range of our EPA and CARB emission-certified products offering further demonstrates the strength of our technology. Our emission-certified products meet all current existing emission standards of the EPA and CARB. We are able to maintain and enhance our position as a supplier of technologically sophisticated, emission-certified power systems through our experienced and technologically savvy team of application engineers. This team gives us the ability to support and integrate our power systems into a significant number of industrial OEM applications. We believe that our continued recruitment and development of talented personnel will augment our ability to stay ahead of emerging technologies in the industrial OEM marketplace. 

Further, we are not captive to our own internal manufactured components and technology. Unlike some of our competitors that focus on developing and manufacturing most of their own product technology and components, we believe that superior technology is derived from having the flexibility to incorporate the best proven technology available in the marketplace. This affords us the flexibility to capitalize on current and emerging technology that best meets the requirements of any given application, as opposed to only using internally-developed technology that might not provide the best solution. As a result, we believe we have access to the best proven technology in the marketplace. We believe this strategy puts us in a strong position to benefit from our significant OEM customer base and aggregation capabilities in order to provide the best available product and technology solutions for our OEM customers. 

Dedicated Customer-Centric Product and Application Expertise 

We have a customer-centric business focus, and we continually strive for customer satisfaction at all levels of customer interaction. We commit our attention and efforts to nurturing and expanding relationships with our customers by staying connected with them, being aware of challenges they face and understanding their evolving needs. From production personnel to our customer support staff, our entire team is highly experienced in both the products we sell and the OEM customer applications into which they are integrated. Through our extensive experience in the industrial OEM marketplace and our adaptive technology strategy that we use in developing our power systems, we are able to accept the specific requests of individual customers and provide tailored power systems to meet their needs. We assign a dedicated engineer to each OEM customer for application support and to provide a direct line of communication between the OEM&#146;s manufacturing line and our production operations. Our quality, field service support and service operations provide knowledgeable and responsive support to our OEM customers at every point of customer interface. 

Growth Strategy 

Our core strategy is to develop comprehensive power systems for the global industrial OEM marketplace. We believe that, with our competitive advantages, our continued pursuit of our core strategy will drive growth in our business. More specifically, we intend to seek future growth as follows: 

Expand Products and Services Provided to Existing OEM Customers 

We continually work to capitalize on organic growth opportunities and build upon our strong existing customer relationships, which in many cases are on a sole source basis. We plan to expand our business with 

&#160;

existing customers by supporting their growth initiatives as they expand their product lines, enter new markets, and adapt to changing emission standards. We also intend to develop and sell new products to our OEM customers as we broaden our range of emission-certified, alternative fuel power systems. 

Establish New Industrial OEM Relationships 

We expect to strengthen our OEM customer base by developing new relationships with industrial OEMs. We seek to acquire new customers and gain new business from OEMs that we do not presently serve by focusing our marketing efforts toward these potential customers and capitalizing on our strong reputation; the depth, breadth and technological sophistication of our power systems; our commitment to customer service; and the cost savings we can offer. Emphasizing our experience and reputation in market categories in which our power systems are already well-established, such as power generation, we are focused on establishing new industrial OEM relationships and capturing a greater portion of the market share. We are also targeting new OEM customers in high-growth market categories, such as on-road and material handling applications, while maintaining and enhancing our penetration in market categories that are growing more slowly. As we gain traction in emerging and high growth markets that did not previously represent significant opportunities for our power systems, we plan to further focus our efforts on potential customers in those categories. 

Expand Into New Geographic Markets 

We are focused on expanding our business internationally with OEM customers that require EPA and CARB compliant power systems to access the U.S. market and for non-compliant systems used in products sold outside the U.S. In 2012, we entered into a China-based joint venture with MAT Holdings, Inc. for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling and selling certain engines into the Asian market, initially focusing on the forklift market. In late 2014, we entered into a joint venture with Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd., Doosan PSI, LLC, to design, develop, produce, market and distribute industrial gas power systems to the global power generation market outside of North America and South Korea. Furthermore, because we expect countries outside of the United States to implement emission regulations that are aligned with U.S. standards, we anticipate an opportunity to expand our relationships with industrial OEMs that supply emission-compliant products outside of the U.S. If such emission regulations are implemented consistent with our expectation, we anticipate being able to provide power systems to industrial OEMs that meet applicable foreign emission standards by leveraging our existing technology and experience in developing our EPA and CARB emission-certified products. 

Develop New Products 

By leveraging the deep industry experience of our engineering and new product development teams, we are working to broaden the range of our power system product offerings, including engine classes and the industrial OEM market categories into which we supply our products. We capitalize on our technologically sophisticated, in-house design, prototyping, testing and application engineering capabilities to further refine our superior spark-ignited power system technology. We plan to apply our experience and expertise in developing comprehensive, integrated green power systems to expand our spark-ignited alternative fuel offerings. 

Selectively Pursue Complementary Strategic Transactions 

We may enter into strategic transactions, such as acquisitions of, or joint ventures or partnerships with, companies that present complementary non-organic growth opportunities. Specifically, we will seek opportunities that extend or supplement our presence into new geographic markets or industrial OEM market categories, expand our customer base, add new products or service applications or provide significant operating synergies. During 2015, we acquired Powertrain Integration (Powertrain), a leading designer and integrator of engines for Class 3 through Class 7 medium duty trucks and busses for the North American and Asian market. This acquisition expands our customer base and provides a foray into medium duty truck platform space in the United States. During 2014, we acquired Professional Power Products, Inc. (&#147;3PI&#148;), a designer and manufacturer of large, custom engineered, integrated electrical power generation systems serving the global diesel and natural 

&#160;

gas power generation market. This acquisition extends our global reach and broadens our product offerings. We believe that there may be additional domestic or international strategic opportunities available to us as the sophistication of technology and amount of resources necessary to develop and supply power systems that meet increasingly stringent emission standards continue to increase. 

Expand into On-Road Markets 

We have developed an internally designed, state-of-the-art, 8.8 liter fuel flexible engine that we sell into both the industrial market (off-road) and the truck and bus market (on-road). This unique engine has been designed to be easily integrated as a drop-in solution for both off-road and on-road OEM applications. During 2014, the EPA certified our 8.8-liter propane and natural gas fueled engine for on-road applications. This engine has a wide range of applications, including vocational trucks, school and transit buses, medium-duty delivery fleets, recreational vehicles, tow and utility trucks, and waste-hauling trucks. While competitive spark-ignited engines are typically derived from light duty pickup trucks, our 8.8L engine was designed specifically to replace a diesel engine. This requirement led us towards a purpose built, low-speed torque intensive power system with little crossover with light duty automotive applications. The resulting design can be bolted into the chassis where a more expensive diesel engine previously sat. This engine strategically positions us with a comprehensive range of powertrains for vehicles in the Class 3 through Class 7 truck and bus market and the aforementioned acquisition of Powertrain Integration has strengthened our position. 

Company History 

Founded in 1985, we began as a Perkins diesel power system distributor, and we sought to break the then-prevalent OEM focus on the diesel engine as a commodity by providing value-added engineering, procurement and packaging of products and services to the industrial OEM marketplace. Because of our expanded product and service offerings, we played a significant role in moving the industrial OEM marketplace from a simple, engine-centric model to a more comprehensive model. This comprehensive power system model includes engineering, procurement and packaging solutions for cooling, electronics, air intake, fuel systems, power takeoff, exhaust, hydraulics and packaging application requirements. Through implementation of our strategy, we grew our diesel power system sales and became one of the largest Perkins diesel power system distributors in the world, a position we still maintain today. 

Our desire to expand our product and service offerings, coupled with the success of our strategy in the diesel marketplace, motivated us to move into the spark-ignited power systems marketplace. Beginning in the mid-1990s and continuing through today, we have applied our strategy to spark-ignited gasoline and alternative fuel products. In applying our extensive, prior experience developing power systems for our diesel power system OEM customers to the spark-ignited industrial OEM marketplace, and addressing the growing demand for diesel alternatives as a result of environmental and economic considerations, we have developed a comprehensive range of alternative fuel power systems. As a result, we have become a significant supplier of power systems to prominent OEM customers located throughout North America, as defined by the continent to which we ship a product. Sales to OEM customers located throughout North America represent approximately 91% of our net sales in 2015. We also sell our power systems to OEM customers located throughout the Pacific Rim (approximately 7% of our net sales in 2015) and Europe (approximately 2% of our net sales in 2015). 

On April 29, 2011, our company, The W Group, Inc. completed a reverse acquisition transaction with Format, Inc. (which is now Power Solutions International, Inc.), in which PSI Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation that was newly-created as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Format, merged into The W Group, and The W Group remained as the surviving corporation of the merger. In that transaction, The W Group became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Power Solutions International, Inc. 

Format was incorporated in the state of Nevada on March 21, 2001 for the purpose of providing EDGARization service to various commercial and corporate entities. Due to the nominal operations and assets of Format, this reverse acquisition transaction was accounted for as a recapitalization. 

&#160;

The reverse recapitalization transaction was consummated under Delaware corporate law pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger. Upon completion of the reverse recapitalization, Format changed its name to Power Solutions International, Inc. All of the outstanding shares of common stock of The W Group held by the three stockholders of The W Group at the closing of the reverse recapitalization converted into shares of our common and preferred stock. These shares represented a substantial majority of the shares of our common stock and shares of preferred stock outstanding immediately following the consummation of the reverse recapitalization transaction. As a result of the reverse recapitalization, Power Solutions International, Inc. succeeded to the business of The W Group. On August 26, 2011, we completed a migratory merger and Power Solutions International, Inc., a Nevada corporation, merged into its wholly-owned subsidiary, Power Solutions International, Inc., a Delaware corporation. Power Solutions International, Inc., a Delaware corporation, continued as the surviving entity of the migratory merger. Pursuant to the migratory merger, among other things, our shares of preferred stock converted into shares of our common stock, we effected a 1-for-32 reverse stock split of our common stock and we changed our state of incorporation from Nevada to Delaware. 

Our Products and Industry Categories 

Power Systems for Off-Highway Industrial Equipment 

Our power systems are customized to meet specific industrial OEM application requirements. Power system configurations range from a basic engine block integrated with appropriate fuel system components to completely packaged power systems that include any combination of cooling systems, electronic systems, air intake systems, fuel systems, housings, power takeoff systems, exhaust systems, hydraulic systems, enclosures, brackets, hoses, tubes and other assembled componentry. 

Our power systems include (1) EPA and CARB emission-certified spark-ignited water-cooled internal combustion engines ranging from 0.97 liters to 22 liters, which use alternative fuels and gasoline, (2) non-certified spark-ignited water-cooled internal combustion engines ranging up to 22 liters, which similarly use alternative fuels and gasoline, and (3) emission-certified Perkins engines ranging from 0.5 liters to 7.1 liters, which use diesel fuel. Our diesel and alternative fuel power systems use water-cooled (as opposed to air-cooled), multi-cylinder engines. 

Our products are sold into a diversified set of markets within the industrial OEM industry, including power generation, oil and gas, material handling, aerial work platforms, sweepers, arbor products, welding, airport ground support, agricultural, turf, construction and irrigation. Different types of power systems are used within different industry categories (from which we receive varying, unequal amounts of revenues). 

Power Generation 

We offer EPA and CARB emission-certified power systems, including 0.97 liter to 22 liter power systems that use alternative fuels, for stationary emergency and non-emergency power generation products. Emergency engines are stationary engines which operate solely in emergency situations and during required periodic testing and maintenance. Examples include engines used in generators to produce power for critical networks when electrical power from the local utility provider is interrupted, and stand-by engines that pump water in the event of a fire or flood. Non-emergency products include prime power generation products, which produce continuous generation of power for an extended period of time, and peak shaving products, which generate power at times of maximum power demand. 

We currently supply our power systems to a substantial number of manufacturers of power generation products. We believe that our customers choose our power systems because of our broad range of emission-certified, spark-ignited power systems for this industry category. Additionally, by using a common fuel system and electronic controls across our range of power systems, we provide our customers with the opportunity to support and train their personnel on one standardized fuel system and one set of electronic controls employed throughout the range of products they acquire from us. 

&#160;

Oil and Gas 

The oil and gas market category includes oil field pumps/components, compressors, on-site power generation and other machines and equipment used in the production of oil and gas. Previously, OEMs competing in these markets were generally not concerned about fuel economy, cost of repair or efficiency of operation. Today, however, there is a growing focus in this market category on, and understanding of, the costs associated with down time, the value of fuel savings with more economical solutions and the benefits of using product portfolios with consistent fuel systems and aftermarket support. We provide a power generation system to completed wells that is significantly more cost competitive when compared to the cost of using diesel fuel or utility grid power. Our power systems are capable of burning free well-head gas, thereby providing a distinct opportunity for oil producers to save on their operating expenses which becomes more important as the cost per barrel of oil decreases, as has happened during 2015. When the price of oil declines, oil becomes a more favorable source of fuel in the short term and alternative fuel systems can suffer. Our focus is not with the rigs doing the drilling inherent in oil exploration and requiring significant capital costs, but on the completed wells where existing production is far less sensitive to oil price volatility than is exploration. We believe that our installed base of flare gas fueled generators to the existing number of wells leaves us with significant future opportunities for our power systems in this market category, especially as oil prices rebound. 

We are continuing to develop relationships with oil and gas companies for their well head jacks, compressors and power generators. We provide pre-certified, as opposed to site-certified, power systems. Site certification is a tedious and costly process for oil and gas equipment OEMs that can take many hours to source components and integrate them into existing fuel system hardware (if even possible). 

Material Handling &#151; Forklift Trucks 

The material handling market category includes forklift trucks and other mobile products used for movement, handling and storage of materials within a facility or at a specific location. We provide spark-ignited power systems into the high volume 1.5, 3.5 and 5 ton capacity forklift markets, and may expand production in the future to support the 8 and 10 ton forklift markets in connection with anticipated increases in diesel prices resulting from regulations on diesel engines that took effect in 2015. 

Demand is currently strong in the United States for our material handling power systems as a result of emission and OSHA regulations. Based upon data supplied by Power Systems Research, Inc., we believe that, in the United States, nearly 100% of the indoor forklift market uses spark-ignited liquid propane gas or electric powered units (with approximately equal market shares), in contrast to Asian and European forklift markets which currently use diesel in excess of 80% of all applications. In connection with the implementation of EPA Tier 4 and European Stage IV regulations, and the resulting price increases related to the compliance of diesel engines with these regulations, we expect foreign markets for spark-ignited liquid propane gas power systems to grow. We expect this growth to drive increased international demand for our power systems. 

Aerial Work Platforms 

The aerial work platforms market category consists of aerial work platforms, or machines used to provide access to areas typically inaccessible because of their height. Rental companies represent a majority of all purchasers in this industry category. We currently sell our liquid propane gas/gasoline dual fuel power systems to aerial work platform OEMs. 

As a result of the increase in diesel engine pricing related to the implementation of EPA Tier 4 regulations, we expect to see an increase in the number of OEMs in the aerial work platforms market which consider our liquid propane gas and gasoline powered power systems as an alternative to diesel powered power systems. 

&#160;

Industrial Sweepers 

The industrial indoor sweeper market category consists of machines that clean and sweep various indoor surfaces. The power systems for this market category use both spark-ignited and diesel engines, as well as electric motors. We currently sell our 30 to 80 horsepower liquid propane gas and gasoline power systems to industrial indoor sweeper OEMs. 

Arbor Products 

The arbor products market category includes wood chippers and grinders. We currently provide engines to four of the largest OEMs of wood chippers in the United States. We also design and manufacture our own proprietary power take-off clutch, which may be applied to any of our arbor product power systems. See &#147;&#151; Other Engine Power Products &#151; Power Take Off (&#147;PTO&#148;) Clutch Assemblies for Industrial Applications.&#148; 

We believe that our diesel power systems maintain a leading position in the market for wood chippers that use water-cooled engines. We believe the diesel regulations that took effect in 2015 have caused EPA Tier 4 diesel engine packages to become more expensive and, as a result, have opened the market for consideration of our gasoline and other alternative fuel engine packages. 

Other Industry Categories 

We provide power systems within other industrial OEM markets, including welding, airport ground support, agricultural, turf, construction and irrigation. 

Power Systems for On-Road and Off-Road equipment 

We have developed an internally designed, state-of-the-art, 8.8 liter fuel flexible engine that we sell into both the industrial market (off-road) and the truck and bus market (on-road). This unique engine has been designed to be easily integrated as a drop-in solution for both off-road and on-road OEM applications. 

Other Engine Power Systems Products 

Power Take Off (PTO) Clutch Assemblies for Industrial Applications 

We design and manufacture our own proprietary PTO clutch assemblies, which are mechanical components that drive separate power to various parts of a given piece of industrial equipment, for industrial applications. Our PTO clutch assemblies are designed for heavy duty industrial applications. 

Customized OEM Subsystems, Kits and Componentry 

Through our global sourcing capabilities, we supply engine packaging, subsystems, kits and componentry associated with cooling systems, electronic systems, air intake systems, fuel systems, housings and power takeoff systems, exhaust systems, hydraulic systems and enclosures to industrial OEMs for incorporation into their applications, in addition to the complete engine power systems we provide to these OEMs. 

Connected Asset Services 

We offer connected asset services through MasterTrak, our telematics tool, which consists of a hardware unit and related services. This hardware unit is integrated into OEM equipment, collects critical data from this equipment and transmits this data back to an OEM, service provider or end-user through wireless telecommunications technology. The services allow our customers to see the data and monitor the performance of their equipment. We provide services to our OEM customers that allow these OEMs and their customers to remain connected to their equipment, even as the equipment is being operated in the field. These capabilities and services are in many respects similar to General Motors Company&#146;s &#147; ONSTAR &#174; &#148; (a registered trademark of OnStar LLC) service. 

&#160;

We offer MasterTrak with our engine power systems as a bundled offering, and also on a stand-alone basis both to our OEM customers and to other businesses to which we do not currently supply our power systems. We have also developed a relationship with SmartEquip, based in Norwalk, Connecticut, to incorporate MasterTrak into SmartEquip&#146;s aftermarket service platform for industry suppliers. 

Service and Support 

Aftermarket and Service Parts 

We have extensive aftermarket and service parts programs. These programs consist of: (1) internal aftermarket service parts programs with worldwide sales and distribution capabilities, and (2) internal OEM developed service parts programs for components and products supplied by us. We continue to focus on, and invest in, the aftermarket portion of our business. We have grown our industrial spark-ignited engine parts business by employing experts in the gas engine aftermarket field, increasing our investment in the global sourcing of parts and expanding parts books and online ordering capabilities. We have also developed stocking programs and maintenance kits that enable OEMs, service dealers and distributors to reduce downtime and increase product use. 

We have focused on capturing the aftermarket sales of the value added components that we include in our power systems. With a significant portion of the selling prices of our power systems coming from value added components, this is a large, continuing growth opportunity for our aftermarket business. 

Product and Warranty Support 

We provide technical support and training to our OEM customers. These services include in-plant training and support through web and phone based field service. Our dedicated team of product and application engineers delivers high quality, responsive technical support to our OEM customers. We further support our OEM customers by engaging regional providers to perform warranty service and offer support for our power systems. In general, we reimburse these third-party regional providers for the warranty services that they perform for our power systems. 

Customers 

Our customers include companies that are large, industry-leading and/or multinational organizations that demand best-in-class engineering support, automotive grade product quality and on-time delivery. We believe that the number of competitors capable of supporting not just the sophisticated technology requirements, but also the world class automotive engineering, quality and delivery requirements emphasized by industrial OEMs is limited. We are solidly positioned to capitalize on the diminishing base of suppliers capable of meeting these increasingly stringent customer expectations. In almost every industrial OEM category, we maintain a supplier relationship with two or more of the largest OEMs in that category. 

Our depth of expertise, technical superiority and broad range of product offerings is the underlying basis for our position as a sole source provider of products to a majority of our OEM customers. Our strong customer base, which includes a diversity of customers across industry categories, provides a broad range of opportunities for continued growth. 

Our arrangements with our customers, including our relationships with our industrial OEM customers in Asia, generally do not fix, on other than a short term basis with certain limited exceptions, pricing terms or quantities of our power systems to be sold. They also typically do not mandate exclusivity. Purchases are made by customers on a purchase order basis, with pricing of our power systems driven in large part by the volume of power systems purchased by a particular customer and market-based factors, including the price of raw materials and other components incorporated into our power systems, as well as prices for comparable power systems, if any, offered by our competitors. 

&#160;

Our largest customers, based upon our consolidated revenues in 2015, included Kohler and Hyster-Yale Materials Handling Group, Inc. (formerly NACCO Materials Handling Group Inc.), of which each represented more than ten percent of our 2015 consolidated net sales. Our relationships with these customers are all pursuant to terms and conditions substantially similar to the arrangements described above, including the manner in which prices are determined. Our largest customers change from time to time as a result of various factors, including prevailing market conditions, our customers&#146; strategies (such as their focus on marketing and sales efforts with respect to products into which our power systems are incorporated as compared to their other products) and our customers&#146; existing inventory of our power systems. 

Operations and Research and Development 

Design and Engineering / Research and Development 

Our research and development efforts are market driven. Our sales team first meets to identify and define market requirements and trends and then communicates that vision to our engineering and new product development groups. Our engineering and new product development groups then review our existing power system portfolio and develop new solutions that build upon the technology within that portfolio. We maintain in-house design, prototyping, testing and application engineering capability, including specialists in EPA and CARB certification, fuel systems, electronics, cooling systems, mechanical engineering and application engineering. Our design and application engineering expertise and capabilities include expertise in (1) emissions compliance, (2) design and development of standardized and customized products for incorporation into industrial and on-road equipment, (3) three-dimensional solid modeling and finite element analysis, (4) computer-based modeling and testing, (5) rapid OEM product prototyping, (6) industrial OEM product retrofitting and testing and (7) support for application engineering and system integration. 

We also rely upon engineering outsourcing relationships for design, development and product testing that allow us to fulfill demands for specialty services and satisfy fluctuating workload requirements. In particular, since 2009, we have used outside engineering relationships to supplement product design, development and testing services as dictated by demands from our industrial OEM customers. We require these third-party engineering service providers to treat all design, development and testing information provided to them as confidential. In addition to these engineering outsourcing relationships, where applicable, we also benefit from the design, development and testing capabilities of our supplier base. 

We provide the design, durability testing, validation testing and compliance with other engineering and administrative requirements necessary to meet and obtain EPA and CARB certification for a range of spark-ignited engines. As a result, we provide our OEM customers with emission-certified power systems, without these OEMs having to expend considerable research and development time and resources related to obtaining power system certification. We further provide the tools and services necessary to support revalidation and other EPA and CARB requirements that exist beyond the initial emission compliance requirements. As a result of such revalidation, we become the &#147;manufacturer of record,&#148; which is the entity that holds the applicable regulatory certifications for a power system, for the emission-certified power system. 

We staff our engineering support activities associated with released product and component sourcing programs with dedicated internal engineering personnel, separate from our product and application development engineering team. This allows us to provide committed engineering and technical attention to internal operational support, customer production support and component sourcing activities, thereby helping to buffer the demands placed on our product and application development engineering group. Through such attention and support, we are able to maximize the focus of our product and application development engineering group on current and future design, prototyping, testing and application development activities resulting in shorter design, prototyping and testing cycles for our OEM customer base. 

Our research and development expenditures for our fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 were approximately $19.1 million, $14.9 million and $9.4 million, respectively. 

&#160;

Manufacturing 

We manufacture and assemble our products at our facilities in suburban Chicago, Illinois, Darien, Wisconsin and Madison Heights, Michigan. We customize our power systems to meet specific requirements of industrial OEM applications and the needs of our industrial OEM customers. We have recently invested in machining equipment to hone and finish our internally designed engine blocks, which are initially cast at a supplier&#146;s foundry. We also design and manufacture large, custom engineered integrated electrical power generation systems for both standby and prime power applications. Our production operations encompass all aspects of manufacturing our power systems, which range from fitting a basic engine block with appropriate fuel system components to building a comprehensive power system that includes any combination of cooling systems, electronic systems, air intake systems, fuel systems, housings, power takeoff systems, exhaust systems, hydraulic systems, enclosures, brackets, hoses, tubes and other assembled componentry. 

The manufacturing lines in our production facilities are technologically sophisticated and flexible, and we allocate production capacity on our manufacturing lines to accommodate the demand levels and product mix required by our OEM customers. Our manufacturing lines are equipped with display screens, through which our production personnel are able to monitor design and other technological specifications for each product being assembled on the manufacturing line at that time. The information displayed on these screens is supplied from a central server, which is updated in real-time with all current product information. Through this process, we ensure that the product manufacturing and other specifications used by our production personnel represent the most current information available. We have also developed efficient in-line methods to support specialized product testing, as required by a specific customer or product application. 

Our engineering and manufacturing systems use sophisticated, paperless, integrated, software-based management and control systems. Our warehouse systems include computerized management systems and high speed infrastructure such as wire guided racking systems and high density automated carousel systems. We use a dynamic, software-driven inventory management system, which allows us to accurately monitor inventory levels for our comprehensive power systems, subsystems and individual components. We also incorporate, within our manufacturing process, software that enables us to identify and deliver components and other parts to our OEM customers. 

We focus on safety, quality and on-time delivery in our manufacturing operations. We are 9001-2008 ISO Certified, the highest ISO certification available. The ISO 9000 family of quality management standards, which must be met in order to become ISO certified, is designed to help organizations monitor and improve the quality and delivery of products and/or services to their customers. We also use Six Sigma, a business management strategy designed to minimize variability in manufacturing and business processes, 5S, a workplace organization methodology designed to maximize efficiency and effectiveness, and other disciplines in our goal of continuous improvements in quality and on-time delivery. Structured staff training is a constant priority and includes closed-loop quality monitoring and feedback systems. 

Supplier Relationships 

Engine and Component Suppliers 

We have established relationships with suppliers for the engines to be integrated into our comprehensive power systems, the most significant of which are Doosan, Shenyang Aerospace Mitsubishi Motors Engine Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (&#147;SAME&#148;), General Motors and Perkins/Caterpillar. We also source our other power system components from third party suppliers. We coordinate design efforts with suppliers for some of our key components. In addition, we internally design other parts and components for our products, own the tooling for such parts and components and globally source them from a variety of domestic and global suppliers. Because we design many of our parts and components in-house, we are generally not limited in our choice of suppliers. As such, we are able to select our supplier relationships based upon a supplier&#146;s reliability and performance. 

&#160;

We aggregate our product sourcing efforts across our large and diverse OEM customer base and across industry categories, capitalizing on volume, economies of scale and global supply opportunities. Our OEM customers benefit from the aggregation of our global sourcing, procurement, assembly and packaging services, obtaining cost benefits that they might not obtain if they were to rely on their own internal resources, capabilities and more limited demand requirements. Through this process, industrial OEMs are able to reduce their part numbers and supply base by consolidating their procurement and assembly efforts down to a single part number product supplied by us. We deliver this single assembly to an industrial OEM&#146;s production line as an integrated drop-in to the OEM&#146;s end product. 

Arrangements with Key Suppliers 

We enter into various arrangements with suppliers from which we source engines and other components which are incorporated into our power systems. These arrangements generally govern the terms and conditions upon which we purchase engines, components and other raw materials for use in our power systems. In general, the prices at which we purchase engines, components and other raw materials are based on market factors, including the prices offered by other suppliers operating in the same market and the prevailing market prices of raw materials. The terms of each of the individual arrangements are negotiated with each supplier on an individual basis, but are generally consistent with typical arrangements between manufacturers and suppliers in our industry. 

Under our new expanded distribution agreement with Perkins, we are a distributor of specified Perkins engines within a territory consisting of the states of North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Nebraska, Kansas, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland (including Washington, District of Columbia), West Virginia, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Maine, Rhode Island, Connecticut and New York. In exchange for this expanded territory, we are required to purchase from Perkins all of our requirements for the same or similar engines covered by the agreement. As described in further detail below under &#147;Sales and Marketing; Value-Added Resellers; Distribution &#151; Sales and Marketing; Value-Added Resellers,&#148; under the distribution agreement with Perkins, we are also required to establish a service and support network that provides various services to our customers that purchase power systems which use Perkins engines. The initial term of this distribution agreement with Perkins is currently scheduled to expire on December 31, 2017. 

We are also party to a supply agreement with Doosan, under which we purchase and distribute, on an exclusive basis, specified Doosan engines within a territory consisting of North and Central America. This supply agreement with Doosan automatically renews annually for successive one-year periods but may be terminated with six months&#146; written notice by either party prior to the end of the then-current term. 

Unlike our arrangements with Perkins and Doosan, we do not maintain an exclusive relationship with GM. We receive a pricing package each year (or sometimes more frequently) containing applicable price quotations, as if we operate as an OEM that uses GM engines as a key component of our power systems. Purchases of engines from GM are executed through purchase orders at prices listed in the pricing package under the general terms of sale that GM offers to its OEM customers. 

Sales and Marketing; Value-Added Resellers; Distribution 

Sales and Marketing; Value Added Resellers 

We employ a direct sales and marketing approach to maintain maximum interface with, and service support for, our OEM customers. This direct interface incorporates our internal technical sales representatives. In Asia, we currently complement our direct OEM relationships with a local, independent sales and product support organization. This local sales and support organization provides the necessary knowledge of local customs and requirements, while also providing immediate sales assistance and customer support. In general, we engage third 

&#160;

parties to provide local service and support functions for our power systems sold to our domestic OEM customers on a case by case basis, as necessary. Further, as required by our agreement with Perkins, we have also established a service and support network in our territory, as described under &#147;Supplier Relationships&#148;, which provides various services to our customers that purchase power systems using Perkins engines, including warranty support, servicing of Perkins engines, technical support and parts support (including support for aftermarket parts). 

In Europe, we enter into arrangements with third parties, pursuant to which these third parties resell our power systems (in some cases sold with add-on power system components) to European OEM customers. These value-added resellers also provide application and engineering support for these power systems sold in Europe. We currently sell our power systems to value-added resellers in Europe on a similar basis as our sales to our OEM customers. At any particular point in time, we are typically selling our power systems to between one and five value-added resellers in Europe. 

Aftermarket Distribution 

Our aftermarket and service parts distribution organization consist of three main sales and distribution programs: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; OEM Customers With an In-House, Spark-Ignited Product Service Parts Program: For our OEM customers that maintain their own service parts distribution and product support programs, we supply them with the information and component products required to support an effective global OEM customer service parts program. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; OEM Customers Without an In-House, Spark-Ignited Product Service Parts Program: For our OEM customers that do not maintain their own service parts distribution and product support programs, we maintain a web-based and internal sales-oriented global aftermarket and service parts distribution system for our spark-ignited product and ancillary components. Through this product support program that we provide on behalf of our OEM customers, we capitalize on market opportunities that exist outside of those associated with our OEM customer base. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Perkins Diesel Service Parts Program: We provide Perkins diesel service parts through a network of established service and parts organizations located throughout our distributor territory, as described above under &#147;Supplier Relationships&#148;. Intellectual Property 

Our business depends, in substantial part, upon our proprietary technology, processes, know-how and other confidential and proprietary information. In particular, we consider portions of our emission certification process to be confidential and proprietary trade secrets. In addition to putting our OEM customers&#146; engines through initial emission compliance testing, including durability testing, production line testing and field compliance audit testing, we also provide the tools, and perform sophisticated testing and other services, on these engines to comply with EPA and CARB requirements. As a result of the lengthy and technologically sophisticated testing we perform to revalidate these engines, we become the &#147;manufacturer of record&#148; for the emission-certified power system that is incorporated into our OEM customers&#146; equipment. As the manufacturer of record, we are responsible for compliance with regulations as they relate to our emission-certified power systems (as more fully discussed below under &#147;Government Regulation&#148;). We incur the costs of certification of our power systems, as well as the risk of making sure that these systems remain compliant. Additionally, we use technologically sophisticated development, testing, launching and other manufacturing processes in connection with the manufacturing of our power systems, as well as in coordinating design efforts with power system component suppliers. 

In addition, many of the components we source from our suppliers and which are integrated into our power systems embody proprietary intellectual property of such suppliers. To a limited extent, we also license 

&#160;

proprietary software, much of which is &#147;off the shelf,&#148; from third parties for use in our manufacturing processes, and we also license and rely upon third party technology included in our telematics tool. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and various contract rights to protect our proprietary rights, as well as to protect the intellectual property rights of our suppliers and third party licensors. We do not currently own any material patents, but believe that the policies and safeguards we have in place, together with the costs associated with the development, testing, launch and marketing of competitive products, adequately protect our valuable trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. 

Competition 

We believe we are one of the few providers of comprehensive power systems to the industrial OEM market. However, the market for our products and related services is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and sensitive to new product and service introductions and changes in technical requirements. Some competitors have longer operating histories, strong name recognition and significant financial and marketing resources. Competition in our markets may become more intense as additional companies enter them and as new technologies are adopted. Generally, we believe that the principal competitive factors for our business include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Completeness and comprehensiveness of power systems; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Range of power systems employing a common technology platform; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Emissions regulation (EPA and CARB) compliance and certification; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Industry leading product and applications engineering; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Ease of installation; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Pricing and cost effectiveness; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Breadth of product offerings, including system power and fuel alternatives; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Ability to tailor power systems to specific customer needs; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Performance and quality; and Customer support and service. 

We believe that, with our current product lineup and our ongoing research and product development efforts, as well as our global procurement capabilities, we are able to compete effectively based on each of these factors. 

Among our competitors are fuel system providers such as Westport Innovations, Inc., Fuel System Solutions and Woodward Governor, Inc. These companies supply engines and engine system componentry into the industrial OEM marketplace. However, we do not believe that any of the other fuel system providers with which we compete are able to provide the single assembly, integrated, comprehensive power systems that our OEM customers demand and that we provide on a cost-effective basis. Further, some of our competitors do not have the internal resources or capabilities to enable them to meet these customer requirements and, in their efforts to compete, sometimes rely upon third party logistic companies to fit and dress engine systems with specific engine parts and components which these competitors are unable to provide themselves. As a result of the changing environment of the marketplace, some fuel system providers have been forced into non-core competency areas and some have exited the marketplace entirely. 

Other competitors have been automotive engine companies, but a number have ceased directly supplying power systems to industrial OEMs (although they continue to supply their standard engines and components to producers of power systems for this market). They have left this market primarily because production of emission-compliant and certified industrial engines is not in their core competency area and because the changing regulations create difficulties for them, as engine life spans are short. More generally, we believe that 

&#160;

the significant costs associated with developing and certifying emission-compliant power systems as applicable regulations change have led some companies to exit our markets and have deterred others from entering them. 

Government Regulation 

Our Power Systems 

Our power systems are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards governing exhaust emissions, evaporative emissions, Green House Gases (&#147;GHG&#148;) emissions, and noise. Our power systems are subject to compliance with all current regulatory standards imposed by the EPA, state regulatory agencies in the United States, including CARB, and other regulatory agencies around the world. Since our engines are sold into both off-road and on-road markets, we must ensure we are certified to the specific regulations within the applicable statutory segment. Both EPA and CARB have imposed specific regulations on engines used in both off-road equipment and on-road vehicles. These regulations generally serve to restrict exhaust emissions, with a primary focus on oxides of nitrogen, hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide. Exhaust emission regulations for engines used in off-highway industrial equipment vary based upon the use of the equipment into which the engine is incorporated (such as stationary power generation or mobile off-highway industrial equipment), and the type of fuel used to drive the power system. Similarly, on-road regulations from the EPA and CARB focus on the same exhaust constituents, however, GHG&#146;s such as CO2 and methane are also regulated, and are required to demonstrate and certify sophisticated On-Board Diagnostics (&#147;OBD&#148;) monitors that ensure that the vehicle will remain emissions compliant over the useful life of the vehicle. We continue to make significant investments into the necessary intellectual property that supports full compliance of our engines now and into the foreseeable future. 

The first EPA emissions regulations adopted for diesel engines, known as Tier 1, applied to diesel engines used in mobile off-highway applications in the U.S., and similar standards for diesel engines, known as Stage I regulations, were implemented thereafter in Europe. The EPA and applicable agencies in Europe have continued to develop emission regulations for diesel engines in the U.S. and Europe, respectively, and have adopted more restrictive standards. The current diesel engine emission requirements in the U.S are known as Tier 4 and are applicable to off-road diesel engines used in industrial equipment. Similarly, Europe has adopted more restrictive standards under its Stage IV regulations. Tier 4 and Stage IV regulations call for reductions in levels of particulate matter and oxides of nitrogen (by approximately 90% from current levels in a majority of power categories under the Tier 4 requirements). The phase-in of Tier 4 regulations commenced for the smallest engines (based on horsepower) at the beginning of 2008, and the final phase-in of Tier 4 regulations for engines of all sizes was completed in 2015. The phase-in of the Stage IV regulations commenced in 2014 and was completed in 2015. Because we do not sell diesel power systems in Europe, only the Tier 4 regulations directly impact any of our power systems. With respect to our power systems that use Perkins/Caterpillar diesel engines, Perkins/Caterpillar is responsible for all testing and manufacturing processes associated with obtaining original emission certification and continued compliance for its diesel engines. We are not responsible for emissions compliance on Perkins/Caterpillar products, and as a result, Perkins/Caterpillar is ultimately responsible for modifications to its engines necessary to meet these, and any future, emissions regulations. The EPA and CARB have similarly adopted regulations to reduce pollutant exhaust emissions for spark-ignited engines used in off-road equipment. In 2004, the EPA fully introduced Tier 1 exhaust emission regulations for mobile off-highway large spark ignited engines to control hydrocarbon, oxides of nitrogen and carbon monoxide following a phase in program that started in 2001. In 2007, the EPA introduced Tier 2 exhaust emission regulations for off-highway large spark ignited engines which further reduced hydrocarbon and oxides of nitrogen emissions by approximately 33% and carbon monoxide emissions by 91% over Tier 1. In 2010, CARB enacted new exhaust emission regulations for off-highway large spark-ignited engines, for California only, that further reduced hydrocarbon and oxides of nitrogen emissions by 68% over EPA Tier 2. In 2008, the EPA finalized and enacted New Source Performance Standards to regulate emission for stationary off-highway spark-ignited engines to control hydrocarbon, oxides of nitrogen, carbon monoxide and volatile organic compound. 

Our entry into the on-road market began in 2013 with the development of our 8.8L power systems targeted for 2015 regulatory standards. In 2014, EPA and CARB certified our new engine as a Model Year 2015 

&#160;

product for propane and Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) fuels, and in 2015 we launched our first propane fueled engine for on-road application. To assist the adoption of alternative fueled vehicles in the marketplace, the EPA and CARB granted alternative fueled engines an exemption from OBD regulations until 2018. We have leveraged this exemption on our 8.8L certifications to date. Gasoline engines are not exempt from OBD regulations, therefore, we are in the process of full OBD certification for our gasoline 8.8L product. The knowledge gained from this development will be transitioned to our alternative fuel engines for 2018 when the exemption ends. In 2016, the EPA launched new GHG emission regulations. However, we are exempt from these new regulations since we are considered a small business (less than 1000 employees). As we grow, our exemption will sunset and our engines will be enhanced to meet all applicable GHG standards. 

The initial and on-going certification requirements vary by power system application. Each application must undergo a series of rigorous and demanding tests to meet compliance with regulatory standards, including useful life, zero hours and durability testing to meet the appropriate regulatory standards. 

Once a power system is certified, regulatory agencies impose ongoing compliance requirements on us, which include our testing newly produced power systems on a regular quarterly schedule to ensure ongoing compliance with applicable regulations. In addition, there are field audit requirements, which require the removal of power systems from service at specified stages of their useful lives to perform confirmatory exhaust emissions testing. 

All of our emission-certified power systems meet existing exhaust emission standards of the EPA and CARB. Failure to comply with these standards could result in adverse effects on our future financial results. 

Our Telematics Tool 

We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to our telematics tool and connected asset services. Among other things, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the Federal Communications Commission and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. We currently maintain applicable certifications from governmental agencies in each of the jurisdictions in which our telematics tool is required to be so certified. 

Our Operations 

Our operations are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future. Any failure to comply with these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect upon our ability to do business. 

Employees 

As of February 22, 2016, our workforce consisted of approximately 819 persons, including 4 part-time staff. Of this total, approximately 59 persons are individuals whose services we obtain through an arrangement with a professional employer organization and 144 persons are from individuals whose services we obtain through a temporary employment agency. 

None of the members of our workforce are represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe we have a good relationship with the members of our workforce. 

&#160;

