 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. is an in vitro diagnostics company dedicated to providing solutions that improve patient outcomes and lower healthcare costs through the rapid diagnosis of serious infections. Microbiology laboratories are in need of new tools to address what the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention calls one of the most serious healthcare threats of our time, antibiotic resistance. A significant contributing factor to the rise of resistance is the overuse and misuse of antibiotics, which is exacerbated by a lack of timely diagnostic results. The delay of these results is often due to the reliance by microbiology laboratories on traditional culture-based tests that often take two to three days to complete. Our technology platform is built to address these challenges by delivering significantly faster and accurate testing of infectious pathogens in various patient sample types. 

Since 2004, we have focused our efforts on the development of an innovative rapid diagnostic platform, the Accelerate ID/AST System&#8482;, which we refer to as the ID/AST System or Accelerate ID/AST System, intended for the rapid diagnosis of infectious pathogens. Our goal is to reduce the failure rate of initial antibiotic drug therapy by shortening lab turnaround time to hours rather than the two to three days now required to deliver identification and susceptibility results. 

The ID/AST System utilizes genotypic technology to identify, or ID, infectious pathogens and phenotypic technology to conduct antibiotic susceptibility testing, or AST, which determines whether live bacterial or fungal cells are resistant or susceptible to a particular antibiotic. The ID/AST blood culture assay kit, which we refer to as the Blood Culture Assay Kit, is being investigated for its ability to provide ID and AST results for patients suspected of bacteremia or fungemia, both life-threatening conditions with high morbidity and mortality risk. The Blood Culture Assay Kit consists of a highly multiplexed panel of more than 150 individual assays which have the potential to support clinicians in prescribing optimal antibiotic therapy for patients in this critical condition. The final number of assays included in the Blood Culture Assay Kit will depend on the results of our clinical trial to support marketing authorization from the FDA and FDA review of each individual assay for marketing clearance. This panel is designed to cover over 80% of the routine and significant pathogens causing blood stream infections and over 90% of the antibiotics useful in treating those pathogens. On June 30, 2015, we declared our conformity to the European In Vitro Diagnostic Directive 98/79 EC and applied a CE Mark to the Accelerate ID/AST System and the Blood Culture Assay Kit for in vitro diagnostic use. 

We anticipate commercializing the Accelerate ID/AST System in the United States, subject to the successful completion of the U.S. registration trial and submission to and clearance by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;) of our de novo 510(k) for the ID/AST System, which could occur as early as the third quarter of 2016, see Risk Factors for FDA review time line risk. See &#8220;Products&#8221; below for a description of the results from our recent multicenter pilot study and more information regarding our upcoming trial to support marketing authorization from the FDA. 

History 

We were incorporated in 1982 in Colorado under the name Sage Resources Corp., and through a series of subsequent transactions, we became Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., a Delaware corporation, in December 2012. 

From 2001 to 2012, we focused primarily upon furthering the research and development of the OpTest portfolio of technologies (&#8220;OpTest&#8221;) that we acquired from DDx, Inc. in 2001 and the development of revenue producing products related to that technology. The purchase of OpTest provided us with a proprietary surface chemistry formulation, which led to our OptiChem&#174; and other surface chemistry products, and quantitative bio-analytical measurement instruments. 

&#160; 

In 2012, our Board of Directors and management team established a new strategic direction for the Company, which was (1) to focus on the internal development, manufacture, and commercialization of the ID/AST System and (2) to discontinue efforts to develop and actively market OptiChem and our other surface chemistry products. Our Board of Directors and management team decided to pursue this new strategic direction based on the belief that we could internally develop and commercialize the ID/AST System, formerly called the BacCel System. 

Since the adoption of the new strategic direction in 2012, we have made significant investments in research and development personnel, facilities, equipment, and consumables to support the internal development of the ID/AST System. The Company has also invested in the hiring of regulatory, manufacturing, quality, sales, and marketing personnel experienced in the manufacture and commercialization of medical devices. 

&#160; 

The new strategic direction has also required the Company to raise additional capital. In March 2013, the Company obtained additional capital through the exercise of warrants issued to Abeja Ventures, LLC in the aggregate amount of $20.1 million . In August 2013, the Company completed a rights offering that raised gross proceeds of $20.0 million; in April 2014, the Company completed a rights offering that raised gross proceeds of $45.0 million ; and in December 2015, the Company completed a publicly marketed offering that raised additional gross proceeds of $109.3 million . 

Clinical Need 

Antibiotic resistance has a significant healthcare impact, costing the U.S. healthcare system an estimated $55 billion per year. This estimate includes $20 billion in direct costs and $35 billion in indirect costs, such as lost productivity and sick days. Increasing infection rates and misuse of antibiotics results in serious treatment complications. Recent studies have shown that the number of hospital-acquired infections in the United States ranges from 214,700 to 1.4 million per year, contributing to an estimated 75,000 deaths per year. Moreover, inappropriate antibiotic use is widespread. Of the 33 million patients admitted to U.S. hospitals each year, 56% (19 million) are put on empiric antibiotic therapy, of which more than half (9 million) are on inappropriate or unnecessary antibiotics. 

AST is designed to address these challenges. According to a recent company survey of 43 critical care physicians, 95% stated that AST is the most valuable lab test when selecting optimal antibiotic therapy. Studies have shown that even a modest decrease in the time it takes to deliver an AST result correlates to reduced length and cost of hospital stay per patient. One such study showed that a five hour reduction in the time to receive an AST result delivered a two-day reduction in length of stay and a reduction in patient treatment costs of $1,750 per patient. Based on our conversations with potential customers and review of internal time studies, we estimate that the Blood Culture Assay Kit will reduce the time to receive an AST result from the time a sample is taken from a patient by a total of 29 hours on average for the Blood Culture Assay Kit. Based on our analysis, we estimate that the ID/AST System is capable of delivering results in approximately 19 hours from the time a blood sample is taken from a patient, while current solutions take a total of approximately 48 hours to deliver results. 

Market Opportunity 

Recent reports have indicated estimated growth in the hospital-acquired disease testing market, which we believe is a subset of the microbiology market in which we operate, at a combined average growth rate of 19.3% over seven years, from $2.2 billion in 2012 to an estimated $7.5 billion by 2019. We believe this growth is driven by the entrance of new technologies coupled with higher volumes due to enhanced screening, immune-compromised patients and increasing challenges with multidrug-resistant organisms. Across North America, Europe and Asia Pacific geographies, we estimate there are 14.1 million high-acuity tests completed annually across various sample types including blood, respiratory, skin and soft tissue, and urine. We estimate there are 5 million high-acuity tests annually for blood culture samples globally, including over 4 million in North America, Europe and various countries in the Asia Pacific region. Based on this estimated test volume, and an estimated current market price per test of approximately $180, we estimate the total available market of automated microbiological testing to be approximately $2.5 billion annually in North America, Europe and various countries in the Asia Pacific region, of which approximately $725 million is attributed to high-acuity tests for blood culture samples. 

In addition, based on information compiled from various competitor annual reports and other publicly available information, as well as our own estimates, we believe there are nearly 20,000 global instrument placements possible, consisting of approximately 10,000 bioMerieux Vitek 2 installations, 6,000 Danaher Microscan installations and 4,000 instruments from other companies. Based on this estimated total instrument placement volume, and an estimated average price of an instrument sold for use in the microbiology lab today of approximately $100,000, we estimate the total available global instrument market for the ID/AST System to be approximately $2.0 billion. 

Certain recent government initiatives are complementary to the ID/AST System. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (&#8220;CMS&#8221;) programs to decrease hospital-acquired infections directly impact hospital budgets via reimbursement cuts, incentivizing providers to enhance infection-management protocols. These programs include the Medicare Hospital-Acquired Condition Reduction Program and the Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program. 

Similarly, on March 27, 2015, the White House released the National Action Plan for Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria, which directly and indirectly promotes rapid susceptibility testing. The plan identifies several milestones to accomplish this goal, such as calling on the National Institutes of Health to fund new projects and provide prizes aimed at the development of rapid diagnostic tests that characterize antibiotic susceptibility and improve antibiotic stewardship; mandated implementation of antibiotic stewardship programs by all hospitals participating in Medicare and Medicaid, to go into effect within three years; and FDA and CMS&#8217;s evaluation of new regulatory pathways to promote development and adoption of innovative infectious disease diagnostics. 

Products 

The Accelerate ID/AST System is the Company&#8217;s first in vitro &#32;diagnostic system and is intended for the identification and antibiotic susceptibility testing of pathogens most commonly associated with serious infections, including Gram-positive and Gram-negative organisms such as Staphylococcus organisms as well as yeasts. The Accelerate ID/AST System uses long-accepted bacteriological testing principles, but applies the Company&#8217;s proprietary technology to adapt them to analyze live patient bacteria. The Accelerate ID/AST System uses automated digital microscopy to simultaneously detect and identify multiple pathogens directly from a single patient sample and then, following such identification, perform susceptibility tests based on the identification results. This technology eliminates the need for time-consuming traditional bacterial culturing, thus eliminating the major source of delay with current testing methods. The identification result is provided in approximately seventy to ninety-five minutes of presenting the patient sample to the system, and the susceptibility result is provided approximately three to six hours after the presentation of the identification result. In the case of our first test kit for positive blood culture samples a blood culture screening step is required which takes on average twelve hours to complete before the sample is introduced to the ID/AST System. This combined turnaround time is a significant improvement over the days currently required to obtain these results using conventional testing methods. 

The ID/AST System features walk-away automation and consists of a fixed instrument and proprietary single-use test kit. The instrument consists of module(s) connected to a single analysis computer, which allows hospitals to acquire various numbers of modules to address their particular test volume. In order to run a patient sample on the Accelerate ID/AST System the technician would pipette the patient sample into our system, insert the test kit, and initiate the run. In the case of our initial test a positive blood culture sample is introduced to the system through pipetting directly from the blood culture bottle into our test kit. 

The Accelerate ID/AST System is the result of over a decade of technology development and several years of instrument design/engineering. Initially prototype systems featured off-the-shelf pipetting robots, high-speed cameras, microscopes/illumination, and computers. The now final instrument is comprised of custom-engineered functional components, including a pipette robot for fluidic manipulation, an optical system with both dark-field and fluorescent illumination, and an imaging system. These components, among others, are used in the four processes that follow, each of which is a crucial component in delivering the rapid ID and AST results. 

These processes include: 

&#8226; 

Automated specimen preparation. The initial step in the process is the automated purification of samples through an on-board and proprietary process to separate live organisms from sample debris. 

&#8226; 

Live-cell immobilization. Following preparation, the purified sample is moved to the imaging cassette where pathogens are immobilized onto the cassette surface such that they can be imaged and analyzed in a stationary position during the identification and antibiotic susceptibility testing. 

&#8226; 

Identification testing via fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). The now immobilized cells are tested with our proprietary FISH probes to enable identification. Because the genetic sequences of bacteria are distinctive, the binding of fluorescently labeled probes indicates the presence of a specific target sequence of RNA associated with a single or group of bacterial species or yeasts. When the probe finds a targeted sequence, it binds to it&#8212;generating a fluorescent signal&#8212;which is visible by the imaging system on the ID/AST System. Positive fluorescent signals from more than one target probe indicate polymicrobial samples and a universal bacterial stain discriminates target from non-target bacteria/fungi. The identification result is presented on the ID/AST System&#8217;s graphic user interface in approximately seventy to ninety-five minutes from the introduction of the sample into the ID/AST System. 

&#8226; 

Susceptibility testing via live-cell optical analysis. With the identification of the pathogen known, the 

system&#8217;s software determines the antibiotic panel to be used for susceptibility testing. These antibiotics, growth media, and additional patient sample are introduced to additional channels on the optical cassette. Finally, our proprietary imaging platform and algorithms determine the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of the bacteria through the observation of which antibiotics arrested live cell growth and lead to cell death and which antibiotics were ineffective in ceasing live cell growth. The susceptibility test result is presented approximately three to six hours after the conclusion of the identification test. 

The Accelerate ID/AST System in its various iterations has been the subject of over 35 papers and scientific posters. Further, our internal laboratories have conducted thousands of tests on the various prototype systems and the final instrument. Published study abstracts and links to full papers are available on our website at http://acceleratediagnostics.com/our-science/publications/. 

On December 2, 2015, we announced positive findings from a multicenter pilot study to evaluate external performance of our ID/AST System and Blood Culture Assay Kit. Based on the results of the pilot study, we also announced the initiation of a larger trial intended to support 510(k) clearance by the FDA. 

The pilot study included ten external sites and the analysis of 146 fresh de-identified positive blood culture samples from patients and 127 samples seeded with challenging bacterial or fungal isolates. Enrollment for the pilot study followed a protocol similar to our larger upcoming trial to support marketing authorization from the FDA, which is planned to expand to 11 external clinical sites. Our upcoming trial is expected to consist of approximately 2,800 samples (600 fresh patient blood samples and 2,200 seeded samples). The FDA has established a threshold for the ID component of the Blood Culture Assay Kit of 95% or greater sensitivity and specificity. For the AST component, we are seeking to match the predicate method&#8217;s categorical and essential agreement at a rate of 89.9%. Contingent upon successful completion of the larger trial, we plan to submit a 510(k) notification seeking premarket clearance for the Accelerate ID/AST System and Blood Culture Assay Kit. 

The Company will be seeking a single initial FDA submission for the integrated Accelerate ID/AST System and positive blood culture test kit and will seek additional FDA submissions should they be required to remove restrictions following the initial submission. This approach is similar to that taken by molecular diagnostic companies since early 2013 for their multiplexed identification tests. 

Research and development 

The Company plans to continue making significant investments in the research and development of new applications for existing technologies and in the research and development of new complementary technologies. 

With the development of the Accelerate ID/AST System and positive blood culture test kit substantially complete, the Company will focus on the development of additional test kits to address opportunities in sample types including but not limited to respiratory, skin and soft tissue, and urine. Similar to the positive blood culture kit, the objective is to develop test kits which work seamlessly on the Accelerate ID/AST System and deliver substantial benefits to the microbiology laboratory and to physicians in the treatment of serious infections. Proof of concept research has already been completed on some of these sample types aided in part by DMRDP grant which aims to apply the Accelerate ID/AST System to respiratory and skin and soft tissue samples. 

We anticipate seeking separate regulatory approval for each additional test kit. If and when we determine that we will pursue regulatory approvals for those applications, we would likely include the identification of the most prevalent infectious pathogens found in each specimen type and the applicable antimicrobial agents for treatment. 

Our research activity is also focused on shortening the time required to distinguish between positive and negative whole blood and potentially urine samples prior to using the ID/AST System. 

The Company's research and development expense for years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;is included in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements, license agreements, and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our proprietary rights. We intend to continue developing intellectual property, and we intend to aggressively protect our 

position in key technologies. Our patented technology covers key components of the ID/AST System and is, thus, very important to the Company. Our patents are focused on several key technologies, including our automated process for sample preparation, automated immobilization process, and methods for imaging and analysis of individual pathogen cells. The Company&#8217;s first patent on the ID/AST System technology, U.S. Patent No. 7,341,841 titled "Rapid Microbial Detection and Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing" was issued on March 11, 2008. The patent specification covers methods used to derive identification and antibiotic susceptibility from tests on individual immobilized bacterial cells. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 19 issued patents worldwide, including 12 patents issued in the United States and seven issued outside the United States. One of our patents expires in 2017, and the remaining 18 will expire on various dates in 2022 through 2033. Additionally, as of December 31, 2015 , we had 21 patent applications pending worldwide, including 15 U.S. applications and six applications outside the United States. The Company believes that its patent suite would make it difficult for any other company to conduct rapid antibiotic susceptibility testing of individual pathogens. 

Sales, Marketing, and Distribution 

The target customer for our products is hospital microbiology laboratories that perform identification and antibiotic susceptibility testing. Globally, the vast majority of hospitals with an intensive care unit have such a laboratory. In general, we plan to build our own sales force to market the ID/AST System directly to our targeted customers. However, in select geographies, we plan to use third-party distributors to market the product. 

Our commercial strategy is to focus initially on high volume and influential accounts in key geographies with a direct sales force in North America and in select European countries. Early marketing efforts include the planned initiation of market studies at multiple sites across the United States and European Union. In support of these efforts, we anticipate establishing a sales force based in the European Union and the United States. 

Competition 

To the best of our knowledge, no other company has a single product with capabilities matching those of the ID/AST System. The leading companies with automated microbiological testing products include Becton, Dickinson and Company (&#8220;BD&#8221;), bioMerieux, Danaher Corporation (&#8220;Danaher&#8221;), Bruker Corporation, Nanosphere, T2 Biosystems, Abbott and Thermo Fisher Scientific&#8217;s subsidiary TREK Diagnostics Systems, Inc. (&#8220;TREK&#8221;). These companies provide products for the broad-based culturing and analysis of a wide variety of bacteria. However, only BD, bioMerieux, Danaher and TREK market products that perform AST, and we believe that none of our competitor&#8217;s products are able to provide AST results as quickly as the ID/AST System. 

Our competitors&#8217; AST products require purified bacterial strains or &#8220;isolates&#8221; for analysis, which require at least overnight culturing of a sample to produce enough organisms to test. We believe these standard culturing methods, including enrichment growth and colony isolation, cannot achieve the speed that the ID/AST System is expected to provide. 

Industry Developments 

The clinical microbiology industry is subject to rapid technological changes, and new products are frequently introduced for rapid bacterial identification using genes or other molecular markers (&#8220;molecular diagnostics&#8221;). Numerous acquisitions, licenses, and distribution arrangements have been announced over the last few years for such products. However, we do not believe that any of these technologies offers the advantages offered by the ID/AST System. For example, gene detection can be highly sensitive and specific for the identification of pathogens, but very few antibiotic resistance mechanisms are simple enough to allow accurate guidance for drug selection. Even in those rare instances that have a direct relationship between a gene and effective resistance, such as particular Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus &#32;(MRSA) strains, leading literature has reported novel mutations that escape detection by recently commercialized tests. 

Fundamental biological limitations arise from the complexity of the majority of drug resistance expression mechanisms. This complexity precludes direct interpretation of molecular marker presence or absence and extrapolating to prescription guidance. Many new diagnostic technologies also require prior isolation of cultured colonies in order to assure accuracy. The time required to obtain such isolates, with a minimum of overnight turnaround, prevents these technologies from serving as rapid diagnostics for treatment decision support. 

Another new technology receiving wide attention is mass spectrometry, and particularly the matrix-assisted 

laser desorption ionization time of flight version (&#8220;MALDI-TOF&#8221;), such as the Biotyper&#174; system from Bruker Corporation, which has not yet received FDA clearance. Bruker Corporation has agreements with a number of companies for distribution, including BD, TREK, and Siemens. bioMerieux has a similar system for distribution with Shimadzu Corporation. These systems build an empiric database from protein spectra acquired from many thousands of purified bacterial and fungal strains. They require a pure strain isolate for analysis and enrichment culturing to produce enough material to analyze. Some research papers on these systems report attempts to directly analyze isolate or blood culture smears, but results are not as reliable as those from samples prepared using a cleanup process to produce crude protein extracts. 

MALDI-TOF systems have a major advantage over other molecular methods in identifying a very broad range of organisms. Cost of ownership is also substantially below that of older molecular methods. But the requirement for extensive organism enrichment and purification, as well as the inability to quantify live organisms or distinguish samples derived from viable organisms, substantially limits this technology from time-critical decision support. In this respect, the ID/AST System provides a substantial advantage for more rapid test results. Finally, as with the older molecular methods, MALDI-TOF systems cannot identify major drug resistance expression and faces the same fundamental biological barriers as gene detection. 

Government Regulation 

Our products under development and our operations are subject to significant government regulation. In the United States, our products are regulated as medical devices by the FDA and other federal, state, and local regulatory authorities. 

FDA Regulation of Medical Devices 

The FDA and other U.S. and foreign governmental agencies regulate, with respect to medical devices: 

&#8226; 

design, development, manufacturing, and storage; 

&#8226; 

testing, content, and language of instructions for use and storage; 

&#8226; 

labeling; 

&#8226; 

pre-clinical testing and clinical trials; 

&#8226; 

product safety; 

&#8226; 

advertising, promotion, marketing, sales, and distribution; 

&#8226; 

pre-market clearance and approval; 

&#8226; 

record-keeping procedures; 

&#8226; 

advertising and promotion; 

&#8226; 

recalls and corrective field actions; 

&#8226; 

post-market reporting, including reporting of deaths, serious injuries, and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury; 

&#8226; 

post-market studies and surveillance; and 

&#8226; 

product import and export. 

In the United States, numerous laws and regulations govern all the processes by which medical devices are brought to market and marketed. These include the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the &#8220;FDCA&#8221;) and the FDA's implementing regulations. 

FDA Pre-market Clearance and Approval Requirements 

Each medical device we seek to commercially distribute in the United States must first receive 510(k) clearance, approval of a reclassification petition or de novo classification request, or pre-market approval from the FDA, unless specifically exempted by the FDA. The FDA classifies all medical devices into one of three classes. Devices deemed to pose the lowest risk are categorized as either Class I or II, which generally requires the manufacturer to submit to the FDA a 510(k) pre-market notification submission requesting clearance of the device for commercial distribution in the United States. Some low risk devices are exempted from this requirement. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life sustaining, life-supporting, or implantable devices, or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously 510(k)-cleared device are categorized as Class III. These devices generally require submission and approval of a pre-market approval application, or PMA. 

510(k) Clearance Process 

To obtain 510(k) clearance, we must submit a pre-market notification to the FDA demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a device that has previously obtained 510(k) clearance, a device that has been classified into Class I or II, or a device that was legally marketed before May 28, 1976 and that is not yet subject to an FDA order requiring pre-market approval. In rare cases, Class III devices may be cleared through the 510(k) process. The FDA has committed to review most 510(k) decisions within 90 days, but the review clock may be stopped due to requests for additional information. A decision may take significantly longer, and clearance is never assured. Although many 510(k) pre-market notifications are cleared without clinical data, in some cases, the FDA requires significant clinical data to support substantial equivalence. In reviewing a pre-market notification submission, the FDA may request additional information, including clinical data, which may significantly prolong the review process. 

After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any subsequent modification of the device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, in some cases, approval of a PMA. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination initially, but the FDA may review any such decision and may disagree with a manufacturer's determination. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer's determination, the FDA may require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or approval of a PMA is obtained. Under these circumstances, the FDA may also subject a manufacturer to enforcement action and sanctions, including those described below. In addition, the FDA is currently evaluating the 510(k) process and may make substantial changes to regulatory requirements, including changes that could affect which devices are eligible for 510(k) clearance, the FDA&#8217;s ability to rescind 510(k) clearances, and additional requirements that may significantly impact the 510(k) review process. 

Pre-market Approval Process 

A PMA generally must be submitted if the medical device is in Class III or cannot be cleared through the 510(k) process. A PMA must be supported by extensive technical, preclinical, clinical, manufacturing, and labeling data to demonstrate to the FDA's satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device. 

After a PMA is submitted and filed, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the submitted information. During this review, the FDA may request additional information or clarification of information already provided. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. In addition, the FDA will conduct a pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with Quality System Regulation (&#8220;QSR&#8221;), which imposes elaborate development, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance requirements on the design and manufacturing process. The FDA has committed to review most PMAs within 180 days where an advisory panel is not required and within 320 days where an advisory panel is required, but the review clock may be stopped due to requests for additional information. A decision may take significantly longer, and approval is never assured. The FDA may approve a PMA with post-approval conditions intended to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device including restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale, and distribution and collection of safety data. Failure to comply with the conditions of approval can result in enforcement action and sanctions, including those described below. New PMAs or PMA supplements are required for significant modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling of the product, or design of a device that is approved through the PMA process. PMA supplements often require submission of the same type of information as an original PMA, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the original PMA and may not require as extensive clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel. 

De novo Classification Process 

Medical device types that the FDA has not previously classified as Class I, II, or III are automatically classified into Class III regardless of the level of risk they pose. The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997 established a new route to market for low-to-moderate risk medical devices that are automatically placed into Class III due to the absence of a predicate device, called the "Request for Evaluation of Automatic Class III Designation," or the de novo classification procedure. This procedure allows a manufacturer whose novel device is automatically classified into Class III to request down-classification of its medical device into Class I or Class II on the basis that the device presents low or moderate risk, rather than requiring the submission and approval of a PMA. Prior to the enactment of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act (&#8220;FDASIA&#8221;) in July 2012, a medical device could only be eligible for de novo classification if the manufacturer first submitted a 510(k) pre-market notification and received a determination from the FDA that the device was not substantially equivalent. FDASIA streamlined the de novo classification pathway by permitting manufacturers to also request de novo classification directly without first submitting a 510(k) pre-market notification to the FDA and receiving a not substantially equivalent determination. Under FDASIA, the FDA is required to classify the device within 120 days following receipt of such a direct de novo request. If the manufacturer seeks classification into Class II, the manufacturer should include a draft proposal for special controls that are necessary to provide a reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the medical device. In addition, the FDA may reject a de novo request if the FDA identifies a legally marketed predicate device that would be appropriate for a 510(k), determines that the device is not low-to-moderate risk, or determines that general controls would be inadequate to control the risks and special controls cannot be developed. We plan to utilize the de novo classification process to obtain marketing authorization for the ID/AST System, which we believe will be placed within Class II. 

Clinical Trials 

Clinical trial data is typically required to support a PMA and is sometimes required for a 510(k) pre-market notification. Initiation of a clinical trial generally requires submission of an application for an Investigational Device Exemption (an &#8220;IDE&#8221;) to the FDA. The IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the investigational protocol is scientifically sound. The IDE application must be approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients, unless the product is deemed a non-significant risk device and eligible for abbreviated IDE requirements. Clinical trials for a significant risk device may begin once the IDE application is approved by the FDA as well as the appropriate institutional review boards at the clinical trial sites and the informed consent of the patients participating in the clinical trial is obtained. After a trial begins, the FDA may place it on hold or terminate if it concludes that the clinical subjects are exposed to unacceptable risks. Any trials we conduct must be conducted in accordance with FDA regulations as well as other federal regulations and state laws concerning human subject protection and privacy. Moreover, the results of a clinical trial may not be sufficient to obtain clearance or approval of the product. 

Clinical trial sponsors may also be subject to the Medicare Secondary Payer laws, which prohibit Medicare from making a payment if payment has been made or can reasonably be expected to be made by other plans, such as liability insurance plans (including self-insurance). Section 111 of the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (&#8220;MMSEA&#8221;) established mandatory reporting requirements with respect to Medicare beneficiaries who receive settlements, judgments, awards, or other payment from liability insurance (including self-insurance) plans. When payments are made by sponsors of clinical trials for complications or injuries arising out of the trials, such payments are considered to be payments by liability insurance (including self-insurance) and must be reported. Section III of the MMSEA includes authority for CMS to impose civil monetary penalties against liability insurance (including self-insurance) plans that are determined to be non-compliant with the applicable reporting requirements. 

Pervasive and Continuing Regulation 

After a medical device is placed on the market, numerous FDA regulatory requirements apply, including the following: 

&#8226; 

the QSR, which imposes elaborate development, testing, control, documentation, and other quality assurance requirements on the design and manufacturing process; 

&#8226; 

establishment registration, which requires establishments involved in the production and distribution of medical devices, intended for commercial distribution in the United States, to register with the FDA; 

&#8226; 

medical device listing, which requires manufacturers to list the devices they have in commercial distribution 

with the FDA; 

&#8226; 

labeling regulations and various statutory provisions, which prohibit false or misleading labeling, as well as the promotion of products for unapproved or "off-label" uses, and impose other restrictions on labeling; and 

&#8226; 

post-market reporting requirements, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA deaths, serious injuries, and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury, recalls, and corrective field actions. 

In certain cases, advertising is also subject to scrutiny by the Federal Trade Commission. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce these and other applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may result in enforcement action by the FDA and/or the U.S. Department of Justice, which may include one or more of the following administrative or judicial sanctions: 

&#8226; 

untitled letters or warning letters; 

&#8226; 

fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; 

&#8226; 

mandatory recall or seizure of our products; 

&#8226; 

administrative detention or banning of our products; 

&#8226; 

operating restrictions, partial suspension, or total shutdown of production; 

&#8226; 

import holds; 

&#8226; 

refusing to approve pending 510(k) notifications or PMAs; 

&#8226; 

revocation of 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals previously granted; and 

&#8226; 

criminal prosecution and penalties. 

International Regulation 

Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to foreign government regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. In order to market our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive safety and quality regulations in other countries. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance or approval, and the requirements may differ significantly. 

In the European Economic Area, or EEA, which comprises the 28 Member States of the EU plus Liechtenstein, Norway and Iceland, in vitro medical devices are required to conform with the essential requirements of the EU Directive on in vitro diagnostic medical devices (Directive 98/79/EC, as amended). To demonstrate compliance with the essential requirements, the manufacturer must undergo a conformity assessment procedure. The conformity assessment varies according to the type of medical device and its classification. For low-risk devices, the conformity assessment can be carried out internally, but for higher risk devices (self-test devices and those included in List A and B of Annex II of Directive 98/79/EC) it requires the intervention of an accredited EEA Notified Body. If successful, the conformity assessment concludes with the drawing up by the manufacturer of an EC Declaration of Conformity entitling the manufacturer to affix the CE mark to its products and to sell them throughout the EEA. The EC Declaration of Conformity was received by the Company in 2015. 

Other Healthcare Laws 

Upon commercialization of the ID/AST System, our business activities, including the activities of any third-party distributors that we retain, will likely be subject to additional healthcare laws and regulations and related enforcement by the federal government as well as the governments of states and foreign jurisdictions where we conduct our business. These laws and regulations include, without limitation, state and federal anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, false claims, privacy and security, and physician payment transparency laws and regulations. Violations of these laws 

or regulations can result in criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines and, in some cases, exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The following discussion describes certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations that may impact our operations and the operations of our customers, but is not intended to be an exhaustive discussion of all potentially applicable federal and state health laws and regulations. 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits any person from knowingly and willfully offering, soliciting, receiving, or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for an item or service, or the purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease, or order of any good, facility, item, or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A person need not have actual knowledge of the Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent in order to commit a violation, and several courts have interpreted the intent requirement of the Anti-Kickback Statute to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement is to induce referrals or purchases of federal healthcare program business, the Anti-Kickback Statute has been violated. In addition to criminal fines and penalties set forth under the Anti-Kickback Statute, violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute can result in exclusion or debarment from participation in the federal healthcare programs, as well as substantial penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Statute, which imposes penalties against any person or entity that is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal healthcare program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. A violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act, which, as discussed below, imposes liability on any person or entity that knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. Several states also have anti-kickback laws which establish similar prohibitions and, in some cases, may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. 

The federal False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that knowingly presents or causes to be presented a false or fraudulent claim for payment to, or approval by, the U.S. government. Liability under the False Claims Act can give rise to treble damages and civil penalties of up to $11,000 per claim. In addition to actions initiated by the government itself, the qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act authorize private individuals to bring False Claims Act actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in a percentage of the recovery. In recent years, the government and qui tam relators have initiated suits resulting in multi-million and multi-billion dollar settlements under the False Claims Act in addition to criminal convictions under applicable criminal statutes. Given the significant size of actual and potential settlements, it is expected that the government and qui tam relators will continue to devote substantial resources and use the False Claims Act to investigate and prosecute healthcare companies&#8217; compliance with applicable fraud and abuse laws. 

The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (&#8220;HIPAA&#8221;) created federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme or artifice to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors or to obtain&#8212;by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises&#8212;any of the money or property owned by or under the custody or control of any healthcare benefit program; and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing, or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. The Affordable Care Act amended certain sections of the HIPAA criminal statutes such that a person need not have actual knowledge of the applicable statute or specific intent in order to have committed a healthcare fraud violation. 

As stated above, many states and foreign countries have adopted similar fraud and abuse laws that may be broader in scope and may apply regardless of payor. Violations of any of these laws can lead to additional risk such as risk of plaintiff class actions, state attorney general actions, and investigation by agencies such as the Department of Justice (&#8220;DOJ&#8221;) or the Federal Trade Commission (&#8220;FTC&#8221;). 

The Physician Payment Sunshine Act, implemented by Section 6002 of the Affordable Care Act, imposes transparency requirements on certain manufacturers, referred to as &#8220;applicable manufacturers,&#8221; of drugs, devices, biological, or medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid, the Children&#8217;s Health Insurance Program (&#8220;CHIP&#8221;), or a waiver of a plan offered under CHIP. Applicable manufacturers must track and report to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services (&#8220;CMS&#8221;) certain payments or "transfers of value" provided to U.S. licensed physicians and teaching hospitals during the preceding calendar year, as well as certain ownership and investment interests held by U.S. licensed physicians and their immediate family members. CMS releases the reported data on a public website on an annual basis. Failure to report as required under the Physician Payment Sunshine Act could 

subject applicable manufacturers to significant financial penalties, while tracking and reporting the required payments and transfers of value may result in considerable administrative expense. Several states currently have similar laws, and more states may enact similar legislation, some of which may be broader in scope. For example, certain states require the implementation of compliance programs, compliance with industry ethics codes, implementation of gift bans, and spending limits, and/or reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to healthcare professionals. 

We also may be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (&#8220;HITECH&#8221;), and their respective implementing regulations, including the final omnibus rule published by the Department of Health and Human Services Office for Civil Rights (&#8220;OCR&#8221;) in January 2013, restrict the use and disclosure of patient-identifiable health information, mandate the adoption of standards relating to the privacy and security of patient-identifiable health information, and require us to report certain security breaches to healthcare provider customers with respect to such information where we are acting as a HIPAA business associate, as that term is defined, to that customer. In addition to HIPAA criminal penalties, HITECH created four new tiers of civil and monetary penalties and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA privacy and security laws and seek attorneys' fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances and impose reporting requirements for data breaches, many of which differ from each other and HIPAA in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

The use of certain diagnostic products by our potential customers is affected by the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (&#8220;CLIA&#8221;) and related federal and state regulations that provide for regulation of laboratory testing. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality assurance, quality control, and inspections. Current or future CLIA requirements or the promulgation of additional regulations affecting laboratory testing may prevent some laboratories, hospitals, providers, or other customers with laboratories from using some or all of our diagnostic products. 

Healthcare Reform 

In the United States and several foreign jurisdictions, there have been, and we expect there may continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system seeking to reduce healthcare costs that could affect our future results of operations as we begin to commercialize our products. 

In the United States, the Affordable Care Act (&#8220;ACA&#8221;), enacted in March 2010, made changes that are expected to have a continued and significant impact on the medical device industry and clinical laboratories, including the way healthcare is delivered and financed by governmental and private insurers. For example, the legislation provided for reductions in the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule and, since 2013, has required that certain medical device manufacturers pay an excise tax in an amount equal to 2.3% of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices. We will be subject to this tax once we begin selling the ID/AST System. 

In addition, frequently in recent years, other legislative, regulatory, and political changes aimed at regulating healthcare delivery in general and clinical laboratories in particular have been proposed and adopted in the United States. Payment and reimbursement for the laboratory industry and hospital and other healthcare provider services have been under significant pressure. Most recently, in January 2015, the Department of Health and Human Services (&#8220;HHS&#8221;) announced a plan to shift the Medicare program and the healthcare system at large toward paying providers based on quality, rather than the quantity of care provided to patients, and the President&#8217;s budget for fiscal year 2016 proposed reductions in Medicare spending. 

Reimbursement 

We do not believe that hospitals will specifically seek reimbursement from the government or private insurance companies for their purchase of the ID/AST System or the positive blood culture test kits. Instead, we believe that hospitals will recoup such costs by obtaining reimbursement from the government or private insurance companies for in-bed occupancies, which traditionally includes all testing required for admitted patients. 

Hospitals, clinical laboratories, and other healthcare provider customers that may purchase our products, if approved, generally bill various third-party payors to cover all or a portion of the costs and fees associated with diagnostic tests, including the cost of the purchase of our products. We currently expect that all of our diagnostic tests 

will be performed in a hospital inpatient setting, where governmental payors, such as Medicare, generally reimburse hospitals a single bundled payment that is based on the patient&#8217;s diagnosis under a classification system known as the Medicare severity diagnosis-related groups (&#8220;MS-DRGs&#8221;) classification for all items and services provided to the patient during a single hospitalization, regardless of whether our diagnostic tests are performed during such hospitalization. 

Operations 

In January 2013, we relocated our headquarters from Denver, Colorado to Tucson, Arizona, where we currently lease approximately 52,497 &#32;square feet of office, manufacturing and laboratory space. Further information regarding our Tucson facility is included in Item 2. Properties &#32;included elsewhere in this report, and details regarding our lease arrangement are included in Item 8, Note 14, Commitments &#32;to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 

We plan to assemble the ID/AST System instrument and consumable test kits in our facilities in Tucson, Arizona. The ID/AST System requires certain components that are custom-fabricated to our specifications. Such components include injection-molded plastic components, die-cut laminates, and machined mechanical components. We own the necessary production tooling and believe that we will be able to qualify secondary sources as needed to support future demand for the ID/AST System. 

Raw Materials 

We purchase many different types of raw materials, including plastics, glass, metals, electronic and mechanical sub-assemblies and various biological and chemical products. We seek to ensure continuity of raw material supply by securing multiple options for sourcing. However, our components are custom-made by only a few outside suppliers. In certain instances, we have a sole source supply for key product components of the ID/AST System. We have entered into supply agreements with most of our suppliers to help ensure component availability and flexible purchasing terms with respect to the purchase of such components. 

Employees 

We have 113 employees as of December 31, 2015 . We have not entered into any collective bargaining agreements and consider our labor practices and employee relations to be good. 

Available Information 

We regularly file reports with the SEC, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any other filings required by the SEC. We make these reports available free of charge in the investor relations section of our corporate website (http://ir.axdx.com/) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. References to our corporate website address in this report are intended to be inactive textual references only, and none of the information contained on our website is part of this report or incorporated in this report by reference. 

The public may inspect and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. You may also access these materials, and other information regarding issuers like us that file information electronically with the SEC, from the SEC&#8217;s internet website at http://www.sec.gov/. 

