 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Clean Harbors, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, "we," "Clean Harbors" or the "Company") is a leading provider of environmental, energy and industrial services throughout North America. 

Our operations are managed in six reportable segments: Technical Services, Industrial and Field Services which consists of the Industrial Services and Field Services operating segments, Kleen Performance Products, SK Environmental Services, Lodging Services and Oil and Gas Field Services. 

&#8226; 

Technical Services &#32;&#8212; provides a broad range of hazardous material management services including the packaging, collection, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste at our incineration, landfill, wastewater and other treatment facilities. 

&#8226; 

Industrial and Field Services &#32;&#8212; provides industrial and specialty services such as high-pressure and chemical cleaning, catalyst handling, decoking and material processing to refineries, chemical plants, oil sands facilities, pulp and paper mills, and other industrial facilities. Also provides a wide variety of environmental cleanup services on customer sites or other locations on a scheduled or emergency response basis including tank cleaning, decontamination, remediation, and spill cleanup. 

&#8226; 

Kleen Performance Products &#32; (formerly Oil Re-refining and Recycling) &#32; &#8212; processes used oil into high quality base and blended lubricating oils which are then sold to third party customers, and provides recycling of oil in excess of our current re-refining capacity into recycled fuel oil which is then sold to third parties. Processing into base and blended lubricating oils takes place in our three owned and operated re-refineries and recycling of oil into recycled fuel oil takes place in one of our used oil terminals. 

&#8226; 

SK Environmental Services &#8212; consists of Safety-Kleen's branches and provides a broad range of environmental services such as parts cleaning, containerized waste services, used oil collection, and other complementary products and services, including vacuum services, allied products and other environmental services. 

&#8226; 

Lodging Services &#32;&#8212; provides lodges and remote workforce accommodation facilities throughout Western Canada. These include both client and open lodges, operator camps, and drill camps. Also included within the segment are manufacturing of modular units and wastewater processing plants, operating services and parts. 

&#8226; 

Oil and Gas Field Services &#8212; provides fluid handling, fluid hauling, production servicing, surface rentals, seismic services, and directional boring services to the energy sector serving oil and gas exploration and production, and power generation. 

Clean Harbors, Inc. was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1980 and our principal office is located in Norwell, Massachusetts. We maintain a website at the following Internet address: http://www.cleanharbors.com. Through a link on this website to the SEC website, http://www.sec.gov, we provide free access to our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with the SEC. Our guidelines on corporate governance, the charters for our board committees, and our code of ethics for members of the board of directors, our chief executive officer and our other senior officers are also available on our website, and we will post on our 

website any waivers of, or amendments to, such code of ethics. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not incorporated by reference into this annual report. 

Health and Safety 

Health and Safety is our #1 priority&#8212;companywide. Employees at all levels of our Company share this philosophy and are committed to ensuring our safety goals are met. Our commitment to health and safety benefits everyone&#8212;our employees, our customers, the community, and the environment. In 2015 &#32;we continued with our very successful Safety Starts With Me: Live It 3-6-5 program which is a key component in our overall safety program and along with our many other programs has continued to lower our Total Recordable Incident Rate, or "TRIR;" Days Away, Restricted Activity and Transfer Rate, or "DART;" and Experience Modification Rate, or "EMR." For the year ended December 31, 2015 , our Company wide TRIR, DART and EMR were 1.33, 0.83 and 0.54, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2014 , our Company wide TRIR, DART and EMR were 1.57, 1.01 and 0.54, respectively. 

In order to protect our employees, continue to lower our incident rates, and satisfy our customers' demands to retain the best service providers with the lowest TRIR, DART and EMR rates, we are fully committed to continuously improving our health and safety performance. All employees recognize the importance of protecting themselves, their fellow employees, their customers, and all those around them from harm. This commitment is supported by the philosophies and Golden Rules of Safety that is the cornerstone of the Safety Starts with Me: Live It 3-6-5 program. Live It 3-6-5 is our dedication to the safety of our workers through each and every employee&#8217;s commitment to our three Safety philosophies, our six Golden Rules of Safety and each employee&#8217;s five personal reasons why they choose to be safe both at work, on the road and at home. 

Compliance 

We regard compliance with applicable environmental regulations as a critical component of our overall operations. We strive to maintain the highest professional standards in our compliance activities. Our internal operating requirements are in many instances more stringent than those imposed by regulation. Our compliance program has been developed for each of our waste management facilities and service centers under the direction of our compliance staff. The compliance staff is responsible for facilities permitting and regulatory compliance, compliance training, transportation compliance, and related record keeping. To ensure the effectiveness of our regulatory compliance program, our compliance staff monitors daily operational activities. We also have an Environmental Health and Safety Compliance Internal Audit Program designed to identify any weaknesses or opportunities for improvement in our ongoing compliance programs. We also perform periodic audits and inspections of the disposal facilities owned by other companies which we utilize. 

Our facilities are frequently inspected and audited by regulatory agencies, as well as by customers. Although our facilities have been cited on occasion for regulatory violations, we believe that each of our facilities is currently in substantial compliance with applicable permit requirements. 

Strategy 

Our strategy is to develop and maintain ongoing relationships with a diversified group of customers that have recurring needs for environmental, energy or industrial services. We strive to be recognized as the premier supplier of a broad range of value-added services based upon quality, responsiveness, customer service, information technologies, breadth of service offerings and cost effectiveness. 

The principal elements of our business strategy are to: 

&#8226; 

Expand Service Offerings and Geographic Coverage &#8212;We believe our Technical, Industrial and Field Services, and SK Environmental segments have a competitive advantage, particularly in areas where we maintain service locations at or near a treatment, storage and disposal facility, or "TSDF." By opening additional service locations in close proximity to our TSDFs, we believe that we can, with minimal capital expenditures, increase our market share within the Industrial and Field Services segment. We believe this will drive additional waste to our existing facilities, thereby increasing utilization and enhancing overall profitability. 

&#8226; 

Cross-Sell Across Segments &#8212;We believe the breadth of our service offerings allows us to provide additional services to existing customers. In particular, we believe we can provide industrial and field services to customers that traditionally have only used our technical services and technical services to customers that use our industrial services or oil and gas field services. At the same time, we see a variety of cross-selling opportunities between our Technical, Industrial and Field Services offerings and SK Environmental Services&#8217; 200,000 customers. Evidencing this strategy, we have been successfully cross selling the services of Safety-Kleen, Inc. ("Safety-Kleen"), since our acquisition of Safety-Kleen in December 2012, such as parts washers, Allied products and recycling services, to legacy Clean 

Harbors customers. We believe leveraging our ability to cross-sell across all of our segments will drive additional revenue for our Company. 

&#8226; 

Capture Large-Scale Projects &#8212;We provide turnkey offsite transportation and landfill or incineration disposal services for soil and other contaminated media generated from remediation activities. We also assist remediation contractors and project managers with support services including groundwater disposal, investigation derived waste disposal, rolloff container management, and many other related services. We believe this will drive incremental waste volume to our existing facilities, thereby increasing utilization and enhancing overall profitability. 

&#8226; 

Expand Throughput Capacity of Existing Waste Facilities &#8212;We operate an extensive network of hazardous waste management facilities and have made substantial investments in these facilities, which provide us with significant operating leverage as volumes increase. In addition, there are opportunities to expand waste handling capacity at these facilities by modifying the terms of the existing permits and by adding equipment and new technology. Through selected permit modifications, we can expand the range of treatment services offered to our customers without the large capital investment necessary to acquire or build new waste management facilities. 

&#8226; 

Pursue Selective Acquisitions &#8212;We actively pursue accretive acquisitions in certain services or market sectors where we believe the acquisitions can enhance and expand our business, such as the oil collection and refinery markets. We believe that we can expand existing services, especially in our non-disposal services, through strategic acquisitions in order to generate incremental revenues from existing and new customers and to obtain greater market share. 

&#8226; 

Execute Strategic Mergers and Divestitures &#8212;To complement our acquisition strategy and our focus on internal growth, we regularly review and evaluate our existing operations to determine whether our business model should change through the merger or divestiture of certain businesses. Accordingly, from time to time, we may merge or divest certain non-core businesses and reallocate our resources to businesses that better align with our long-term strategic direction. 

&#8226; 

Focus on Cost, Pricing and Productivity Initiatives &#8212;We continually seek to increase efficiency and to reduce costs in our business through enhanced technology, process efficiencies and stringent expense management. For instance, in 2014, we successfully executed a significant cost reduction program that included headcount reductions, branch consolidations, reduction in third-party rentals, greater internalization of maintenance costs, procurement and supply chain improvements and lowering reliance on outside transportation. 

Acquisitions and Other Business Transactions 

Acquisitions are an element of our business strategy that involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses that complement our existing company and create multiple opportunities for profitable growth. 

On February 3, 2016, we purchased a re-refinery facility located in Nevada from Vertex Energy, Inc. for a purchase price of $35.0 million in cash, subject to customary post-closing adjustments. The acquired re-refinery facility further expands our re-refinery network within our Kleen Performance Products segment. 

On April 11, 2015, we acquired Thermo Fluids Inc. (&#8220;TFI&#8221;) for approximately $78.6 million inclusive of current estimates of and subject to certain closing and post-closing adjustments relating to working capital and other assumed liabilities. TFI provides environmental services, including used oil recycling, used oil filter recycling, antifreeze products, parts washers and solvent recycling, and industrial waste management services, including vacuum services, remediation, lab pack and hazardous waste management. The acquisition expands our environmental services customer base while also complimenting the SK Environmental Services network and presence in the western United States. 

In December 2015, we acquired certain assets and assumed certain defined liabilities of a privately owned company for approximately $14.7 million &#32;in cash. That Company specialized in the collection and recycling of used oil filters and was a service provider to the SK Environmental Services segment prior to the acquisition. The acquired company has been integrated into the SK Environmental Services segment. 

In 2014, we acquired the assets of two privately owned companies for approximately $16.1 million &#32;in cash, net of cash acquired. The purchase price is subject to customary post-closing adjustments based upon finalized working capital amounts. The acquired companies have been integrated into the Technical Services and Lodging Services segments. 

On September 13, 2013, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Evergreen Oil, Inc. (&#8220;Evergreen&#8221;) for approximately $56.3 million &#32;in cash, net of cash acquired. Evergreen, headquartered in Irvine, California, specializes in the recovery and re-refining of used oil. Evergreen owns and operates an oil re-refining operation in the western United States and also offers other ancillary environmental services, including parts cleaning and containerized waste services, vacuum services and hazardous waste management services. The acquisition of Evergreen enables us to further penetrate the small quantity waste generator 

market and further expand its oil re-refining, oil recycling and waste treatment capabilities. Financial information and results of Evergreen have been recorded in our consolidated financial statements since acquisition and are primarily included in the Kleen Performance Products segment. 

For additional information relating to our acquisition activities during fiscal years 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , see Note 3, "Business Combinations," to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. 

Other business transactions may consist of mergers or divestitures and is another element of our business strategy that involves review of our portfolio of assets to determine the extent to which they are contributing to our objectives and growth strategy. 

We have announced a planned carve-out of our Oil and Gas Field Services and Lodging Services segments into a standalone public company. Ultimate completion of the planned transaction is subject to certain conditions including, but not limited to, market conditions, determination of the most advantageous structure from a financial and tax standpoint, overall costs to our Company, receipt of regulatory approvals, compliance with our debt covenants, the effectiveness of securities laws filings and final approval by our board of directors. There can be no assurance regarding the ultimate structure and timing of the proposed transaction or whether the transaction will be completed. 

Protecting the Environment and Corporate Sustainability 

Our core business is to provide industry, government and the public a wide range of environmental, energy and industrial services that protect and restore North America's natural environment. 

As North America's premier provider of environmental as well as energy and industrial services, our first goal is to help our customers prevent the release of hazardous wastes into the environment. We also are the leading service provider in the recovery and decontamination of pollutants that have been released to the environment. This includes the safe destruction or disposal of hazardous materials in a manner that ensures these materials are no longer a danger to the environment. When providing these services, we are committed to the recycling, reuse and reclamation of these wastes whenever possible using a variety of methods more fully explained below in the sections describing our general operations. Our Safety-Kleen branded services exemplify our commitment to sustainability and providing environmental solutions to the marketplace. Where possible, liquids such as solvents, chemicals and used oil are recycled to our high-quality standards and made into useful products. Tolling programs provide a closed-loop cycle in which the customer&#8217;s spent solvents are recycled to their precise specifications and returned directly to them. 

We have become the leading North American provider of services to protect the ozone layer from the destructive effects of chlorofluorocarbons, or "CFCs," which are ozone layer depleting substances and global warming compounds that have global warming potentials up to 10,000 &#32;times more powerful than carbon dioxide. Global-warming potential is a relative measure of how much heat a green house gas traps in the atmosphere. 

Since 2013, California Air Resources Board has issued over 7,000,000 &#32;emission reduction credits that were generated by destroying CFC&#8217;s at Clean Harbors&#8217; El Dorado Arkansas incinerator. Over 7,000,000 &#32;metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions were avoided by destroying these greenhouse gases. That is equivalent to removing over 1,473,684 &#32;passenger vehicles from the road for one year &#32;. 

One of our most highly visible public programs for various governmental and community entities involves the removal of thousands of tons of hazardous wastes, from households throughout the United States and Canada, that might otherwise be improperly disposed of or become dangerous to the communities where they are stored. 

As we provide these wide-ranging services throughout North America, we are committed to ensuring that our own operations are environmentally responsible. Our sustainability efforts are guided by a formal policy, strategy and plan and we continue to build on our past efforts, such as implementing numerous energy efficiency improvements and various transportation initiatives. Our 1.5 Mw solar array at a closed and capped landfill in New Jersey continues to provide virtually all of the power for the ongoing operation of the onsite ground water decontamination pump and treatment system. 

Competitive Strengths 

&#8226; 

Leading Provider of Environmental, Energy and Industrial Services &#8212;We are one of the largest providers of environmental, energy and industrial services and the largest operator of non-nuclear hazardous waste treatment facilities in North America. We provide multi-faceted and low cost services to a broad mix of customers. We attract and better serve our customers because of our capabilities and the size, scale and geographic location of our assets, which allow us to serve multiple locations. Based on latest industry data, we service approximately 65% &#32;of North America's commercial hazardous incineration volume and 24% &#32;of North America's hazardous landfill volume. 

&#8226; 

Largest collector and recycler of used motor oil &#8212; As the largest re-refiner and recycler of used oil in the world, we returned approximately 160 million &#32;gallons of new re-refined oil, lubricants and byproducts back into the marketplace. In 2015 , our re-refining process eliminated over one million &#32;metric tons of greenhouse gas ("GHG"), which is the equivalent of growing more than 32 million &#32;trees for 10 years &#32;in an urban environment, or taking over 200,000 &#32;passenger cars off the road for one year . 

&#8226; 

Large and Diversified Customer Base &#8212;Our customers range from Fortune 500 companies to midsize and small public and private entities that span multiple industries and business types, including governmental entities. This diversification limits our credit exposure to any one customer and potential cyclicality to any one industry. As a percentage of our 2015 &#32;revenues, the top ten industries we serviced totaled approximately 71% &#32;and included government ( 13% ), chemical ( 12% ), refineries and oil sands ( 11% ), general manufacturing ( 9% ), automotive ( 6% ), base oil, blenders and packagers ( 6% ), utilities ( 4% ), oil gas production ( 4% ), oil gas exploration ( 3% ) and energy and consulting ( 3% ). 

&#8226; 

Stable and Recurring Revenue Base &#8212;We have long-standing relationships with our customers. Our diversified customer base also provides stable and recurring revenues as a majority of our revenues are derived from previously served customers with recurring needs for our services. In addition, switching costs for many of our customers are high. This is due to many customers' desire to audit disposal facilities prior to their qualification as approved sites and to limit the number of facilities to which their hazardous wastes are shipped in order to reduce their potential liability under United States and Canadian environmental regulations. We have been selected as an approved vendor by large and small generators of waste because we possess comprehensive collection, recycling, treatment, transportation, disposal, and waste tracking capabilities and have the expertise necessary to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Those customers that have selected us as an approved vendor typically continue to use our services on a recurring basis. 

&#8226; 

Comprehensive Service Capabilities &#8212;Our comprehensive service offerings allow us to act as a full-service provider to our customers. Our full-service orientation creates incremental revenue growth as customers seek to minimize the number of outside vendors and demand "one-stop shop" service providers. 

&#8226; 

Integrated Network of Assets &#8212;We believe we operate, in the aggregate, the largest number of hazardous waste incinerators, landfills, treatment facilities and TSDFs in North America. Our broad service network enables us to effectively handle a waste stream from origin through disposal and to efficiently direct and internalize our waste streams to reduce costs. As our processing of wastes increases, our size allows us to increase our profit margins as we can internalize a greater volume of waste in our incinerators, landfills and other disposal facilities. 

&#8226; 

Regulatory Compliance &#8212;We continue to make capital investments in our facilities to ensure that they are in compliance with current federal, state, provincial and local regulations. Companies that rely on in-house disposal may find the current regulatory requirements to be too capital intensive or complicated, and may choose to outsource many of their hazardous waste disposal needs. 

&#8226; 

Effective Cost Management &#8212;Our significant scale allows us to maintain low costs through standardized compliance procedures, significant purchasing power, research and development capabilities and our ability to efficiently utilize logistics and transportation to economically direct waste streams to the most efficient facility. We also have the ability to transport and process with internal resources the substantial majority of all hazardous waste that we manage for our customers. 

&#8226; 

Proven and Experienced Management Team &#8212;Our executive management team provides depth and continuity. Our 13 &#32;executive officers collectively have approximately 252 &#32;years of experience in the environmental, energy and industrial services industries. Our chief executive officer founded our Company in 1980, and the average experience of the 12 &#32;other members of the executive management team is approximately 18 &#32;years. 

Operations 

General 

Seasonality and Cyclical Nature of Business. Our operations may be affected by seasonal fluctuations due to weather and budgetary cycles influencing the timing of customers' spending for remedial activities. Typically during the first quarter of each year there is less demand for environmental services due to the cold weather, particularly in the Northern and Midwestern United States and Canada. Accordingly, reduced volumes of waste are received at our facilities and higher operating costs are associated with operating in sub-freezing weather and high levels of snowfall. In addition, factory closings for the year-end holidays reduce the volume of industrial waste generated, which results in lower volumes of waste handled by us during the first quarter of the following year. In addition, our oil collection and recycling business may be affected by seasonal fluctuations due to weather cycles influencing the timing of customers' need for products and services. Typically during the first 

quarter of each year there is less demand for our products and services due to the lower levels of activities by our customers as a result of the cold weather, particularly in the Northern and Midwestern regions of the United States and in Canada. This lower level of activity also results in lower volumes of used oil generated for collection by us in the first quarter. 

Conversely, typically during the first quarter of each year there is more demand for our Industrial and Field Services and Oil and Gas Field Services segments due to the cold weather, particularly in Alberta, Canada, and less demand during the warmer months. The main reason for this is that the areas we service in Alberta are easier to access when the cold conditions make the terrain more suitable for companies to deploy their equipment. During the warmer months, thawing and muddy conditions may impede deployment of equipment. 

Geographical Information. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , we generated $2,576.2 million &#32;or 78.7% &#32;of our revenues in the United States and Puerto Rico, $695.0 million &#32;or 21.2% &#32;of revenues in Canada, and less than 1% &#32;of revenues in other international locations. For the year ended December 31, 2014 , we generated $2,414.6 million &#32;or 71.0% &#32;of our revenues in the United States and Puerto Rico, $982.1 million &#32;or 28.9% &#32;of revenues in Canada, and less than 1% &#32;of revenues in other international locations. For additional information about the geographical areas from which our revenues are derived and in which our assets are located, see Note 17, "Segment Reporting," to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. 

Technical Services 

These services involve the collection, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, and include resource recovery, physical treatment, fuels blending, incineration, landfill disposal, wastewater treatment, lab chemical disposal, explosives management, and CleanPack&#174; services. Our CleanPack services include the collection, identification and categorization, specialized packaging, transportation and disposal of laboratory chemicals and household hazardous wastes. Our technical services are provided through a network of service centers from which a fleet of trucks are dispatched to pick up customers' wastes either on a predetermined schedule or on-demand, and to deliver the wastes to permitted facilities, which are usually Company-owned. Our service centers also can dispatch chemists to a customer location for the collection of chemical and laboratory waste for disposal. 

Collection, Transportation and Logistics Management. As an integral part of our services, we collect industrial wastes from customers and transport such wastes to and between our facilities for treatment or bulking for shipment to final disposal locations. Customers typically accumulate wastes in containers, such as 55-gallon drums, bulk storage tanks or 20-cubic-yard roll-off containers. In providing this service, we utilize a variety of specially designed and constructed tank trucks and semi-trailers as well as third-party transporters, including railroads. 

Treatment and Disposal. We recycle, treat and dispose of hazardous and non-hazardous industrial wastes. The wastes handled include substances which are classified as "hazardous" because of their corrosive, ignitable, infectious, reactive or toxic properties, and other substances subject to federal, state and provincial environmental regulation. We provide final treatment and disposal services designed to manage wastes which cannot be otherwise economically recycled or reused. The wastes we handle come in solid, sludge, liquid and gas form. 

We operate a network of TSDFs that collect, temporarily store and/or consolidate compatible waste streams for more efficient transportation to final recycling, treatment or disposal destinations. These facilities hold special permits, such as Part B permits under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or "RCRA," in the United States, which allow them to process waste through various technologies including recycling, incineration, and landfill and wastewater treatment. 

Resource Recovery and Fuels Blending. We operate recycling systems for the reclamation and reuse of certain wastes, particularly solvent-based wastes generated by industrial cleaning operations, metal finishing and other manufacturing processes. Resource recovery involves the treatment of wastes using various methods, which effectively remove contaminants from the original material to restore its fitness for its intended purpose and to reduce the volume of waste requiring disposal. 

We also operate a recycling facility that recycles refinery waste and spent catalyst. The recycled oil and recycled catalyst are sold to third parties. 

Incineration. Incineration is the preferred method for the treatment of organic hazardous waste, because it effectively destroys the contaminants at high temperatures. High temperature incineration effectively eliminates organic wastes such as herbicides, halogenated solvents, pesticides, and pharmaceutical and refinery wastes, regardless of whether they are gases, liquids, sludge or solids. Federal and state incineration regulations require a destruction and removal efficiency of 99.99% for most organic wastes and 99.9999% for polychlorinated biphenyls, or "PCB," and dioxins. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had eight &#32;active incinerators operating in five &#32;incineration facilities that offer a wide range of technological capabilities to customers through this network. In the United States, we operate a fluidized bed thermal 

oxidation unit for maximum destruction efficiency of hazardous waste with an estimated annual capacity of 58,808 &#32;tons and three &#32;solids and liquids capable incineration facilities with a combined estimated annual capacity of 327,387 &#32;tons. We also operate one &#32;hazardous waste liquid injection incinerator in Canada with total annual capacity of 105,526 &#32;tons. Construction remains on schedule at our state-of-the-art hazardous waste incinerator at our El Dorado, Arkansas site. We expect this facility, the largest internal investment in Clean Harbors&#8217; history, to become commercially operational by year&#8217;s end and to add approximately 70,000 &#32;tons of additional capacity. 

Our incineration facilities in Kimball, Nebraska, Deer Park, Texas, El Dorado, Arkansas and Aragonite, Utah, are designed to process liquid organic wastes, sludge, solids, soil and debris. Our Deer Park facility has two kilns and a rotary reactor. Our El Dorado incineration facility specializes in the treatment of bulk and containerized hazardous liquids, solids and sludge through two rotary kilns. Our incineration facilities in Kimball and Deer Park have on-site landfills for the disposal of ash produced as a result of the incineration process. 

Our incineration facilities in Lambton, Ontario are liquid injection incinerators, designed primarily for the destruction of liquid organic wastes. Typical waste streams include wastewater with low levels of organics and other higher concentration organic liquid wastes not amenable to conventional physical or chemical waste treatment. 

Landfills. Landfills are primarily used for the disposal of inorganic wastes. In the United States and Canada, we operate nine &#32;commercial landfills. Seven &#32;of our commercial landfills are designed and permitted for the disposal of hazardous wastes and two &#32;of our landfills are operated for non-hazardous industrial waste disposal and, to a lesser extent, municipal solid waste. In addition to our commercial landfills, we also own and operate two &#32;non-commercial landfills that only accept waste from our on-site incinerators. 

Of our seven &#32;commercial landfills used for disposal of hazardous waste, five &#32;are located in the United States and two &#32;are located in Canada. As of December 31, 2015 , the useful economic lives of these landfills include approximately 24.9 million &#32;cubic yards of remaining capacity. This estimate of the useful economic lives of these landfills includes permitted airspace and unpermitted airspace that our management believes to be probable of being permitted based on our analysis of various factors. In addition to the capacity included in the useful economic lives of these landfills, there are approximately 31.9 million &#32;cubic yards of additional unpermitted airspace capacity included in the footprints of these landfills that may ultimately be permitted, although there can be no assurance that this unpermitted additional capacity will be permitted. In addition to the hazardous waste landfills, we operate two &#32;non-hazardous industrial landfills with 4.4 million cubic yards of remaining permitted capacity. These two &#32;facilities are located in the United States and have been issued operating permits under the authority of Subtitle D of RCRA. Our non-hazardous landfill facilities are permitted to accept commercial industrial waste, including wastes from foundries, demolition and construction, machine shops, automobile manufacturing, printing, metal fabrications and recycling. 

Wastewater Treatment. We operate seven &#32;wastewater treatment facilities that offer a range of wastewater treatment technologies. These wastewater treatment operations involve processing hazardous and non-hazardous wastes through the use of physical and chemical treatment methods. These facilities treat a broad range of industrial liquid and semi-liquid wastes containing heavy metals, organics and suspended solids. 

Industrial and Field Services 

Industrial services include a wide range of industrial maintenance services and specialty industrial services provided at refineries, mines, upgraders, chemical plants, pulp and paper mills, manufacturing, and power generation facilities. We provide these services throughout North America, including a presence in the oil sands region in Alberta, Canada. 

Our crews handle as-needed in-plant services to support ongoing in-plant cleaning and maintenance services, including liquid/dry vacuum, hydro-blasting, steam cleaning and chemical hauling. We provide a variety of specialized industrial services including plant outage and turnaround services, decoking and pigging, catalyst handling, chemical cleaning, high and ultra-high pressure water cleaning, and large tank and surface impoundment cleaning. 

Field services provide customers with highly skilled experts who utilize specialty equipment and resources to perform services at any chosen location. Our field service crews and equipment are dispatched on a planned or emergency basis, and perform services such as confined space entry for tank cleaning, site decontamination, large remediation projects, demolition, spill cleanup, railcar cleaning, product recovery and transfer, scarifying and media blasting and vacuum services. Additional services include used oil and oil products recycling. Other services include filtration and water treatment services. 

We are a leader in providing response services for environmental emergencies of any scale from man-made disasters, such as oil spills, and natural disasters such as hurricanes. 

Kleen Performance Products 

The used oil collected by the SK Environmental Services branch network is processed or re-refined to convert into a variety of products, mostly base lubricating oils, and much smaller quantities of asphalt-like material, glycols and fuels. As the largest re-refiner of used oil in the world, we process the used oil collected through our four &#32;re-refineries located in East Chicago, Indiana, Newark, California and Breslau, Ontario. Our recent acquisition on February 3, 2016 further expands our re-refinery network, with an additional facility located in Nevada. Our primary goal is to produce and sell high-quality blended oils, which are created by combining our re-refined base and other base oils with performance additives in accordance with our proprietary formulations and American Petroleum Institute licenses. Our Performance Plus brand, and our &#8220;green&#8221; proprietary brand, EcoPower, are sold to on and off-road corporate fleets, government entities, automotive service shops and industrial plants, which are serviced through our internal distribution network, as well as an extensive U.S. and Canada-wide independent distributor network. We also sell unbranded blended oils to distributors that resell them under their private label brands. The base oil we do not blend and sell ourselves is sold to independent blenders/packagers that use it to blend their own branded or private label oils. With more than 200 million gallons of used oil processed annually, we were able to return in 2015 approximately 160 million &#32;gallons of new re-refined oil, lubricants and byproducts back into the marketplace. 

SK Environmental Services &#32; 

Our Safety-Kleen service brand offers an array of environmental services and complementary products to a diverse range of customers including automobile repair shops, car and truck dealers, metal fabricators, machine manufacturers, fleet maintenance shops and other automotive, industrial and retail customers. 

As the largest provider of parts cleaning services in North America, our Safety-Kleen operation offers a complete line of specially designed parts washers to customer locations and then delivers recurring service that includes machine cleaning and maintenance and the disposal and replacement of clean solvent or aqueous fluids. We performed more than 950,000 parts washer services in 2015 . We also sell allied products including degreasers, glass and floor cleaners, hand cleaners, absorbents, antifreeze, windshield washer fluid, mats and spill kits. 

Utilizing our collection network, we provide the pickup and transportation of hazardous and non-hazardous containerized waste for recycling or disposal, primarily through the Clean Harbors network of recycling and waste treatment and disposal facilities. Some of the collected waste consists of used oil which serves as feedstock for our oil re-refineries, although a portion of the used oil brought to the re-refineries is either not suitable for re-refining or cannot be re-refined because we do not have sufficient re-refining capacity at a specific point in time. That oil is processed into recycled fuel oil, or &#8220;RFO.&#8221; The RFO is then sold to various customers, such as asphalt plants, industrial plants, pulp and paper companies, and vacuum gas oil and marine diesel oil producers. 

Our vacuum services provide the removal of solids, residual oily water and sludge and other fluids from customers' oil/water separators, sumps and collection tanks. We also remove and collect waste fluids found at large and small industrial locations, including metal fabricators, auto maintenance providers, and general manufacturers. 

We provide total project management services in areas such as chemical packing, on-site waste management, remediation, compliance training and emergency spill response, while leveraging the Clean Harbors network of Technical, Industrial and Field Services centers and capabilities. 

Lodging Services 

Lodging Services consists of four lines of businesses; Lodge Operations, Mobile Camp Operations, Hospitality Operations, and Manufacturing. Synergy is created amongst all the lines of businesses within Lodging Services itself, as well with other Clean Harbors divisions by providing turnkey remote accommodations and manufacturing support. 

Lodge Operations operates fixed lodges, ranging in size from 300 to 600 beds throughout Western Canada, primarily the Fort McMurray area. These include both client and open lodges, with amenities that include superior catering and housekeeping services, fully equipped common areas, fitness rooms and computer rooms, wireless internet and public phones, powered parking stalls, laundry facilities, and daily towel service. 

Mobile Camp Operations include remote workforce accommodation facilities throughout Western Canada, currently in British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Alberta, with multiple accommodation types. These include both client and open camps, operator camps, and drill camps. Hospitality services are provided internally to the majority of the Lodges and Camps being operated, and include food services prepared by Red Seal Chefs, hospitality services, camp and lodge managers, and housekeeping. Furthermore, Hospitality services are available as a standalone service to clients who have other accommodation arrangements. 

Manufacturing is provided through BCT Structures Inc. and Sanitherm Inc. BCT is a premier custom manufacturer of modular buildings specializing in providing workforce housing, office complexes, schools, lavatories, multi story buildings, affordable housing, kitchen facilities and other customized modular solutions for various industries. Sanitherm manufactures and operates water and wastewater treatment equipment and processes. 

Oil and Gas Field Services 

These services support exploration, drilling and production programs for oil and gas companies. 

Seismic and Right-of-Way: &#32;On the exploration side, we provide integrated seismic and right-of-way services for efficient resource discovery and site preparation. These services include: (i) seismic surveying that minimizes costs, environmental impact, and time in field; (ii) mulching/line clearing that expedites additional geophysical activities and minimizes environmental impact; (iii) shot-hole drilling that provides safe and efficient operations in every terrain, including hostile and inaccessible regions; and (iv) borehole directional services that improve the efficient installation of pipeline, fiberoptic, cable, gas, water and sewer lines. 

Surface Rentals: These services support oil and gas companies' drilling and well completion programs. Key to our services is our ability to provide solids control to support the drilling process. Our technologies help manage liquids, solids and semi-solid material during the drilling operation, and include centrifuges, tanks, and drilling fluid recovery. We also can provide container rentals for the safe collection of drill cuttings and other wastes, as well as manage disposal for drilling fluids and solids. We also supply surface rental equipment to support drill sites by providing wellsite trailers, wastewater treatment systems and holding tanks, light towers, and generators and handling tools. 

Oilfield Transport and Production: &#32;These services support oil and gas companies drilling, completions and production programs. On the drilling and completions side, we provide vehicles and services for fluid hauling and disposal for ad hoc and turnkey operations. We also provide services and equipment for drilling site cleanups and support. On the production side, we provide complete turnarounds and tank cleaning services. Our downhole well equipment helps maintain and increase well productivity. Our other services include special chemical hauling, hydro-excavation, pressure/hydro testing equipment that tests pipelines and facilities, wellheads before operations startups, and rental production equipment for oil and gas well production. 

Competition 

The hazardous waste management industry in which we compete is highly competitive. The sources of competition vary by locality and by type of service rendered, with competition coming from national and regional waste services companies and hundreds of privately-owned firms. Veolia Environmental Services, or "Veolia," Waste Management, Inc., or "WM," and U.S. Ecology are the principal national firms with which we compete. Each of these competitors is able to provide one or more of the environmental services offered by us. 

Under federal and state environmental laws in the United States, generators of hazardous wastes remain liable for improper disposal of such wastes. Although generators may hire various companies that have the proper permits and licenses, because of the generators' potential liability, they are very interested in the reputation and financial strength of the companies they use for the management of their hazardous wastes. We believe that our technical proficiency and reputation are important considerations to our customers in selecting and continuing to utilize our services. 

We believe that the depth of our recycling, treatment and disposal capabilities and our ability to collect and transport waste products efficiently, quality of service, safety, and pricing are the most significant factors in the market for treatment and disposal services. 

For our Technical Services segment, competitors include several major national and regional environmental services firms, as well as numerous smaller local firms. We believe the availability of skilled technical professional personnel, quality of performance, diversity of services and price are the key competitive factors in this service industry. 

For our Industrial and Field Services segment, competitors vary by locality and by type of service rendered, with competition coming from national and regional service providers and hundreds of privately-owned firms that offer energy or industrial services. CEDA International Corporation and Newalta in Canada, and Philip Services Corporation, Hydrochem and Veolia in the United States, are the principal national firms with which we compete. Each of these competitors is able to provide one or more of the industrial and field services offered by us. We believe the availability of specialized equipment, skilled technical professional personnel, quality of performance, diversity of services and price are the key competitive factors in this industry. 

For our Kleen Performance Products and SK Environmental Services segments, competitors vary by locality and by type of service rendered, with competition coming from Heritage Crystal Clean, and Veolia, along with several regional and local firms. 

For our Lodging Services segment, competitors vary by locality and type of services provided. Our primary competitors in our lodging and remote camps business are Civeo, Black Diamond, Horizon North Logistics, Noralta, Royal Camps and William Scotsman, and in our manufacturing business, Atco Structures, Britco Manufacturing, Civeo, Horizon North Logistics and William Scotsman. 

For our Oil and Gas Field Services segment, competitors vary by locality and type of service provided, with competition coming from national, regional and local service providers. Some of these competitors are able to provide one or more of the oil and gas services offered by us. Others only provide a limited range of equipment or services tailored for local markets. Competition is based on a number of factors, including safety, quality, performance, reliability, service, price, response time, and, in some cases, breadth of service offering. 

The principal methods of competition for all of our services are price, quality, reliability of service rendered and technical proficiency. We believe that we offer a more comprehensive range of environmental, energy and industrial services than our competitors in major portions of our service territory. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 12,900 &#32;active full-time employees, of which 600 &#32;in the United States and 600 &#32;in Canada were represented by labor unions. We believe that our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. As part of our commitment to employee safety and quality customer service, we have an extensive compliance program and a trained environmental, health and safety staff. We adhere to a risk management program designed to reduce potential liabilities to us and to our customers. 

Intellectual Property 

We have invested significantly in the development of proprietary technology and also to establish and maintain an extensive knowledge of leading technologies and incorporate these technologies into the services we offer and provide to our customers. As of December 31, 2015 , we held a total of 52 &#32;U.S. and 22 &#32;foreign issued or granted patents (which will expire between 2016 &#32;and 2031 ), 4 &#32;U.S. and 11 &#32;foreign pending patent applications, 70 &#32;U.S. and 52 &#32;foreign trademark registrations, and 13 &#32;U.S. and 11 &#32;foreign trademark applications. We also license software and other intellectual property from various third parties. We enter into confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and control access to software documentation and other proprietary information. We believe that we hold adequate rights to all intellectual property used in our business and that we do not infringe upon any intellectual property rights held by other parties. 

Management of Risks 

We adhere to a program of risk management policies and practices designed to reduce potential liability, as well as to manage customers' ongoing environmental exposures. This program includes installation of risk management systems at our facilities, such as fire suppression, employee training, environmental, auditing and policy decisions restricting the types of wastes handled. We evaluate all revenue opportunities and decline those that we believe involve unacceptable risks. 

We dispose of wastes at our incineration, wastewater treatment and landfill facilities, or at facilities owned and operated by other firms that we have audited and approved. We apply established technologies to the treatment, storage and recovery of hazardous wastes. We believe our operations are conducted in a safe and prudent manner and in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 

Insurance and Financial Assurance 

Our insurance programs cover the potential risks associated with our multifaceted operations from two primary exposures: direct physical damage and third party liability. We maintain a casualty insurance program providing coverage for vehicles, employer's liability and commercial general liability in the aggregate amount of $105.0 million , $102.0 million &#32;and $104.0 million , respectively, per year, subject to retentions of $2.0 million &#32;per occurrence for auto and commercial general liability and $1.0 million &#32;for employers' liability in the United States and $2.0 million &#32;in Canada. We also have workers' compensation insurance whose limits are established by state statutes. 

We have pollution liability insurance policies covering potential risks in three areas: as a contractor performing services at customer sites, as a transporter of waste and as a processor of waste at our facilities. The contractor's pollution liability insurance has limits of $20.0 million &#32;per occurrence and $25.0 million &#32;in the aggregate, covering offsite remedial activities and associated liabilities. 

For sudden and accidental in-transit pollution liability, our auto liability policy provides the primary $5.0 million &#32;per occurrence of transportation pollution insurance. Our pollution liability policies provide an additional $60.0 million &#32;per occurrence and $85.0 million &#32;in the aggregate for a total of $65.0 million &#32;per occurrence and $90.0 million , respectively. A $2.0 million &#32;deductible per occurrence applies to this coverage in the United States and Canada. 

Federal and state regulations require liability insurance coverage for all facilities that treat, store or dispose of hazardous waste. RCRA, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and comparable state hazardous waste regulations typically require hazardous waste handling facilities to maintain pollution liability insurance in the amount of $1.0 million &#32;per occurrence and $2.0 million &#32;in the aggregate for sudden occurrences, and $3.0 million &#32;per occurrence and $6.0 million &#32;in the aggregate for non-sudden occurrences. Our liability insurance coverage meets or exceeds all federal and state regulations. 

Our international operations are insured under locally placed insurance policies that are compulsory to place in a specific country. In addition, we have a global foreign liability policy that will provide excess and difference in condition coverage in international countries. 

Under our insurance programs, coverage is obtained for catastrophic exposures as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. It is our policy to retain a significant portion of certain expected losses related primarily to employee benefit, workers' compensation, commercial general and vehicle liability. Provisions for losses expected under these programs are recorded based upon our estimates of the actuarial calculation of the aggregate liability for claims. We believe that policy cancellation terms are similar to those of companies in other industries. 

Operators of hazardous waste handling facilities are also required by federal, state and provincial regulations to provide financial assurance for closure and post-closure care of those facilities should the facilities cease operation. Closure would include the cost of removing the waste stored at a facility which ceased operating and sending the material to another facility for disposal and the cost of performing certain procedures for decontamination of the facility. As of December 31, 2015 , our total estimated closure and post-closure costs requiring financial assurance by regulators were $429.5 million &#32;for our U.S. facilities and $38.9 million &#32;for our Canadian facilities. We have obtained all of the required financial assurance for our facilities through a combination of surety bonds, funded trusts, letters of credit and insurance from a qualified insurance company. The financial assurance related to closure and post-closure obligations of our U.S. facilities will renew in 2016. Our Canadian facilities utilize surety bonds, which renew at various dates throughout 2016, as well as letters of credit. In connection with obtaining such insurance and surety bonds, we have provided our insurance companies $81.8 million &#32;of letters of credit which we obtained from our lenders under our revolving credit agreement. 

Environmental Regulation 

While our business has benefited substantially from increased governmental regulation of hazardous waste transportation, storage and disposal, the environmental services industry itself is the subject of extensive and evolving regulation by federal, state, provincial and local authorities. We are required to obtain federal, state, provincial and local permits or approvals for each of our hazardous waste facilities. Such permits are difficult to obtain and, in many instances, extensive studies, tests, and public hearings are required before the approvals can be issued. We have acquired all operating permits and approvals now required for the current operation of our business, and have applied for, or are in the process of applying for, all permits and approvals needed in connection with continued operation and planned expansion or modifications of our operations. 

We make a continuing effort to anticipate regulatory, political and legal developments that might affect operations, but are not always able to do so. We cannot predict the extent to which any environmental legislation or regulation that may be enacted or enforced in the future may affect our operations. 

United States Hazardous Waste Regulation 

Federal Regulations. The most significant federal environmental laws affecting us are the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or "RCRA," the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or "CERCLA," also known as the "Superfund Act," the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, and the Toxic Substances Control Act, or "TSCA." 

RCRA. RCRA is the principal federal statute governing hazardous waste generation, treatment, transportation, storage and disposal. Pursuant to RCRA, the EPA has established a comprehensive "cradle-to-grave" system for the management of a wide range of materials identified as hazardous waste. States that have adopted hazardous waste management programs with standards at least as stringent as those promulgated by the EPA have been delegated authority by the EPA to administer their facility permitting programs in lieu of the EPA's program. 

Every facility that treats, stores or disposes of hazardous waste must obtain a RCRA permit from the EPA or an authorized state agency unless a specific exemption exists, and must comply with certain operating requirements (the Part B permitting process). RCRA also requires that Part B permits contain provisions for required on-site study and cleanup activities, 

known as "corrective action," including detailed compliance schedules and provisions for assurance of financial responsibility. See Note 8, "Closure and Post-Closure Liabilities," and Note 9, "Remedial Liabilities," to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report for a discussion of our environmental liabilities. See "Insurance and Financial Assurance" above for a discussion of our financial assurance requirements. 

The Superfund Act. The Superfund Act is the primary federal statute regulating the cleanup of inactive hazardous substance sites and imposing liability for cleanup on the responsible parties. It also provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA to releases of hazardous substances into the environment, and authorizes the government to respond to the release or threatened release of hazardous substances or to order responsible persons to perform any necessary cleanup. The statute provides for strict and, in certain cases, joint and several liability for these responses and other related costs, and for liability for the cost of damages to natural resources, to the parties involved in the generation, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances. Under the statute, we may be deemed liable as a generator or transporter of a hazardous substance which is released into the environment, or as the owner or operator of a facility from which there is a release of a hazardous substance into the environment. See Note 16, "Commitments and Contingencies," to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report for a description of the principal such proceedings in which we are involved. 

The Clean Air Act. The Clean Air Act was passed by Congress to control the emissions of pollutants into the air and requires permits to be obtained for certain sources of toxic air pollutants such as vinyl chloride, or criteria pollutants, such as carbon monoxide. In 1990, Congress amended the Clean Air Act to require further reductions of air pollutants with specific targets for non-attainment areas in order to meet certain ambient air quality standards. These amendments also require the EPA to promulgate regulations which (i) control emissions of 189 hazardous air pollutants; (ii) create uniform operating permits for major industrial facilities similar to RCRA operating permits; (iii) mandate the phase-out of ozone depleting chemicals; and (iv) provide for enhanced enforcement. 

The Clean Water Act. This legislation prohibits discharge of pollutants into the waters of the United States without governmental authorization and regulates the discharge of pollutants into surface waters and sewers from a variety of sources, including disposal sites and treatment facilities. The EPA has promulgated "pretreatment" regulations under the Clean Water Act, which establish pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants into publicly owned treatment works. In the course of the treatment process, our wastewater treatment facilities generate wastewater, which we discharge to publicly owned treatment works pursuant to permits issued by the appropriate governmental authority. We are required to obtain discharge permits and conduct sampling and monitoring programs. We believe each of our operating facilities complies in all material respects with the applicable requirements. 

TSCA. We also operate a network of collection, treatment and field services (remediation) activities throughout North America that are regulated under provisions of TSCA. TSCA established a national program for the management of substances classified as polychlorinated biphenyls, or "PCBs," which include waste PCBs as well as RCRA wastes contaminated with PCBs. The rules set minimum design and operating requirements for storage, treatment and disposal of PCB wastes. Since their initial publication, the rules have been modified to enhance the management standards for TSCA-regulated operations including the decommissioning of PCB transformers and articles, detoxification of transformer oils, incineration of PCB liquids and solids, landfill disposal of PCB solids, and remediation of PCB contamination at customer sites. 

Other Federal Laws. In addition to regulations specifically directed at the transportation, storage, and disposal facilities, there are a number of regulations that may "pass-through" to the facilities based on the acceptance of regulated waste from affected client facilities. Each facility that accepts affected waste must comply with the regulations for that waste, facility or industry. Examples of this type of regulation are National Emission Standards for Benzene Waste Operations and National Emissions Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production. Each of our facilities addresses these regulations on a case-by-case basis determined by its ability to comply with the pass-through regulations. 

In our transportation operations, we are regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Federal Railroad Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration and the U.S. Coast Guard, as well as by the regulatory agencies of each state in which we operate or through which our vehicles pass. 

Health and safety standards under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, or "OSHA," are also applicable to all of our operations. 

State and Local Regulations. Pursuant to the EPA's authorization of their RCRA equivalent programs, a number of U.S. states have regulatory programs governing the operations and permitting of hazardous waste facilities. Accordingly, the hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal activities of a number of our facilities are regulated by the relevant state agencies in addition to federal EPA regulation. 

Some states classify as hazardous some wastes that are not regulated under RCRA. For example, Massachusetts considers used oil as "hazardous waste" while RCRA does not. Accordingly, we must comply with state requirements for handling state regulated wastes, and, when necessary, obtain state licenses for treating, storing, and disposing of such wastes at our facilities. 

Our facilities are regulated pursuant to state statutes, including those addressing clean water and clean air. Local sewer discharge and flammable storage requirements are applicable to certain of our facilities. Our facilities are also subject to local siting, zoning and land use restrictions. We believe that each of our facilities is in substantial compliance with the applicable requirements of federal and state licenses which we have obtained pursuant thereto. Once issued, such licenses have maximum fixed terms of a given number of years, which differ from state to state, ranging from three to ten years. The issuing state agency may review or modify a license at any time during its term. We anticipate that once a license is issued with respect to a facility, the license will be renewed at the end of its term if the facility's operations are in compliance with applicable requirements. However, there can be no assurance that regulations governing future licensing will remain static, or that we will be able to comply with such requirements. 

Canadian Hazardous Waste Regulation 

In Canada, the provinces retain control over environmental issues within their boundaries and thus have the primary responsibility for regulating management of hazardous wastes. The federal government regulates issues of national scope or where activities cross provincial boundaries. 

Provincial Regulations. Most of Canada's industrial development and the major part of its population are located in four provinces: Ontario, Quebec, Alberta and British Columbia. These provinces have the most detailed environmental regulations. We operate major waste management facilities in each of these provinces, as well as waste transfer facilities in Nova Scotia and Manitoba. 

The main provincial acts dealing with hazardous waste management are: 

&#8226; 

Ontario&#8212;Environmental Protection Act; 

&#8226; 

Quebec&#8212;Environmental Quality Act; 

&#8226; 

Alberta&#8212;Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act; and 

&#8226; 

British Columbia&#8212;Waste Management Act. 

These pieces of legislation were developed by the provinces independently and, among other things, generally control the generation, characterization, transport, treatment and disposal of hazardous wastes. Regulations developed by the provinces under the relevant legislation are also developed independently, but are often quite similar in effect and sometimes in application. For example, there is some uniformity in manifest design and utilization. 

Provincial legislation also provides for the establishment of waste management facilities. In this case, the facilities are also controlled by provincial statutes and regulations governing emissions to air, groundwater and surface water and prescribing design criteria and operational guidelines. 

Waste transporters require a permit to operate under provincial waste management regulations and are subject to the requirements of the Federal Transportation of Dangerous Goods legislation. They are required to report the quantities and disposition of materials shipped. 

Canadian Federal Regulations. The Canadian federal government has authority for those matters which are national in scope and in impact and for Canada's relations with other nations. The main federal laws governing hazardous waste management are: 

&#8226; 

Canadian Environmental Protection Act (1999) ("CEPA 99"), and 

&#8226; 

Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act. 

Environment Canada is the federal agency with responsibility for environmental matters and the main legislative instrument is the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. This act charges Environment Canada and Health Canada with protection of human health and the environment and seeks to control the production, importation and use of substances in Canada and to control their impact on the environment. 

The Export and Import of Hazardous Wastes Regulations under CEPA 99 control the export and import of hazardous wastes and hazardous recyclable materials. By reference, these regulations incorporate the Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act and Regulations, which address identification, packaging, marking and documentation of hazardous materials during transport. CEPA 99 requires that anyone proposing to export or import hazardous wastes or hazardous recyclable materials or to 

transport them through Canada notify the Minister of the Environment and obtain a permit to do so. Section 9 of CEPA 99 allows the federal government to enter into administrative agreements with the provinces and territories for the development and improvement of environmental standards. These agreements represent cooperation towards a common goal rather than a delegation of authority under CEPA 99. To facilitate the development of provincial and territorial agreements, the federal, provincial and territorial governments participate in the Canadian Council of Ministers of the Environment ("CCME"). The CCME comprises the 14 environment ministers from the federal, provincial and territorial governments, who normally meet twice a year to discuss national environmental priorities and to determine work to be carried out under the auspices of the CCME. 

Canadian Local and Municipal Regulations. Local and municipal regulations seldom reference direct control of hazardous waste management activities. Municipal regulations and by-laws, however, control such issues as land use designation, access to municipal services and use of emergency services, all of which can have a significant impact on facility operation. 

Compliance with Environmental Regulations 

We incur costs and make capital investments in order to comply with the previously discussed environmental regulations. These regulations require that we remediate contaminated sites, operate our facilities in accordance with enacted regulations, obtain required financial assurance for closure and post-closure care of our facilities should such facilities cease operations, and make capital investments in order to keep our facilities in compliance with environmental regulations. 

As further discussed in Note 8, "Closure and Post-Closure Liabilities," and Note 9, "Remedial Liabilities," to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report, we have accrued environmental liabilities as of December 31, 2015 , of $188.2 million . For the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , we spent $20.1 million &#32;and $20.2 million , respectively, to address environmental liabilities. 

As discussed more fully above under the heading "Insurance and Financial Assurance," we are required to provide financial assurance with respect to certain statutorily required closure, post-closure and corrective action obligations at our facilities. We have placed the required financial assurance primarily through a qualified insurance company. 

As described in Note 16, "Commitments and Contingencies," to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report, we are involved in legal proceedings arising under environmental laws and regulations. Alleged failure to comply with laws and regulations may lead to the imposition of fines or the denial, revocation or delay of the renewal of permits and licenses by governmental entities. In addition, such governmental entities, as well as surrounding landowners, may claim that we are liable for environmental damages. Citizens groups have become increasingly active in challenging the grant or renewal of permits and licenses for hazardous waste facilities, and responding to such challenges has further increased the costs associated with establishing new facilities or expanding current facilities. A significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material effect on our business and future prospects. 

