 ITEM 1. BUSINESS General 

New York Community Bancorp, Inc. is organized under Delaware Law as a multi-bank holding company with two primary subsidiaries: New York Community Bank and New York Commercial Bank (hereinafter referred to as the &#147;Community Bank&#148; and the &#147;Commercial Bank,&#148; respectively, and collectively as the &#147;Banks&#148;). The Community Bank currently has 227 branches in Metro New York, New Jersey, Ohio, Florida, and Arizona, and the Commercial Bank currently has 30 branches in Metro New York. With assets of $50.3 billion at December 31, 2015&#151;including loans of $38.2 billion&#151;we rank among the 25 largest U.S. bank holding companies. 

On September 17, 2015, we submitted an application to our state and federal regulators requesting permission to merge the Commercial Bank with and into the Community Bank. Pending their approval, we expect to close the merger in the first half of 2016. 

On October 29, 2015, we announced the signing of a definitive merger agreement with Astoria Financial Corporation (&#147;Astoria Financial&#148;), which had assets of $15.1 billion and 88 branches at December 31, 2015. Pending shareholder approval and the approval of our state and federal regulators, the merger is currently expected to close by the fourth quarter of 2016. 

New York Community Bank 

Established in 1859, the Community Bank is a New York State-chartered savings bank with 227 branches that currently operate through seven local divisions. We compete for depositors in these diverse markets by emphasizing service and convenience, with a comprehensive menu of traditional and non-traditional products and services, and access to multiple service channels, including online banking, mobile banking, and banking by phone. 

In New York, we currently serve our Community Bank customers through Roslyn Savings Bank, with 44 branches on Long Island, a suburban market east of New York City comprised of Nassau and Suffolk counties; Queens County Savings Bank, with 38 branches in the New York City borough of Queens; Richmond County Savings Bank, with 20 branches in the borough of Staten Island; and Roosevelt Savings Bank, with eight branches in the borough of Brooklyn. In the Bronx, we currently have two branches that operate directly under the name &#147;New York Community Bank.&#148; 

In New Jersey, we serve our Community Bank customers through 46 branches that operate under the name Garden State Community Bank. In Florida and Arizona, where we have 27 and 14 branches, respectively, we serve our customers through the AmTrust Bank (&#147;AmTrust&#148;) division of the Community Bank. In Ohio, we serve our Community Bank customers through 28 branches of Ohio Savings Bank. 

We also are a leading producer of multi-family loans in New York City, with an emphasis on non-luxury residential apartment buildings that are rent-regulated and feature below-market rents. In addition to multi-family loans, which are our principal asset, we originate commercial real estate (&#147;CRE&#148;) loans (primarily in New York City, as well as on Long Island) and, to a much lesser extent, acquisition, development, and construction (&#147;ADC&#148;) loans, and commercial and industrial (&#147;C&#38;I&#148;) loans. C&#38;I loans consist of specialty finance loans and leases, and other C&#38;I loans that are typically made to small and mid-size business in Metro New York. 

Unlike the aforementioned loans, which are originated for investment, the one-to-four family loans we produce are primarily originated for sale. In 2015, the vast majority of the one-to-four family loans we produced were agency-conforming loans sold to government-sponsored enterprises (&#147;GSEs&#148;), servicing retained. 

Although the vast majority of the loans we produce for investment (i.e., for our portfolio) are secured by properties or businesses in New York City and, to a lesser extent, on Long Island, the one-to-four family loans we originate are for the purchase or refinancing of homes throughout the United States. 

New York Commercial Bank 

The Commercial Bank is a New York State-chartered commercial bank with 30 branches in Manhattan, Queens, Brooklyn, Westchester County, and Long Island, including 18 that operate under the name &#147;Atlantic Bank.&#148; 

Established in December 2005, the Commercial Bank competes for customers by emphasizing personal service and by addressing the needs of small and mid-size businesses, professional associations, and government agencies with a comprehensive menu of business solutions, including installment loans, revolving lines of credit, and cash management services. In addition, the Commercial Bank offers 24-hour banking online, mobile banking, and banking by phone. 

&#160; 

Customers of the Commercial Bank may transact their business at any of our 227 Community Bank branches, and Community Bank customers may transact their business at any of the 30 branches of the Commercial Bank. In addition, customers of the Banks have access to their accounts through our ATMs in all five states. 

On September 17, 2015, the Company submitted an application to the FDIC and the New York State Department of Financial Services (the &#147;NYSDFS&#148;) requesting approval to merge the Commercial Bank with and into the Community Bank. Upon completion of the proposed merger, the 30 Commercial Bank branches will continue operations as branches of the Community Bank. 

Online Information about the Company and the Banks 

We also serve our customers through three connected websites: www.myNYCB.com, www.NewYorkCommercialBank.com, and www.NYCBfamily.com. In addition to providing our customers with 24-hour access to their accounts, and information regarding our products and services, hours of service, and locations, these websites provide extensive information about the Company for the investment community. Earnings releases, dividend announcements, and other press releases are posted upon issuance to the Investor Relations portion of these websites. In addition, our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;) (including our annual report on Form 10-K; our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; and our current reports on Form 8-K), and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available without charge, and are posted to the Investor Relations portion of our websites within minutes of being filed. The websites also provide information regarding our Board of Directors and management team, as well as certain Board Committee charters and our corporate governance policies. The content of our websites shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 

Our Market 

Our current market for deposits consists of the 26 counties in the five states that are served by our branch network, including all five boroughs of New York City, Nassau and Suffolk Counties on Long Island, and Westchester County in New York; Essex, Hudson, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, Ocean, and Union Counties in New Jersey; Maricopa and Yavapai Counties in Arizona; Cuyahoga, Lake, and Summit Counties in Ohio; and Broward, Collier, Lee, Miami-Dade, Palm Beach, and St. Lucie Counties in Florida. 

The market for the loans we produce varies, depending on the type of loan. For example, the vast majority of our multi-family loans are collateralized by rental apartment buildings in New York City, which is also home to the majority of the properties collateralizing our CRE and ADC loans. In contrast, we originate one-to-four family mortgage loans in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and our specialty finance loans and leases are generally made to large corporate obligors that participate in stable nationwide industries. 

Competition for Deposits 

The combined population of the 26 counties where our branches are located is approximately 30.7 million, and the number of banks and thrifts we compete with currently exceeds 310, including Astoria Bank, the primary subsidiary of Astoria Financial. With total deposits of $28.4 billion at December 31, 2015, we ranked ninth among all bank and thrift depositories serving these 26 counties. We also ranked third among all banks and thrifts in Richmond County, and fourth in both Queens and Nassau Counties in New York. (Market share information was provided by SNL Financial.) We also compete for deposits with other financial institutions, including credit unions, Internet banks, and brokerage firms. 

Our ability to attract and retain deposits is not only a function of short-term interest rates and industry consolidation, but also the competitiveness of the rates being offered by other financial institutions within our marketplace. 

Competition for deposits is also influenced by several internal factors, including the opportunity to assume or acquire deposits through business combinations; the cash flows produced through loan and securities repayments and sales; and the availability of attractively priced wholesale funds. In addition, the degree to which we seek to compete for deposits is influenced by the liquidity needed to fund our loan production and other outstanding commitments. 

&#160; 

We vie for deposits and customers by placing an emphasis on convenience and service and, from time to time, by offering specific products at highly competitive rates. In addition to our 227 Community Bank branches and 30 Commercial Bank branches, we have 273 ATM locations, including 249 that operate 24 hours a day. Our customers also have 24-hour access to their accounts through our bank-by-phone service, on their cell phones through mobile banking, and online through our three websites, www.myNYCB.com, www.NewYorkCommercialBank.com, and www.NYCBfamily.com. We also offer certain higher-paying money market accounts and certificates of deposit (&#147;CDs&#148;) through two dedicated websites: www.myBankingDirect.com and www.AmTrustDirect.com. 

We also compete by complementing our broad selection of traditional banking products with an extensive menu of alternative financial services, including annuities, life and long-term care insurance, and mutual funds of various third-party service providers. In addition, customers who come to us seeking a residential mortgage can begin the application process by phone, online, or in any branch. 

In addition to checking and savings accounts, Individual Retirement Accounts, and CDs for both businesses and consumers, we offer a suite of cash management products to address the needs of small and mid-size businesses and professional associations. 

Another competitive advantage is our strong community presence, with April 14, 2015 having marked the 156th year of service of our forebear, Queens County Savings Bank. We have found that our longevity, as well as our strong capital position, are especially appealing to customers seeking a strong, stable, and service-oriented bank. 

Competition for Loans 

Our success as a lender is substantially tied to the economic health of the markets where we lend. Local economic conditions have a significant impact on loan demand, the value of the collateral securing our credits, and the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. 

The competition we face for loans also varies with the type of loan we are originating. In New York City, where the majority of the buildings collateralizing our multi-family loans are located, we compete for such loans on the basis of timely service and the expertise that stems from being a specialist in this lending niche. In addition to the money center, regional, and local banks we compete with in this market, we compete with insurance companies and other types of lenders. Certain of the banks we compete with sell the loans they produce to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

Our ability to compete for CRE loans depends on the same factors that impact our ability to compete for multi-family credits, and the degree to which other CRE lenders choose to offer loan products similar to ours. 

While we continue to originate a limited number of one-to-four family, ADC, and C&#38;I loans for investment, such loans represent a small portion of our loan portfolio as compared to multi-family and CRE loans. 

We also compete with a significant number of financial and non-financial institutions throughout the nation that originate and aggregate one-to-four family loans for sale. Reflecting the volume of loans funded in 2015 through our mortgage banking operation, we currently rank among the 25 largest aggregators of one-to-four family loans in the United States. 

Environmental Issues 

We encounter certain environmental risks in our lending activities and other operations. The existence of hazardous materials may make it unattractive for a lender to foreclose on the properties securing its loans. In addition, under certain conditions, lenders may become liable for the costs of cleaning up hazardous materials found on such properties. We attempt to mitigate such environmental risks by requiring either that a borrower purchase environmental insurance or that an appropriate environmental site assessment be completed as part of our underwriting review on the initial granting of CRE and ADC loans, regardless of location, and of any out-of-state multi-family loans we may produce. Depending on the results of an assessment, appropriate measures are taken to address the identified risks. In addition, we order an updated environmental analysis prior to foreclosing on such properties, and typically hold foreclosed multi-family, CRE, and ADC properties in subsidiaries. 

Our attention to environmental risks also applies to the properties and facilities that house our bank operations. Prior to acquiring a large-scale property, a Phase 1 Environmental Property Assessment is typically performed by a licensed professional engineer to determine the integrity of, and/or the potential risk associated with, the facility and the property on which it is built. Properties and facilities of a smaller scale are evaluated by qualified 

&#160; 

in-house assessors, as well as by industry experts in environmental testing and remediation. This two-pronged approach identifies potential risks associated with asbestos-containing material, above and underground storage tanks, radon, electrical transformers (which may contain PCBs), ground water flow, storm and sanitary discharge, and mold, among other environmental risks. These processes assist us in mitigating environmental risk by enabling us to identify and address potential issues, including by avoiding taking ownership or control of contaminated properties. 

Subsidiary Activities 

The Community Bank has formed, or acquired through merger transactions, 28 active subsidiary corporations. Of these, 21 are direct subsidiaries of the Community Bank and seven are subsidiaries of Community Bank-owned entities. 

The 21 direct subsidiaries of the Community Bank are: 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Jurisdiction of Organization &#160; Purpose 

DHB Real Estate, LLC 

&#160; Arizona &#160; Organized to own interests in real estate Ferry Development Holding Company 

&#160; Delaware &#160; Formed to hold and manage investment portfolios for the Company Mt. Sinai Ventures, LLC 

&#160; Delaware &#160; A joint venture partner in the development, construction, and sale of a 177-unit golf course community in Mt. Sinai, NY, all the units of which were sold by December 31, 2006 NYCB Mortgage Company, LLC 

&#160; Delaware &#160; Holds certain assets, including interests in real estate NYCB Specialty Finance Company, LLC 

&#160; Delaware &#160; Originates asset-based, equipment finance, and dealer-floor plan loans Realty Funding Company, LLC 

&#160; Delaware &#160; Holding company for subsidiaries owning an interest in real estate Woodhaven Investments, LLC 

&#160; Delaware &#160; Holding company for Ironbound Investment Company, Inc. Eagle Rock Investment Corp. 

&#160; New Jersey &#160; Formed to hold and manage investment portfolios for the Company Pacific Urban Renewal, Inc. 

&#160; New Jersey &#160; Owns a branch building Synergy Capital Investments, Inc. 

&#160; New Jersey &#160; Formed to hold and manage investment portfolios for the Company BSR 1400 Corp. 

&#160; New York &#160; Organized to own interests in real estate Bellingham Corp. 

&#160; New York &#160; Organized to own interests in real estate Blizzard Realty Corp. 

&#160; New York &#160; Organized to own interests in real estate CFS Investments, Inc. 

&#160; New York &#160; Sells non-deposit investment products Main Omni Realty Corp. 

&#160; New York &#160; Organized to own interests in real estate NYB Realty Holding Company, LLC 

&#160; New York &#160; Holding company for subsidiaries owning interests in real estate O.B. Ventures, LLC 

&#160; New York &#160; A joint venture partner in a 370-unit residential community in Plainview, New York, all the units of which were sold by December 31, 2004 RCBK Mortgage Corp. 

&#160; New York &#160; Organized to own interests in certain multi-family loans RSB Agency, Inc. 

&#160; New York &#160; Sells non-deposit investment products Richmond Enterprises, Inc. 

&#160; New York &#160; Holding company for Peter B. Cannell &#38; Co., Inc. Roslyn National Mortgage Corporation 

&#160; New York &#160; Formerly operated as a mortgage loan originator and servicer &#160; 

The seven subsidiaries of Community Bank-owned entities are: 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Jurisdiction of Organization 

&#160; Purpose 

Peter B. Cannell &#38; Co., Inc. 

&#160; Delaware &#160; Advises high net worth individuals and institutions on the management of their assets Roslyn Real Estate Asset Corp. 

&#160; Delaware &#160; A REIT organized for the purpose of investing in mortgage-related assets Walnut Realty Holding Company, LLC 

&#160; Delaware &#160; Established to own Bank-owned properties Your New REO, LLC 

&#160; Delaware &#160; Owns a website that lists bank-owned properties for sale Ironbound Investment Company, LLC 

&#160; Florida &#160; Organized for the purpose of investing in mortgage-related assets; is the principal shareholder of Richmond County Capital Corporation 1400 Corp. 

&#160; New York &#160; Holding company for Roslyn Real Estate Asset Corp. Richmond County Capital Corporation 

&#160; New York &#160; Organized for the purpose of investing in mortgage-related assets There are 88 additional entities that are subsidiaries of a Community Bank-owned entity organized to own interests in real estate. 

The Commercial Bank has four active subsidiary corporations, two of which are subsidiaries of Commercial Bank-owned entities. 

The two direct subsidiaries of the Commercial Bank are: 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Jurisdiction of Organization 

&#160; Purpose 

Beta Investments, Inc. 

&#160; Delaware &#160; Holding company for Omega Commercial Mortgage Corp. and Long Island Commercial Capital Corp. Gramercy Leasing Services, Inc. 

&#160; New York &#160; Provides equipment lease financing The two subsidiaries of Commercial Bank-owned entities are: 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Jurisdiction of Organization 

&#160; Purpose 

Omega Commercial Mortgage Corp. 

&#160; Delaware &#160; A REIT organized for the purpose of investing in mortgage-related assets Long Island Commercial Capital Corp. 

&#160; New York &#160; A REIT organized for the purpose of investing in mortgage-related assets There are four additional entities that are subsidiaries of the Commercial Bank that are organized to own interests in real estate. 

The Company also owns special business trusts that were formed for the purpose of issuing capital and common securities and investing the proceeds thereof in the junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company. Please see Note 8, &#147;Borrowed Funds,&#148; in Item 8, &#147;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,&#148; for a further discussion of the Company&#146;s special business trusts. 

The Company also has one non-banking subsidiary that was established in connection with the acquisition of Atlantic Bank of New York in 2006. 

Personnel 

At December 31, 2015, the number of full-time equivalent employees was 3,448. Our employees are not represented by a collective bargaining unit, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

&#160; 

Federal, State, and Local Taxation 

The Company is subject to federal, state, and local income taxes. Please see the discussion of &#147;Income Taxes&#148; in &#147;Critical Accounting Policies&#148; in Item 7, &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,&#148; later in this annual report. 

Regulation and Supervision 

General 

The Community Bank is a New York State-chartered savings bank and its deposit accounts are insured under the Deposit Insurance Fund (the &#147;DIF&#148;) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#147;FDIC&#148;) up to applicable legal limits. The Commercial Bank is a New York State-chartered commercial bank and its deposit accounts also are insured by the DIF up to applicable legal limits. On September 17, 2015, the Company submitted an application to the FDIC and the NYSDFS requesting approval to merge the Commercial Bank with and into the Community Bank. 

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, the Community Bank and the Commercial Bank were subject to regulation and supervision by the NYSDFS, as their chartering agency; by the FDIC, as their insurer of deposits; and by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the &#147;CFPB&#148;). 

The Banks are required to file reports with the NYSDFS, the FDIC, and the CFPB concerning their activities and financial condition, and are periodically examined by the NYSDFS, the FDIC, and the CFPB to assess compliance with various regulatory requirements, including with respect to safety and soundness and consumer financial protection regulations. The regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss allowances for regulatory purposes. Changes in such regulations or in banking legislation could have a material impact on the Company, the Banks, and their operations, as well as the Company&#146;s shareholders. 

The Company is subject to examination, regulation, and periodic reporting under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#147;BHCA&#148;), as administered by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#147;FRB&#148;). Furthermore, the Company would be required to obtain the prior approval of the FRB to acquire all, or substantially all, of the assets of any bank or bank holding company. 

In addition, the Company is periodically examined by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the &#147;FRB-NY&#148;), and is required to file certain reports under, and otherwise comply with, the rules and regulations of the SEC under federal securities laws. Certain of the regulatory requirements applicable to the Community Bank, the Commercial Bank, and the Company are referred to below or elsewhere herein. However, such discussion is not meant to be a complete explanation of all laws and regulations, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual laws and regulations. 

The Dodd-Frank Act 

Enacted in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#147;Dodd-Frank Act&#148;) significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and will continue to affect, into the immediate future, the lending and investment activities and general operations of depository institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act is complex and comprehensive legislation that impacts practically all aspects of a banking organization, and represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry. 

Capital Requirements 

In early July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved revisions to their capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules to implement the revised standards of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly called Basel III, and address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. &#147;Basel III&#148; generally refers to two consultative documents released by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2009. The &#147;Basel III Rules&#148; generally refer to the rules adopted by U.S. banking regulators in December 2010 to align U.S. bank capital requirements with Basel III and with the related loss absorbency rules they issued in January 2011, which include significant changes to bank capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements. 

The Basel III Rules include new risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective January 1, 2015, and revised the definition of what constitutes &#147;capital&#148; for purposes of calculating those ratios. Under the Basel III Rules, the Company and the Banks are required to maintain minimum capital in accordance with the following ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from the prior rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. 

&#160; 

In addition, the Basel III Rules assign higher risk weights to certain assets, such as the 150% risk weighting assigned to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status, and to certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development, or construction of real property. The Basel III Rules also eliminate the inclusion of certain instruments, such as trust preferred securities, from Tier 1 capital. In addition, Tier 2 capital is no longer limited to the amount of Tier 1 capital included in total capital. Mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets, and investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries over designated percentages of common stock will be required to be deducted from capital, subject to a two-year transition period. Finally, Tier 1 capital will include accumulated other comprehensive income, which includes all unrealized gains and losses on available-for- sale debt and equity securities. 

The Basel III Rules also require FDIC-insured state non-member banks and bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion (&#147;covered institutions&#148;) to establish a &#147;capital conservation buffer&#148; (consisting entirely of common equity Tier 1 capital) that will be 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital requirements when it is fully phased in. The result will be an increase in the minimum common equity Tier 1, Tier 1, and Total capital ratios to 7.0%, 8.5%, and 10.5%, respectively. The new capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase by that amount each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution can be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital levels fall below these amounts. The Basel III Rules also establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such capital distributions. 

Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action 

Federal law requires, among other things, that federal bank regulatory authorities take &#147;prompt corrective action&#148; with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. For such purposes, the law establishes five capital tiers: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. 

As a result of the Basel III Rules, new definitions of the relevant measures for the five capital categories took effect on January 1, 2015. An institution is deemed to be &#147;well capitalized&#148; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.5% or greater, and a leverage capital ratio of 5% or greater, and is not subject to a regulatory order, agreement, or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 

An institution is deemed to be &#147;adequately capitalized&#148; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% or greater, and generally a leverage capital ratio of 4% or greater. 

An institution is deemed to be &#147;undercapitalized&#148; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.5%, or generally a leverage capital ratio of less than 4%. An institution is deemed to be &#147;significantly undercapitalized&#148; if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4%, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3%, or a leverage capital ratio of less than 3%. An institution is deemed to be &#147;critically undercapitalized&#148; if it has a ratio of tangible equity (as defined in the regulations) to total assets that is equal to or less than 2%. 

&#147;Undercapitalized&#148; institutions are subject to growth, capital distribution (including dividend), and other limitations, and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. An institution&#146;s compliance with such a plan is required to be guaranteed by any company that controls the undercapitalized institution in an amount equal to the lesser of 5% of the bank&#146;s total assets when deemed undercapitalized or the amount necessary to achieve the status of adequately capitalized. If an undercapitalized institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is &#147;significantly undercapitalized.&#148; Significantly undercapitalized institutions are subject to one or more additional restrictions including, but not limited to, an order by the FDIC to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized; requirements to reduce total assets, cease receipt of deposits from correspondent banks, or dismiss directors or officers; and restrictions on interest rates paid on deposits, compensation of executive officers, and capital distributions by the parent holding company. 

&#160; 

Beginning 60 days after becoming &#147;critically undercapitalized,&#148; critically undercapitalized institutions also may not make any payment of principal or interest on certain subordinated debt, extend credit for a highly leveraged transaction, or enter into any material transaction outside the ordinary course of business. In addition, subject to a narrow exception, the appointment of a receiver is required for a critically undercapitalized institution within 270 days after it obtains such status. 

Stress Testing 

Stress Testing for Banks with Assets of $10 Billion to $50 Billion 

FDIC and FRB regulations require certain large insured depository institutions and bank holding companies to conduct annual capital-adequacy stress tests. The rules apply to covered institutions, as defined on the preceding page. 

Under the rules, each covered institution with between $10 billion and $50 billion in assets is required to conduct annual stress tests, using the institution&#146;s financial data as of December 31st of the preceding year, to assess the potential impact of different scenarios on the consolidated earnings and capital and certain related items over a nine-quarter, forward-looking planning horizon, taking into account all relevant exposures and activities. The Community Bank and the Company are required to report the results of the stress tests to the FDIC and the FRB, respectively, on or before July 31st of each year and to subsequently publish a summary of the results between October 15th and October 31st. The rules prescribe the manner and form for such reports and, based on the information reported as well as other relevant information, the FDIC and FRB are expected to conduct an analysis of the quality of the respective covered institution&#146;s stress test processes and the related results. The FDIC and FRB envision that feedback concerning such analysis would be provided to each covered institution through the supervisory process. 

As discussed below, under the FRB&#146;s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (&#147;CCAR&#148;) regime, additional capital stress testing requirements apply to financial institutions whose four-quarter average total consolidated assets exceed $50 billion. 

Boards of directors of covered institutions are required to review and approve capital plans before submitting them to the FRB. 

Stress Testing for Large Bank Holding Companies 

We currently expect that the average of the Company&#146;s total consolidated assets over the four most recent quarters will reach or exceed $50 billion in the second quarter of 2016. As a result, the Company is expected to become subject to the FRB&#146;s stress testing regulations administered under its CCAR capital planning and supervisory process. Under this regime, in addition to reporting the results of a covered institution&#146;s own capital stress testing, the FRB will use its own models to evaluate whether each covered institution has the capital, on a total consolidated basis, necessary to continue operating under the economic and financial market conditions of stressed macroeconomic scenarios identified by the FRB. The FRB&#146;s analysis will include an assessment of the projected losses, net income, and pro forma capital levels, and the regulatory capital ratio, tier 1 common ratio, and other capital ratios, for the covered institution, and use such analytical techniques that the FRB determines to be appropriate to identify, measure, and monitor any risks of the covered institution that may affect the financial stability of the United States. 

A covered institution&#146;s capital adequacy will be assessed against a number of quantitative and qualitative criteria, including projected performance under the stress scenarios provided by the FRB and the covered institution&#146;s internal scenarios. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

Federal law requires each federal banking agency to prescribe, for the depository institutions under its jurisdiction, standards that relate to, among other things, internal controls; information and audit systems; loan documentation; credit underwriting; the monitoring of interest rate risk; asset growth; compensation; fees and benefits; and such other operational and managerial standards as the agency deems appropriate. The federal banking agencies adopted final regulations and Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness (the &#147;Guidelines&#148;) to implement these safety and soundness standards. The Guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If the appropriate federal banking agency determines that an institution fails to meet any standard prescribed by the Guidelines, the agency may require the institution to provide it with an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard, as required by the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, (the &#147;FDI Act&#148;). 

&#160; 

FDIC Regulations 

The discussion that follows pertains to FDIC Regulations other than those already discussed on the preceding pages. 

Real Estate Lending Standards 

The FDIC and the other federal banking agencies have adopted regulations that prescribe standards for extensions of credit that (i) are secured by real estate, or (ii) are made for the purpose of financing construction or improvements on real estate. The FDIC regulations require each institution to establish and maintain written internal real estate lending standards that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices, and appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature and scope of its real estate lending activities. The standards also must be consistent with accompanying FDIC Guidelines, which include loan-to-value limitations for the different types of real estate loans. Institutions are also permitted to make a limited amount of loans that do not conform to the proposed loan-to-value limitations so long as such exceptions are reviewed and justified appropriately. The Guidelines also list a number of lending situations in which exceptions to the loan-to-value standards are justified. 

The FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the FRB (collectively, the &#147;Agencies&#148;) also have issued joint guidance entitled &#147;Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices&#148; (the &#147;CRE Guidance&#148;). The CRE Guidance, which addresses land development, construction, and certain multi-family loans, as well as CRE loans, does not establish specific lending limits but, rather, reinforces and enhances the Agencies&#146; existing regulations and guidelines for such lending and portfolio management. 

Dividend Limitations 

The FDIC has authority to use its enforcement powers to prohibit a savings bank or commercial bank from paying dividends if, in its opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Federal law prohibits the payment of dividends that will result in the institution failing to meet applicable capital requirements on a pro forma basis. The Community Bank and the Commercial Bank are also subject to dividend declaration restrictions imposed by, and as later discussed under, &#147;New York State Law.&#148; 

Investment Activities 

Since the enactment of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (&#147;FDICIA&#148;), all state-chartered financial institutions, including savings banks, commercial banks, and their subsidiaries, have generally been limited to such activities as principal and equity investments of the type, and in the amount, authorized for national banks. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 and FDIC regulations impose certain quantitative and qualitative restrictions on such activities and on a bank&#146;s dealings with a subsidiary that engages in specified activities. 

In 1993, the Community Bank received grandfathering authority from the FDIC, which it continues to use, to invest in listed stocks and/or registered shares subject to the maximum permissible investments of 100% of Tier 1 capital, as specified by the FDIC&#146;s regulations, or the maximum amount permitted by New York State Banking Law, whichever is less. Such grandfathering authority is subject to termination upon the FDIC&#146;s determination that such investments pose a safety and soundness risk to the Community Bank, or in the event that the Community Bank converts its charter or undergoes a change in control. 

Enforcement 

The FDIC has extensive enforcement authority over insured banks, including the Community Bank and the Commercial Bank. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist orders, and to remove directors and officers. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated in response to violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. 

Insurance of Deposit Accounts 

The deposits of the Community Bank and the Commercial Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the DIF. The maximum deposit insurance provided by the FDIC per account owner is $250,000 for all types of accounts. 

&#160; 

Under the FDIC&#146;s risk-based assessment system, insured institutions are assigned to one of four risk categories based upon supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital level, and certain other factors, with less risky institutions paying lower assessments based on the assigned risk levels. An institution&#146;s assessment rate depends upon the category to which it is assigned and certain other factors. Assessment rates range from 2.5 to 45 basis points on the institution&#146;s assessment base, which is calculated as total assets minus tangible equity. 

Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that an institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or condition imposed by the FDIC. Management does not know of any practice, condition, or violation that would lead to termination of the deposit insurance of either of the Banks. 

Holding Company Regulation 

Federal Regulation 

The Company is currently subject to examination, regulation, and periodic reporting under the BHCA, as administered by the FRB. 

The Company is required to obtain the prior approval of the FRB to acquire all, or substantially all, of the assets of any bank or bank holding company. Prior FRB approval would be required for the Company to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting securities of any bank or bank holding company if, after giving effect to such acquisition, it would, directly or indirectly, own or control more than 5% of any class of voting shares of such bank or bank holding company. In addition, before any bank acquisition can be completed, prior approval thereof may also be required to be obtained from other agencies having supervisory jurisdiction over the bank to be acquired, including the NYSDFS. 

FRB regulations generally prohibit a bank holding company from engaging in, or acquiring, direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the voting securities of any company engaged in non-banking activities. One of the principal exceptions to this prohibition is for activities found by the FRB to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Some of the principal activities that the FRB has determined by regulation to be so closely related to banking are: (i) making or servicing loans; (ii) performing certain data processing services; (iii) providing discount brokerage services; (iv) acting as fiduciary, investment, or financial advisor; (v) leasing personal or real property; (vi) making investments in corporations or projects designed primarily to promote community welfare; and (vii) acquiring a savings and loan association. 

The FRB has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends by bank holding companies. In general, the FRB&#146;s policies provide that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the bank holding company appears consistent with the organization&#146;s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. The FRB&#146;s policies also require that a bank holding company serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks by standing ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to those banks during periods of financial stress or adversity, and by maintaining the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary banks where necessary. The Dodd-Frank Act codified the source of financial strength policy and requires regulations to facilitate its application. Under the prompt corrective action laws, the ability of a bank holding company to pay dividends may be restricted if a subsidiary bank becomes undercapitalized. These regulatory policies could affect the ability of the Company to pay dividends or otherwise engage in capital distributions. 

The status of the Company as a registered bank holding company under the BHCA does not exempt it from certain federal and state laws and regulations applicable to corporations generally, including, without limitation, certain provisions of the federal securities laws. 

The Company expects that new capital planning guidance issued by the FRB in December 2015 for &#147;Large and Noncomplex Firms&#148; will require it to expand its current capital stress testing and planning, beginning in 2018. 

New York State Regulation 

The Company is subject to regulation as a &#147;multi-bank holding company&#148; under New York State law since it controls two banking institutions. Among other requirements, this means that the Company must receive the approval of the New York State Banking Board prior to the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting stock of another banking institution, or to otherwise acquire a banking institution by merger or purchase. 

&#160; 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Under current federal law, transactions between depository institutions and their affiliates are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the FRB&#146;s Regulation W promulgated thereunder. Generally, Section 23A limits the extent to which the institution or its subsidiaries may engage in &#147;covered transactions&#148; with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10% of the institution&#146;s capital stock and surplus, and contains an aggregate limit on all such transactions with all affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of such capital stock and surplus. Section 23A also establishes specific collateral requirements for loans or extensions of credit to, or guarantees or acceptances on letters of credit issued on behalf of, an affiliate. Section 23B requires that covered transactions and a broad list of other specified transactions be on terms substantially the same as, or at least as favorable to, the institution or its subsidiaries as similar transactions with non-affiliates. 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 generally prohibits loans by the Company to its executive officers and directors. However, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act contains a specific exemption for loans by an institution to its executive officers and directors in compliance with other federal banking laws. Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, and FRB Regulation O adopted thereunder, govern loans by a savings bank or commercial bank to directors, executive officers, and principal shareholders. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

Federal Regulation 

Under the Community Reinvestment Act (&#147;CRA&#148;), as implemented by FDIC regulations, an institution has a continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with its safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA generally does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions, nor does it limit an institution&#146;s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. In its most recent FDIC CRA performance evaluation, the Community Bank received overall state ratings of &#147;satisfactory&#148; for Ohio, Florida, Arizona, and New Jersey, as well as for the New York/New Jersey multi-state region. Furthermore, the most recent overall FDIC CRA ratings for the Community Bank and the Commercial Bank were &#147;Satisfactory.&#148; 

New York State Regulation 

The Community Bank and the Commercial Bank also are subject to provisions of the New York State Banking Law that impose continuing and affirmative obligations upon a banking institution organized in New York State to serve the credit needs of its local community. Such obligations are substantially similar to those imposed by the CRA. The latest CRA rating received by each of the Community Bank and the Commercial Bank under State Law was &#147;satisfactory.&#148; 

Federal Reserve System 

Under FRB regulations, the Community Bank and the Commercial Bank are required to maintain reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts). Beginning January 2016, the Banks are required to maintain average daily reserves equal to 3% on aggregate transaction accounts of up to $110.2 million, plus 10% on the remainder, and the first $15.2 million of otherwise reservable balances will both be exempt. These reserve requirements are subject to adjustment by the FRB. The Community Bank and the Commercial Bank currently are in compliance with the foregoing requirements. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System 

The Community Bank and the Commercial Bank are members of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (the &#147;FHLB-NY&#148;). As members of the FHLB-NY, the Community Bank and the Commercial Bank are required to acquire and hold shares of FHLB-NY capital stock. At December 31, 2015, the Community Bank held $625.9 million of FHLB-NY stock and the Commercial Bank held FHLB-NY stock of $38.1 million. 

New York State Law 

The Community Bank and the Commercial Bank derive their lending, investment, and other authority primarily from the applicable provisions of New York State Banking Law and the regulations of the NYSDFS, as limited by FDIC regulations. Under these laws and regulations, banks, including the Community Bank and the Commercial Bank, may invest in real estate mortgages, consumer and commercial loans, certain types of debt securities (including certain corporate debt securities, and obligations of federal, state, and local governments and agencies), certain types of corporate equity securities, and certain other assets. 

&#160; 

Under New York State Banking Law, New York State-chartered stock-form savings banks and commercial banks may declare and pay dividends out of their net profits, unless there is an impairment of capital, but approval of the Superintendent is required if the total of all dividends declared by the bank in a calendar year would exceed the total of its net profits for that year combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years less prior dividends paid. 

New York State Banking Law gives the Superintendent authority to issue an order to a New York State-chartered banking institution to appear and explain an apparent violation of law, to discontinue unauthorized or unsafe practices, and to keep prescribed books and accounts. Upon a finding by the NYSDFS that any director, trustee, or officer of any banking organization has violated any law, or has continued unauthorized or unsafe practices in conducting the business of the banking organization after having been notified by the Superintendent to discontinue such practices, such director, trustee, or officer may be removed from office after notice and an opportunity to be heard. The Superintendent also has authority to appoint a conservator or a receiver for a savings or commercial bank under certain circumstances. 

Interstate Branching 

Federal law allows the FDIC, and New York State Banking Law allows the Superintendent, to approve an application by a state banking institution to acquire interstate branches by merger, unless, in the case of the FDIC, the state of the target institution has opted out of interstate branching. New York State Banking Law authorizes savings banks and commercial banks to open and occupy de novo branches outside the state of New York. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC is authorized to approve a state bank&#146;s establishment of a de novo interstate branch if the intended host state allows de novo branching by banks chartered by that state. The Community Bank currently maintains 46 branches in New Jersey, 27 branches in Florida, 28 branches in Ohio, and 14 branches in Arizona, in addition to its 112 branches in New York State. 

Acquisition of the Holding Company 

Federal Restrictions 

Under the Federal Change in Bank Control Act (&#147;CIBCA&#148;), a notice must be submitted to the FRB if any person (including a company), or group acting in concert, seeks to acquire 10% or more of the Company&#146;s shares of outstanding common stock, unless the FRB has found that the acquisition will not result in a change in control of the Company. Under the CIBCA, the FRB generally has 60 days within which to act on such notices, taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and managerial resources of the acquirer; the convenience and needs of the communities served by the Company, the Community Bank, and the Commercial Bank; and the anti-trust effects of the acquisition. Under the BHCA, any company would be required to obtain approval from the FRB before it may obtain &#147;control&#148; of the Company within the meaning of the BHCA. Control generally is defined to mean the ownership or power to vote 25% or more of any class of voting securities of the Company or the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of the Company&#146;s directors. Under the BHA, an existing bank holding company would be required to obtain the FRB&#146;s approval before acquiring more than 5% of the Company&#146;s voting stock. Please see &#147;Holding Company Regulation&#148; earlier in this report. 

New York State Change in Control Restrictions 

New York State Banking Law generally requires prior approval of the New York State Banking Board before any action is taken that causes any company to acquire direct or indirect control of a banking institution which is organized in New York. 

Federal Securities Law 

The Company&#146;s common stock and certain other securities listed on the cover page of this report are registered with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;). The Company is subject to the information and proxy solicitation requirements, insider trading restrictions, and other requirements under the Exchange Act. 

Consumer Protection Regulations 

The activities of the Company&#146;s banking subsidiaries, including their lending and deposit gathering activities, are subject to a variety of consumer laws and regulations designed to protect consumers. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements, and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with clients and monitor account activity when taking deposits from, making loans to, or engaging in other types of transactions with, such clients. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to substantial penalties, operating restrictions, and reputational damage to the financial institution. 

&#160; 

Applicable consumer protection laws include, but may not be limited to, the Dodd-Frank Act, Truth in Lending Act, Truth in Savings Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Fair Housing Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Expedited Funds Availability (Regulation CC), Reserve Requirements (Regulation D), Insider Transactions (Regulation O), Privacy of Consumer Information (Regulation P), Margin Stock Loans (Regulation U), Right To Financial Privacy Act, Flood Disaster Protection Act, Homeowners Protection Act, Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Telephone Consumer Protection Act, CAN-SPAM Act, Children&#146;s Online Privacy Protection Act, and the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act. 

In addition, the Banks and their subsidiaries are subject to certain state laws and regulations designed to protect consumers. 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 

The Banks are subject to oversight by the CFPB within the Federal Reserve System. The CFPB was established under the Dodd-Frank Act to implement rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer financial laws that apply to all banks, including, among other things, the authority to prohibit acts and practices that are deemed to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive. Abusive acts or practices are defined as those that (1) materially interfere with a consumer&#146;s ability to understand a term or condition of a consumer financial product or service, or (2) take unreasonable advantage of a consumer&#146;s (a) lack of financial savvy, (b) inability to protect himself in the selection or use of consumer financial products or services, or (c) reasonable reliance on a covered entity to act in the consumer&#146;s interests. The CFPB has the authority to investigate possible violations of federal consumer financial law, hold hearings, and commence civil litigation. The CFPB can issue cease-and-desist orders against banks and other entities that violate consumer financial laws. The CFPB also may institute a civil action against an entity in violation of federal consumer financial law in order to impose a civil penalty or an injunction. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets, as well as certain of their affiliates. 

Enterprise Risk Management 

The Company&#146;s and the Banks&#146; Boards of Directors are actively engaged in the process of overseeing our efforts to identify, measure, monitor, and mitigate risk. We maintain various internal controls to address risks that threaten our ability to achieve our goals and objectives, including with respect to safety and soundness and consumer protection. We have established an Enterprise Risk Management (&#147;ERM&#148;) program, which follows the FRB&#146;s guidance on the adequacy of risk management processes and internal controls. Our risk management controls are designed to conform to the principles set forth in the 2013 Internal Control Integrated Framework established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (&#147;COSO&#148;). 

The Boards are responsible for the approval and oversight of the execution of the ERM Program; setting and revising the Company and the Banks&#146; risk appetite in conjunction with the goals and objectives set forth in the Strategic Plan; and reviewing key risk indicators against established risk warning levels and limits, including those identified in reports presented by the Chief Risk Officer. 

&#160;

