 Item 1. Business. 

Our Company 

Western Asset Mortgage Capital Corporation and Subsidiaries (the "Company" unless otherwise indicated or except where the context otherwise requires "we", "us" or "our") is a Delaware corporation commencing operations in May 2012, focused on investing in, financing and managing a diversified portfolio of real estate related securities, whole loans and other financial assets. Our investment strategy is based on Western Asset Management Company's (our "Manager") perspective of which mix of portfolio assets it believes provides us with the best risk-reward opportunities at any given time. Our Manager will vary the allocation among various asset classes subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT under the federal tax law and maintaining our exemption from the 1940 Act. These restrictions limit our ability to invest in non-real estate assets and/or assets which are not secured by real estate. 

We raised approximately $720.0 million, after subtracting underwriting commissions and offering expenses, and have invested the proceeds of our initial public offering or IPO and concurrent private placements along with proceeds from our follow-on public offerings and accompanying private placement primarily in Agency RMBS, including Mortgage pass-through certificates, Agency derivatives, Agency Interest-Only Strips, and Agency CMOs; Non-Agency RMBS; Agency CMBS, Non-Agency CMBS, Non U.S. CMBS, ABS as well as Residential and Commercial Whole-Loans. We have also used "to-be-announced" forward contracts, or TBAs, in order to invest in Agency RMBS. Pursuant to these TBAs, we agree to purchase (or deliver), for future settlement, Agency RMBS with certain principal and interest terms and certain underlying collateral. 

At December 31, 2015, our investment portfolio was comprised of approximately $1.7 billion of Agency RMBS (including approximately $117.3 million of Agency Interest-Only Strips), approximately $530.2 million of Non-Agency RMBS (including approximately $84.7 million of Non-Agency Interest-Only Strips), approximately $37.9 million of Agency CMBS (including approximately $13.2 million of Agency CMBS Interest-Only Strips), approximately $450.9 million of Non-Agency CMBS, approximately $101.1 million of other securities and approximately $218.5 million of Residential Whole-Loans. In addition, we acquired a $14.0 million controlling financial interest in a CMBS trust, which resulted in the consolidation of the assets and liabilities of the trust. As a result of the consolidation of the CMBS trust, our holdings included a $25.0 million securitized commercial loan. 

We generate income principally from the difference between the yields earned on our investments and our cost of borrowing and any hedging activity. We use leverage as part of our business strategy in order to increase potential returns to our stockholders. We primarily finance our investments through short-term borrowings structured as repurchase agreements. We may also change our financing strategy and leverage without the consent of our stockholders. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had entered into master repurchase agreements or MRAs with 26 counterparties. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $2.6 billion of borrowings outstanding under our repurchase agreements collateralized by approximately $3.0 billion of our investments. We have entered into approximately $3.2 billion of interest rate swaps to effectively fix the interest rate of our borrowings under our repurchase agreements; net of variable-rate payment interest rate swaps of approximately $2.3 billion, and excluding forward starting interest rate swaps of $710.0 million. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, we also owned swaptions on approximately an incremental $105.0 million notional of interest rate swaps. As of December 31, 2015, our aggregate debt-to-equity ratio was approximately 5.1 to 1. 

We operate and elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2012. To comply with the REIT requirements, some of our investments were held in a taxable REIT subsidiary or "TRS". By acquiring investments or engaging in activities through the TRS, it enables us to engage in such activities without jeopardizing our REIT status. These investments or activities are not held or conducted at the REIT level and as a result would not impact our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes on our taxable income to the extent that we annually distribute, in accordance with the REIT regulations, all of our net taxable income to stockholders and maintain our intended qualification as a REIT. 

We also intend to operate our business in a manner that will permit us to maintain our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act. 

Our Manager 

We are externally managed and advised by our Manager, an SEC-registered investment advisor and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Legg Mason, Inc., headquartered in Pasadena, California, that specializes in fixed-income asset management. From offices in Pasadena, Dubai, Hong Kong, London, Melbourne, New York, S&#227;o Paulo, Singapore and Tokyo, our Manager's 821 employees provide investment services for a wide variety of global clients, including mutual funds, corporate, public, insurance, health care, union organizations and charitable foundations. As of December 31, 2015, our Manager and its investment advisory affiliates over which our Manager has operational responsibility, or its supervised affiliates, had approximately $433.7 billion in assets under management. All of our officers are employees of our Manager, except for our interim chief financial officer who acts in such capacity under an agreement with us and her employer, FTI Consulting, Inc. In addition, two of our directors, James W. Hirschmann III and Gavin L. James, are also employees of our Manager. Our Manager is responsible for, among other duties: (i) performing all of our day-to-day functions; (ii) determining investment criteria in conjunction with our Board of Directors; (iii) sourcing, analyzing and executing investments, asset sales and financings; (iv) performing asset management duties; and (v) performing financial and accounting management. 

Our Investment Strategy 

Our Manager's investment philosophy, which developed from a singular focus in fixed-income asset management over a variety of credit cycles and conditions, is to provide clients with diversified, tightly controlled, long-term value-oriented portfolios. Through rigorous analysis of all sectors of the fixed-income market, our Manager seeks to identify assets with the greatest risk-adjusted total value potential. In making investment decisions on our behalf, our Manager incorporates its views on the economic environment and the outlook for the mortgage markets, including relative valuation, supply and demand trends, the level of interest rates, the shape of the yield curve, prepayment rates, financing and liquidity, commercial and residential real estate prices, delinquencies, default rates, recovery of various segments of the economy and vintage of collateral, subject to maintaining our REIT qualification and our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act. We benefit from the breadth and depth of our Manager's overall investment philosophy, which focuses on a macroeconomic analysis as well as an in-depth analysis of individual assets and their relative value. 

Our target assets are Agency RMBS (including to-be-announced securities or TBAs) and Non-Agency RMBS, Agency CMBS, Non-Agency CMBS, Non U.S. CMBS, ABS, Whole-Loans and Whole-Loan securities. Our goal for 2015 was, and looking forward to 2016, is to deploy an increasing portion of our capital to expand our purchase of Non-Agency RMBS, Non-Agency CMBS, Whole-Loans and Whole-Loan securities as well as Non U.S. CMBS and ABS. This expansion resulted in a shift towards a more diversified credit sensitive portfolio. We do not have specific investment guidelines providing for precise minimum or maximum allocations to any sector other than those necessary for maintaining our qualification as a REIT and our exemption from the 1940 Act. These regulatory limits may limit our ability to shift away from Agency securities and diversify the portfolio. Our Manager has not and does not expect to purchase securities on our behalf with a view to selling them shortly after purchase. However, in order to maximize returns and manage portfolio risk while remaining opportunistic, we may dispose of securities earlier than anticipated or hold securities longer than anticipated depending upon prevailing market conditions, credit performance, availability of leverage or other factors regarding a particular asset and/or our capital position. 

As of December 31, 2015, the fair value of our investment portfolio, excluding the securitized commercial loan from a consolidated VIE, was comprised of 56.4% of Agency RMBS, 17.3% of Non-Agency RMBS, 1.2% of Agency CMBS, 14.7% of Non-Agency CMBS, 3.3% of other securities and 7.1% of Residential Whole-Loans. 

Our Target Assets 

We have invested the proceeds of our IPO, concurrent private placements and follow-on public offerings and expect to continue to focus on investing in the following types of securities: 

Agency RMBS. &#151;Agency RMBS, which are RMBS for which the principal and interest payments are guaranteed by a U.S. Government agency, such as the Government National Mortgage Association ("GNMA" or "Ginnie Mae"), or a U.S. Government-sponsored entity, such as the Federal National Mortgage Association ("FNMA" or "Fannie Mae") or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("FHLMC" or "Freddie Mac"). The Agency RMBS we acquire can be secured by fixed-rate mortgages, adjustable-rate mortgages or hybrid adjustable-rate mortgages. Fixed-rate mortgages have interest rates that are fixed for the term of the loan and do not adjust. The interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgages generally adjust annually (although some may adjust more frequently) to an increment over a specified interest rate index. Hybrid adjustable-rate mortgages have interest rates that are fixed for a specified period of time (typically three, five, seven or ten years) and, thereafter, adjust to an increment over a specified interest rate index. Adjustable-rate mortgages and hybrid adjustable-rate mortgages generally have periodic and lifetime constraints on the amount by which the loan interest rate can change on any predetermined interest rate reset date. 

Mortgage pass-through certificates. &#151;Mortgage pass-through certificates are securities representing interests in "pools" of mortgage loans secured by residential real property where payments of both interest and scheduled principal, plus pre-paid principal, on the underlying loan pools are made monthly to holders of the securities, in effect "passing through" monthly payments made by the individual borrowers on the mortgage loans that underlie the securities, net of fees paid to the issuer/guarantor of the securities and servicers of the underlying mortgages. 

Interest-Only Strips or IOs. &#151;This type of security entitles the holder only to payments of interest based on a notional principal balance. The yield to maturity of Interest-Only Strips is extremely sensitive to the rate of principal payments (particularly prepayments) on the underlying pool of mortgages. We invest in these types of securities primarily to take advantage of particularly attractive prepayment-related or structural opportunities in the MBS markets, as well as to help manage the duration of our overall portfolio 

Inverse Interest-Only Strips or IIOs. &#151;This type of security has a coupon with an inverse relationship to its index and is subject to caps and floors. Inverse Interest-Only MBS entitles the holder to interest only payments based on a notional principal balance, which is typically equal to a fixed rate of interest on the notional principal balance less a floating rate of interest on the notional principal balance that adjusts according to an index subject to set minimum and maximum rates. The current yield of Inverse Interest-Only MBS will generally decrease when its related index rate increases and increase when its related index rate decreases. 

Principal-Only Strips or POs. &#151;This type of security generally only entitles the holder to receive cash flows that are derived from principal repayments of an underlying loan pool, but in the case of Non-Agency Principal-Only Strips will also include cash flows from default recoveries and excess interest. The yield to maturity of Principal-Only Strips is extremely sensitive to the rate of principal payments (particularly prepayments) on the underlying pool of mortgages. We invest in these types of securities primarily to take advantage of structural opportunities in the MBS markets. 

TBAs. &#151;We may utilize TBAs, in order to invest in Agency RMBS. Pursuant to these TBAs, we agree to purchase (or deliver), for future settlement, Agency RMBS with certain principal and interest terms and certain underlying collateral, but the particular Agency RMBS to be delivered is not identified until shortly before the TBA settlement date. Our ability to invest in Agency RMBS through TBAs may be limited by the 75% real estate income and asset tests applicable to REITs. 

Collateralized Mortgage Obligations or CMOs. &#151;These are securities that are structured from residential and/or commercial pass-through certificates, which receive monthly payments of principal and interest. CMOs divide the cash flows which come from the underlying mortgage pass-through certificates into different classes of securities that may have different maturities and different weighted average lives than the underlying pass-through certificates. 

Non-Agency RMBS. &#151;RMBS that are not guaranteed by a U.S. Government agency or U.S. Government-sponsored entity, with an emphasis on securities that when originally issued were rated in the highest rating category by one or more of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. The mortgage loan collateral for Non-Agency RMBS consists of residential mortgage loans that do not generally conform to underwriting guidelines issued by a U.S. Government agency or U.S. Government-sponsored entity due to certain factors, including mortgage balances in excess of Agency underwriting guidelines, borrower characteristics, loan characteristics and/or level of documentation, and therefore are not issued or guaranteed by a U.S. Government agency or U.S. Government-sponsored entity. The mortgage loan collateral may be classified as subprime, Alternative-A or prime depending on the borrower's credit rating and the underlying level of documentation. Non-Agency RMBS may be secured by fixed-rate mortgages, adjustable-rate mortgages or hybrid adjustable-rate mortgages. 

Agency CMBS. &#151;Fixed and floating rate CMBS, for which the principal and interest payments are guaranteed by a U.S. Government agency or U.S. Government-sponsored entity, but for which the underlying mortgage loans are secured by real property other than single family residences. These may include, but are not limited to Fannie Mae DUS (Delegated Underwriting and Servicing) MBS, Freddie Mac Multifamily Mortgage Participation Certificates, Ginnie Mae project loan pools, and/or CMOs structured from such collateral. 

Non-Agency CMBS. &#151;Fixed and floating rate CMBS for which the principal and interest payments are not guaranteed by a U.S. Government agency or U.S. Government-sponsored entity. We mainly acquire legacy securities that when originally issued were rated in the highest rating category by one or more of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations but we have also invested in subordinated debt for which the property (properties) securing the underlying mortgage collateral is located within the U. S. or the European Union. We do not have an established minimum current rating requirement for such investments. 

Non U.S. CMBS. &#151;CMBS which is not guaranteed by a U.S. Government agency or U.S. Government-sponsored entity and which is secured by commercial real estate located outside of the U.S. Although our Manager believes that these investments can provide attractive risk-reward opportunities and offer additional asset diversification, investing in international real estate has a number of additional risks, including but not limited to currency risk, political risk and the legal risk of investing in jurisdiction(s) with varying laws and regulations and potential tax implications. See Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk&#151;Foreign Investment Risk and Currency Risk herein. 

Agency and Non-Agency CMBS IO and IIO Securities. &#151;Interest-Only and Inverse Interest-Only securities for which the underlying collateral is commercial mortgages the principal and interest on which may or may not be guaranteed by a U.S Government agency or U.S. Government-sponsored entity. Unlike single family residential mortgages in which the borrower, generally, can prepay at any time, commercial mortgages frequently limit the ability of the borrower to prepay, thereby providing a certain level of prepayment protection. Common restrictions include yield maintenance and prepayment penalties, the proceeds of which are generally at least partially allocable to these securities, as well as, defeasance. 

Risk Sharing Securities Issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. &#151;From time to time we have and may in the future continue to invest in risk sharing securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Principal and interest payments on these securities are based on the performance of a specified pool of Agency residential mortgages. The payments due on these securities, however, are not secured by the referenced mortgages, but are full faith and credit obligations of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac respectively. Investments in these securities generally are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 75% real estate asset test applicable to REITs and generally do not generate qualifying income for purposes of the 75% real estate income test applicable to REITs. As a result, we may be limited in our ability to invest in such assets. 

ABS. &#151;Debt and/or equity tranches of securitizations backed by various asset classes including, but not limited to, aircrafts, automobiles, credit cards, equipment, franchises, recreational vehicles and student loans. Investments in ABS generally are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 75% real estate asset test applicable to REITs and generally do not generate qualifying income for purposes of the 75% real estate income test applicable to REITs. As a result, we may be limited in our ability to invest in such assets. 

Residential Whole-Loans. &#151;Residential Whole-Loans are mortgages secured by single family residences held directly by us or through structured Non Agency RMBS programs crafted specifically for us and other clients of our Manager. To date our Residential Whole-Loans have been mostly adjustable rate loans that do not qualify for the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau's (or CFPB) safe harbor provision for "qualifying mortgages". However, our Manager's review, relating to possible purchases of loans, includes an analysis of the loan originator's procedures and documentation for compliance with Ability to Repay requirements. These loans are held in consolidated trusts with the Company holding the beneficial interest in the trusts. The Company may in the future securitize the whole-loan interests, selling more senior interests in the pool of loans and retaining residual portions. The characteristics of the Company's Residential Whole-Loans may vary going forward. 

Commercial Whole-Loans. &#151;Our Manager is also actively exploring opportunities to invest in small balance, $2.5 million to $25.0 million, Commercial Whole-Loans, including commercial mortgages and Small Business Administration or SBA loans secured primarily by real estate. While our Manager has experience in CMBS and we currently invest in Agency and Non-Agency CMBS, as well as, Non U.S. CMBS, investing in Whole-Loans backed or secured by commercial real estate assets involves complex investment, structural, regulatory and accounting issues. Some of these issues are unique to Commercial Whole-Loans as opposed to residential mortgages. Accordingly, there is no assurance of the prevalence such investments will have in our overall portfolio in the future. 

Other investments. &#151;In addition to MBS, our principal investment, and ABS from time to time, we may also make other investments in securities, which our Manager believes will assist us in meeting our investment objective and are consistent with our overall investment policies. These investments will normally be limited by the REIT requirements that 75% our assets be real estate assets and that 75% of our income be generated from real estate, thereby limiting our ability to invest in such assets. 

Our Financing Strategy 

The leverage that we employ is specific to each asset class and is determined based on several factors, including potential asset price volatility, margin requirements, the current cycle for interest rates, the shape of the yield curve, the outlook for interest rates and our ability to use and the effectiveness of interest rate hedges. We analyze both historical volatility and market-driven implied volatility for each asset class in order to determine potential asset price volatility. Our leverage targets attempt to risk-adjust asset classes based on each asset class's potential price volatility. The goal of our leverage strategy is to ensure that, at all times, our investment portfolio's overall leverage ratio is appropriate for the level of risk inherent in the investment portfolio. 

We may fund the acquisition of our assets through the use of leverage from a number of financing sources, subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT. We finance our investments primarily through the use of repurchase agreements. 

Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income earned on our assets and our cost of borrowing and hedging activities. We use leverage to increase potential returns to our stockholders. We currently accomplish this by borrowing against existing investments through repurchase agreements. We may also change our financing strategy and leverage without the consent of our stockholders. 

The costs associated with our borrowings are generally based on prevailing market interest rates. During a period of rising interest rates, our borrowing costs generally will increase while the yields earned on our existing portfolio of leveraged fixed-rate MBS and other fixed rate securities will remain static. This could result in a decline in our net interest spread and net interest margin. The severity of any such decline would depend on our asset/liability composition at the time, as well as the magnitude and duration of the interest rate increase. Further, an increase in short-term interest rates could also have a negative impact on the market value of our assets. If either of these events happens, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. 

We primarily finance our investments through repurchase agreements for which we pledge our assets. Our pledged assets are currently comprised of Agency RMBS, Non-Agency RMBS, Agency CMBS, Non-Agency CMBS, other securities and Residential Whole-Loans. Our repurchase agreements have maturities generally ranging from one to three months, but in some cases longer. The amount borrowed under our repurchase agreements is a specified percentage of the asset's fair value, which is dependent on the collateral type. The portion of the pledged collateral held by the counterparty in excess of the amount borrowed under the repurchase agreement is the margin requirement for that borrowing. Repurchase agreements involve the transfer of the pledged collateral to a counterparty at an agreed upon price in exchange for such counterparty's simultaneous agreement to return the same security back to the borrower at a future date (i.e., the maturity of the borrowing). Under our repurchase agreements, we retain beneficial ownership of the pledged collateral, while the counterparty maintains custody of such collateral. At the maturity of a repurchase financing, unless the repurchase financing is renewed with the same counterparty, we are required to repay the loan, including any accrued interest, and concurrently reacquire custody of the pledged collateral or, with the consent of the counterparty, we may renew the repurchase financing at the then prevailing market interest rate and terms. Margin calls from counterparties are routinely experienced by us when the fair value of our existing pledged collateral declines as a result of principal amortization and prepayments or due to changes in market interest rates, spreads or other market conditions. As a result, the counterparty will require that we pledge additional securities and/or cash as collateral to secure our borrowings under repurchase financing. In certain circumstances, we also may make margin calls on our counterparties when collateral values increase. As of December 31 2015, we had $38.3 million of cash collateral held by our repurchase agreement counterparties and we have satisfied all of our margin calls. 

We expect to maintain a debt to equity ratio of three to ten times the amount of our stockholders' equity, although there is no stated minimum or maximum leverage in our investment policies. To the extent the Agency MBS percentage of our portfolio decreases, our overall leverage is likely to decrease. Depending on the different cost of borrowing funds at different maturities, we will vary the maturities of our borrowed funds to attempt to produce lower borrowing costs and reduce interest rate risk. Generally, we enter into collateralized borrowings only with institutions that are rated investment grade by at least one nationally-recognized statistical rating organization. We rely on financing to acquire, on a leveraged basis, assets in which we invest. If market conditions deteriorate, our counterparties may exit the repurchase market, and tighten lending standards, or increase the amount of equity capital required to obtain financing thereby making it more difficult and costly for us to obtain financing. In the future, we may be limited or restricted in the amount of leverage we may employ by the terms and provisions of any financing or other agreements. At December 31, 2015, we had an aggregate debt-to-equity ratio, related to our repurchase agreements of approximately 5.1 to 1. Our debt-to-equity ratio is computed by dividing the sum of repurchase borrowings by total stockholders' equity. 

Our Hedging Strategy 

Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income purposes, we pursue various economic hedging strategies in an effort to reduce our exposure to adverse changes in interest rates and, to a more limited extent, foreign currency. The U.S. federal income tax rules applicable to REITs may require us to implement certain of these techniques through a domestic TRS that is fully subject to federal, state and local corporate income taxation. 

Our hedging activity varies in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held, including currency denomination and other changing market conditions. The majority of swaps we entered into are designed to mitigate the effects of increases in interest rates under a portion of our repurchase agreements. These swaps generally provide for fixed interest rates indexed off of the London interbank offered rate or LIBOR and effectively fix the floating interest rates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order to manage our hedge position with regard to our liabilities, we on occasion will enter into interest rate swaps which involve the receipt of fixed-rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for us making variable-rate payments over the life of the interest rate swap without exchange of the underlying notional amount. We also enter into compression trades that enable us to terminate substantial amounts of swap contracts before they expire by their terms, when there has been substantial two-way (pay and receive) swap activity. These "compression trades" reduce the number of interest rate swaps outstanding. In addition to simplifying, our balance sheet, by reducing the number of interest rate swaps outstanding, we are frequently able to reduce the amount of margin required to carry such positions. 

We utilize forward starting swaps and swaptions for several reasons including replacing expiring swaps, in anticipation of increasing our overall financing and reducing our exposure to future interest rate increases. Interest rate swaptions provide us the option to enter into an interest rate swap agreement for a predetermined notional amount, stated term and set pay and receive interest rates in the future. 

We utilize foreign currency swaps, agreeing to pay a fixed amount of non U.S. currency such as the euro in exchange for a fixed amount of U.S. dollars as well as currency forwards. We entered into the currency swaps and forwards in order to hedge our exposure to foreign currency with respect to Non U.S. CMBS investments and the corresponding repurchase financings utilized to make such investments. 

In order to enable us to maintain compliance with the REIT requirements, we have generally elected to treat the aforementioned derivative instruments as hedges for U.S. federal tax purposes. To date, however, we have not elected to apply hedge accounting for financial statement reporting purposes for our derivative instruments. As a result, we record the change in fair value of our derivatives and the associated interest and currency exchange in earnings. Additionally, we may enter into hedging transactions in the form of puts and calls or other financial instruments that we deem appropriate. 

Our interest rate hedging techniques are partly based on assumed levels of prepayments of our target assets. If prepayments are slower or faster than assumed, the life of the investment will be longer or shorter, which would reduce the effectiveness of any of the interest rate hedging strategies we may use and may cause losses on such transactions. Hedging strategies, both interest rate and foreign currency, involve the use of derivative securities which are highly complex and may produce volatile returns. 

We may invest in equity index derivatives such as futures, options on futures and options on indices. These instruments are used normally to hedge interest rate movements as well as credit risks and other risks associated with our portfolio which may be impacted by volatility in the equity markets. Tax and other regulatory rules may limit our overall ability to use these instruments even through a TRS. Investing in these instruments introduces equity market risks into the management of the portfolio although as noted above our Manager uses them for the purpose of hedging our overall interest rate risk. These hedging strategies involving equity index products may not be successful, and may expose us to additional losses, if expected correlations between such risks and the equity markets do not occur. The goal of our hedging strategy is to ensure that, at all times, we are appropriately hedged in accordance with the REIT requirements for the level of interest rate and currency risk inherent in our investment portfolio. 

Risk Management Strategy 

Our overall portfolio strategy is designed to generate attractive returns to our investors through various economic cycles. We believe our broad approach to investing in the real estate market, which considers all categories of real estate assets, allows us to invest in a diversified portfolio and help mitigate our portfolio from risks that arise from investing in a single or limited collateral type. Our Manager's investment philosophy combines thorough research of investments and portfolio diversification to achieve investment returns. 

Regulation 

REIT Qualification 

We elected to be taxed as a REIT under Section 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2012. We will generally not be subject to corporate U.S. federal or state income tax to the extent that we make qualifying distributions to stockholders, and provided that we satisfy, on a continuing basis, through actual investment and operating results, the REIT requirements including certain asset, income, distribution and stock ownership tests. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, and do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we will be subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes and may be precluded from qualifying as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year in which we lost our REIT qualification. The failure to qualify as a REIT could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and amounts available for distribution to stockholders. 

Investment Company Act Exemption 

We conduct our operations so that we are not considered an investment company under the 1940 Act in reliance on the exemption provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act. Section 3(c)(5)(C), as interpreted by the staff of the SEC, requires that: (i) at least 55% of our investment portfolio consist of "mortgages and other liens on and interest in real estate," or "qualifying real estate interests," and (ii) at least 80% of our investment portfolio consist of qualifying real estate interests plus "real estate-related assets." We have relied, and intend to continue to rely on current interpretations of the staff of the SEC in an effort to continue to qualify for an exemption from registration under the 1940 Act. For more information on the exemptions that we utilize refer to Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Competition 

Our net income depends, in part, on our ability to acquire assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring our target assets, we compete with other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, financial institutions, governmental bodies and other entities. In addition, other REITs with similar asset acquisition objectives, including a number that have been recently formed and others that may be organized in the future, compete with us in acquiring assets and obtaining financing. These competitors may be significantly larger than us, may have access to greater capital and other resources or may have other advantages. In addition, some competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, and establish more relationships, than us. Current market conditions may attract more competitors, which may increase the competition for sources of financing. An increase in the competition for sources of funding could adversely affect the availability and cost of financing, and thereby adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 

Employees 

We are managed by our Manager, pursuant to the management agreement dated May 9, 2012. We have no employees. All of our officers and two of our directors, James W. Hirschmann III and Gavin L. James, are employees of our Manager, except for our interim chief financial officer, who acts in such capacity under an agreement with us and her employer, FTI Consulting, Inc. Our Manager is responsible for, among other duties: (i) performing all of our day-to-day functions; (ii) determining investment criteria in conjunction with our Board of Directors; (iii) sourcing, analysing and executing investments, asset sales and financings; (iv) performing asset management duties; and (v) performing financial and accounting management. 

Corporate Governance and Internet Address 

We emphasize the importance of professional business conduct and ethics through our corporate governance initiatives. In 2014 the Board took additional steps to enhance governance by appointing a lead independent director and adding a fourth independent director so that our Board of Directors consists of two-thirds ( 2 / 3 ) independent directors. The audit, nominating and corporate governance, and compensation committees of our Board of Directors are composed entirely of independent directors. We have adopted corporate governance guidelines and a code of business conduct and ethics, which delineate our standards for our officers and directors. 

Our internet address is www.westernassetmcc.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge through a link on our site, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such reports, if any, as filed or furnished with the SEC, as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing or furnishing. Our site also contains our code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines and the charters of our audit committee, nominating and corporate governance committee and compensation committee of our Board of Directors. Within the time period required by the rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, we will post on our website any amendment to our code of business conduct and ethics as defined in the code. Our documents filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available for review and copying by the public at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549 and at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

