 ITEM 1 &#150; BUSINESS 

Corporate History 

We were incorporated under the name Jam Run Acquisition Corporation on July 2, 2013 in the State of Delaware. From inception through early February 2014, we were a blank check company and qualified as an &#34;emerging growth company&#34; as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act which became law in April, 2012, with a business plan of entering into a transaction with a foreign or domestic private company in order for that company to become a reporting company as part of the process toward the public trading of its stock.

On February 6, 2014, we issued 9,700,000 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 97% of our then-outstanding shares to Laurence Wainer for $1,970. In connection with this transaction, we changed our name Blow &#38; Drive Interlock Corporation and Mr. Wainer became our sole officer and director. 

Our offices are located at 1080 La Cienega Boulevard, Suite 304, Los Angeles, California, 90035, telephone number (877) 238-4492.

Business Overview 

General 

We manufacture, market, lease, install and monitor a Breath Alcohol Ignition Interlock Device (BAIID) we developed known as the BDI-747 Ignition Interlock Device (the &#147;BDI-747/1&#148;), which is a mechanism that is installed on the steering column of an automobile and into which a driver exhales prior to starting their vehicle. The device in turn provides a blood-alcohol concentration analysis. If the driver&#146;s blood-alcohol content is higher than a certain pre-programmed limit, the device prevents the ignition from engaging and the automobile from starting. These devices are often required for use by DUI or DWI (&#147;driving under the influence&#148; or &#147;driving while intoxicated&#148;) offenders as part of a mandatory court or motor vehicle department program. The BDI-747/1 has met the 2013 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) guidelines for Breath Alcohol Ignition Interlock Devices [Federal Register Volume 78, Number 89] as an authorized BAIID [Element Materials Technology/Report # ESP018444P June 17, 2015]. The BDI-747/1 is manufactured by BDI Manufacturing Inc., a subsidiary of Blow &#38; Drive Interlock Inc. 

The primary market for the BDI-747/1 Ignition Interlock Device is as a breathalyzer device to be used by persons convicted of a driving under the influence of alcohol. In order for the BDI-747/1 to be used in states for persons convicted of driving under the influence the device must be approved by each individual state. The process to get the device approved varies greatly state-to-state. As of December 31, 2015, the BDI-747/1 was approved for use in eight states, namely California, Colorado, Oregon, Texas, Arizona, Kentucky, Oklahoma and Tennessee. Our plan for 2016 is gain approval in an additional 8-12 states.

In states where the BDI-747/1 is approved as a BAIID, we lease the BDI-747/1 devices to offenders, typically for twelve months, but the time could differ on a case-by-case basis depending on the sentence received by the offender. In some states we market, lease, install and support the devices directly and in other states we sell distributorships to authorized distributors allowing them to lease, install, service, remove and support the BDI-747/1 devices. Currently, we lease the devices directly in four states state &#150; California, Kentucky, Oregon and Tennessee - and license the device to distributors in three different areas &#150; two counties in Texas and in the state of Arizona. 

In states where we lease the devices directly to consumers, we currently charge $198 in upfront fees for the user (which covers two months of the lease payment), and then $99/month for the other ten months of the lease for the typical one year lease. The lease payment covers the installation of the device in the consumer&#146;s vehicle, the rental of the device, recalibration of the device as required by each state (typically every 30 to 60 days) and the monitoring services for the device, which are then reported to the state in accordance with each state&#146;s requirements. In states and areas where we do not have a direct presence, which we only have in Los Angeles, California, we contract with independent service centers, such as car alarm installation companies or other auto services companies, to perform the installations of our BDI-747/1 device, which centers must be approved by the states in which the perform the installations. Because our devices are installed in consumers&#146; vehicles are part of a judicially-mandated program, and since the use of the device controls the individual&#146;s driving privileges, collection rates of the monthly leasing fees is close to 100%. The failure to make the payment could be a violation of the consumer&#146;s sentence or probation and could cause them to lose the device and their driving privileges.

In areas where we have a distributor, in our typical distributorship arrangement, we charge the distributor a flat fee distributorship territory fee up front (which fee varies based on the size and location of the distributorship), a $150 per unit registration fee, and then a $35 monthly fee for each device the distributor has in its inventory. These fees may vary on a case-by-case basis. The relationship with our distributors may either be on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis depending upon the location of the distributorship and the fees charged.

Currently, between the devices we lease directly and those devices leased through our distributors, we have approximately 225 units on the road. We plan to increase our marketing of the device, and more aggressively pursue sales and distributors once we have funds to manufacture additional units. 

Our website is www.blowanddrive.com. 

Principal Products and Services 

Our only product is the BDI-747/1 Breath Alcohol Ignition Interlock Device. The BDI-747/1 device is used to detect alcohol in a person&#146;s system by measuring the level of alcohol in a person&#146;s breath by having them blow into the device and determining whether that level is over or under a preset level set by the installer or a trained technician. The pre-determined level differs by state, but is typically around .02. The device is approximately the size of a smartphone which is installed directly onto a vehicle&#146;s steering column. The device requires the driver to exhale into the device prior to starting the vehicle. The device will prevent the vehicle from starting if the driver&#146;s blood-alcohol content exceeds the predetermined set level.

&#160;

(photo of BDI-747/1) 

Our device, designed by Well Electric, incorporates the latest technology and design in the market for such devices. The device has both GPS and video capabilities. The device has a fuel cell sensor and a color display screen. The external camera mounting can wrap around the automobile&#146;s rear view mirror. The device is powered by either an internal battery or a power cable from a control box which supports both 24V and 12V batteries. The device has both USB communication capabilities and WiFi (with approval from service provider).

&#160;

The specifications for our ignition interlock device are as follows:

&#160;

Sample head

&#160;

Sensor

Fuel cell

Working Temperature

-40&#730;C to 85&#730;C

Display Screen

Color screen

Memory and Save

80,000 events with pictures save and download form sample head

Communication

USB, WiFi, 3G(user need to get US approval with service provider)

Communication with control box

Wireless

Power supply

Internal battery or power cable from control box

Human checking

Flow sensing, air temperature sensing

&#160;

&#160;

External

&#160;

Camera

External camera mounting around the review mirror

Night photo

White LED, and IR light

Control box

Support 24V and 12V

Motor Start Checking

Ignition checking, power checking, moving checking

PC software

One client side software, which able to set sample and input user information. 

Picture and events may also be downloaded. This is not web or server side software

&#160;

The BDI-747/1 unit takes about 30-45 minutes to install in a vehicle, depending on the vehicle. The ignition interlock component is installed on the steering column. Currently, our cost to order the requisite supplies and assemble the BDI-747/1 units is approximately $350-$500 per unit depending on the specifications of the unit. The device requires recalibration in accordance with state requirements, typically every 30 to 60 days. &#160; 

Marketing 

To date, most of our marketing has consisted of getting approval for our BDI-747/1 device in as many states as possible. By gaining approval in a state our BDI-747/1 device appears on that state&#146;s list of approved breathalyzer ignition interlock devices. Someone convicted of driving under the influence that must use a breathalyzer ignition interlock device must choose one from the list of state-approved devices. As a result, by gaining approvals in states, our device is automatically disseminated to our targeted consumers by the state. In addition to trying to obtain approvals in as many states as we can, our other marketing efforts related to our BDI-747/1 device have largely consisted of speaking with various individuals and companies that are in the breathalyzer ignition interlock device industry, such as companies in the business of conducting educational courses for individuals convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol, companies in the business of installing ignition interlock devices, and individuals involved in the approval process for breathalyzer ignition interlock devices.

In addition to marketing our BDI-747/1 device directly to consumers, we have also marketed our distributorship opportunities to various individuals and companies that are in the breathalyzer ignition interlock device industry. In the past, the efforts have included radio and television advertisements of our distributorship program. Although we are not currently running any radio or television advertisements for our distributorship program, we may do so again in the future. We have also discussed these opportunities with various companies and individuals in the industry, similar to what we have done with our marketing of our BDI-747/1 device.

In the future, we may also attempt to market the BDI-747/1 device to the voluntary commercial vehicle market, such as trucking companies, taxi cab companies, limousine companies, and bus companies. We believe our device would be valuable to these industries since they have direct financial and non-financial interests in ensuring the drivers of these vehicles are not under the influence of alcohol when they get behind the wheel. We also believe our device would be of interest to parents of vehicles operated by a minor child or by a family member with a past alcohol issue. Currently, we are not marketing the BDI-747/1 device to these industries but we may in the future.

Manufacturing 

We are the primary manufacturer of our BDI-747/1 device, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, BDI Manufacturing, Inc., an Arizona corporation. However, we do utilize a supply and assembly company called C4 Development Ltd., a Hong Kong corporation (&#147;C4 Development&#148;). On June 29, 2015, we entered into a Supply Agreement with C4 Development, under which C4 Development supplies us with a part known as the &#147;PCB with Alcohol Tester.&#148; This device has certain parts utilized in our BDI-747/1 device, but the PCB with Alcohol Tester is not a device, by itself, that is capable of obtaining approval from the NHTSA as a breath alcohol interlock device. Once we obtain these parts for a device from C4 Development, we add the additional components to the devices at our facility in Los Angeles, California in order to create our BDI-747/1 device.

Competition 

The business of breathalyzer ignition interlock device industry is competitive, and from time-to-time new companies may appear on the list of approved providers in various states, however, there is a high barrier to entry due to the cost of development fees, manufacturing fees, NHSTA-approved testing, and state field testing. We compete with a number of successful companies in the industry, including, but not limited to, LifeSafer&#174;, Smart Start&#174;, Intoxalock&#174;, Guardian Interlock Systems and Dr&#228;ger. These larger companies have greater financial resources than we do, have approval in most (if not all) states, and likely have 50,000 of their respective ignition interlock devices on the road each. By comparison we currently have approval in eight states and have approximately 225 units on the road. Although we believe our BDI-747/1 device compares favorably to the interlock devices provided by our competitors, we will need to raise significant capital and gain approval in most states in order capitalize on our BDI-747/1 device. We believe if we do this we will be able to compete better with these larger competitors. 

Due to the state approvals necessary to service the judicially-mandated breath analyzer ignition interlock market we believe there is a barrier to entry that will discourage too many other companies from entering the industry. Not only must a new entrant develop and manufacture a breathalyzer device, it must meet the NHTSA requirements, and then get approved by state regulators, all of which can be costly. The complexities and costs of meeting all these steps should keep new entrants into the industry to a minimum. 

Intellectual Property 

We currently have a utility patent pending for our BDI Model #1 power line filter, which is used with our BDI-747 Breath Alcohol Ignition Interlock Device to prevent interference from electromagnetic waves. Although we do not have any other formal intellectual property protection over our BDI-747/1 device (such as device patents or trademarks), we do have general intellectual property protections provided by federal and state laws that prohibit unfair business practices, etc.

Government Regulation 

Ignition interlock devices must be certified by the states in which a company intends to market and lease the devices. Before applying for certification to any state, the devices are sent to an independent laboratory for testing and certification that the device meets or exceeds the guidelines published by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as the Model Specifications for Breath Alcohol Ignition Interlock Devices. Each state has its own set of certification guidelines that must be met. Typically the requirements for state certification are met once the device is certified by an independent laboratory as meeting or exceeding the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration&#146;s published guidelines.

&#160;

Our BDI-747/1 device was certified by an independent testing laboratory in June 2015 and we are currently approved in eight states as an authorized breath interlock device: California, Colorado, Oregon, Texas, Arizona, Kentucky, Oklahoma and Tennessee.

In addition to approval of our ignition interlock device, we applied to the State of California Bureau of Automotive Repair (BAR) and successfully received a BAR license in August 2015 in order to install and remove the devices. The process for such approval requires submitting an application to the Department of Consumer Affairs and payment of a $200 application fee. A representative from that department visited our facility on January 11, 2016 to ensure that there is the necessary space for the auto repair work intended to be performed. It does not certify or otherwise approve workmanship. The only auto repair work to be performed by us will be to install and remove the devices. Such work does not involve more than attaching the device to the steering column..

Employees 

As of March 31, 2016 we three full-time employees, who primarily install, calibrate, remove and monitor our BDI-747/1 devices. Our sole executive officer and director, Mr. Laurence Wainer, is an independent contractor. Our installers and technicians are independent contractors. 

Available Information 

We are a fully reporting issuer, subject to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our Quarterly Reports, Annual Reports, and other filings can be obtained from the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. You may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Commission at http://www.sec.gov . 

