 ITEM 1. Business 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For a discussion of forward-looking statements, see the section captioned "Forward-Looking Statements" in Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Reverse Stock Split 

On January 30, 2015, we effected a reverse stock split of our common stock at a ratio of one share-for-every three shares of the outstanding common stock. The change in the number of shares resulting from the reverse stock split has been applied retroactively to all shares and per share amounts presented in this report, including the financial statements and accompanying notes included herein. 

Overview 

STR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("we", "us", "our" or the "Company") commenced operations in 1944 as a plastics and industrial materials research and development company. Based upon our expertise in polymer science, we evolved into a global provider of encapsulants to the solar industry. Encapsulant is a critical component used to protect solar cells and hold solar modules together. 

We were the first to develop ethylene-vinyl acetate ("EVA") based encapsulants for use in commercial solar module manufacturing. Our initial development effort was conducted while under contract to the predecessor of the U.S. Department of Energy in the 1970s. Since that time, we have expanded our solar encapsulant business, by investing in research and development and global production capacity. 

In September 2011, we sold our Quality Assurance ("QA") business, which provided consumer product development, inspection, testing and audit services that enabled our retail and manufacturing clients to determine whether products met applicable safety, regulatory, quality, performance and social standards, to Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. ("UL") for $275.0 million in cash, plus assumed cash. The historical results of operations of our former QA business have been recast and presented as discontinued operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further information about our divestiture of the QA business is included in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 4, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our net sales and profitability have declined significantly since 2010. We attribute these declines primarily to a rapid shift of solar module production from the United States and Europe to Asia, particularly China, the loss of our largest customer in 2013, financial distress of certain of our key customers, intensified competition and steep price declines resulting from excess capacity that previously existed throughout the solar manufacturing industry. 

For several years, we have been working to increase our market share in China through investments in people, research and development and facilities, including: 

&#149; increasing our Chinese sales and technical service teams to develop customer relationships at the tactical level and provide customer service in the local language, custom and time zone; 2 

&#149; investing in research and development to broaden the process window of our encapsulant products for use in Chinese module production processes, which differ from those found in the western markets we have historically supplied; and &#149; investing in or otherwise contracting local manufacturing capacity in China to shorten the order fulfillment cycle and to comply with customer demand for domestic production. On January 13, 2014, our indirect subsidiary, STR Solar (Hong Kong), Limited, entered into a Contract Manufacturing Agreement (the "Manufacturing Agreement") with ZheJiang FeiYu Photo-Electrical Science &#38; Technology Co., Ltd. ("FeiYu") and Zhejiang Xiesheng Group Co., Ltd., the parent corporation of FeiYu ("Xiesheng," and together with FeiYu, the "Manufacturer"), under which FeiYu agreed to manufacture certain of our encapsulant products to our specification. FeiYu currently has approximately 1.1 gigawatts ("GW") of annual active manufacturing capacity. In addition, we have built out our own leased 57,500 square foot manufacturing facility in Shajiabang, Changshu Jiangsu Province, China. This facility became operational in the fourth quarter of 2014 and currently has 1.0 GW of production capacity. 

We continue to operate at a substantial net loss. Accordingly, we believe that we must continue to increase net sales to cover our current and anticipated operating expenses, and to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We incurred net losses from continuing operations of approximately $13.4 million and $22.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Transaction with Zhenfa 

In 2014, we entered into a purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") and certain other definitive agreements with Zhenfa Energy Group Co., Ltd., a Chinese limited liability company ("Zhenfa") and its affiliate, Zhen Fa New Energy (U.S.) Co., Ltd., a Nevada corporation (the "Zhenfa U.S."). 

Sale of Common Stock and Special Dividend 

Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, on December 15, 2014 (the "Closing Date"), we completed the sale of an aggregate of approximately 9.2 million shares (the "Purchased Shares") of our common stock to Zhenfa U.S. for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $21.7 million, or $2.35 per share (the "Transaction"). The Purchased Shares represented approximately 51% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of the Closing Date. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, two members of the Board of Directors resigned, effective as of the Closing Date, and the Board of Directors was expanded from five to seven members. Four new directors, all nominated by Zhenfa U.S., were appointed to the Board of Directors effective upon the closing of the Transaction, constituting a majority of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors also formed a Special Committee of Continuing Directors comprised of John A. Janitz and Andrew M. Leitch, both of whom were independent members of our Board of Directors prior to the sale of the Purchased Shares. The Special Committee of Continuing Directors has the power and authority to, among other things, (i) represent us in enforcing all matters under the Purchase Agreement and (ii) review and approve certain related-party transactions with Zhenfa U.S. and its affiliates. 

Upon the closing of the Transaction, we entered into a registration rights agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") with Zhenfa U.S. that will, among other things, require us to register, at our expense, the Purchased Shares upon the request of Zhenfa U.S. or certain transferees of Zhenfa U.S. 

Further, in connection with the closing of the Transaction, we declared a special dividend (the "Special Dividend") on December 11, 2014, that was subsequently paid on January 2, 2015 to all of our 

stockholders of record (other than Zhenfa U.S.), as of December 26, 2014, in an aggregate amount of approximately $22.6 million, or $2.55 per share of common stock. 

Sales Service Agreement 

In connection with the execution of the Purchase Agreement, Specialized Technology Resources, Inc., one of our operating subsidiaries, entered into a sales service agreement (the "Sales Service Agreement") with Zhenfa, whereby Zhenfa agreed, among other things, to assist us in a number of endeavors, including, without limitation, marketing and selling our products in China, acquiring local raw materials, hiring and training personnel in China and complying with Chinese law. Pursuant to the Sales Service Agreement, Zhenfa has also provided us with an option to lease a manufacturing facility owned by Zhenfa rent free for a period of at least five years. The Sales Service Agreement further provides that if we lease the facility, Zhenfa will provide us with an option to extend the lease at 50% of market rent (as to be determined) for a second five year term. We do not anticipate exercising our option to lease this additional manufacturing facility unless and until we determine we are able to achieve net sales to support the operation of this additional facility. In connection therewith we are also discussing with Zhenfa the opportunity to use alternative manufacturing sites owned or used by Zhenfa or its affiliates, to those contemplated in the Sales Service Agreement. The Sales Service Agreement became effective on December 15, 2014, has an initial term of two years and is automatically extended for one-year periods unless terminated earlier by either party. 

Zhenfa and its affiliates (collectively, the "Zhenfa Group") is a leading solar systems integrator, engineering, procurement, and construction company and solar power station owner-operator within China. We entered into the Transaction with Zhenfa primarily for the following strategic considerations: 

&#149; China has become the world's largest solar module manufacturing market. We have historically struggled to effectively penetrate that market in order to compete effectively. The Zhenfa Group is owned and headquartered in China and represents a significant customer of many Chinese solar module manufacturers; &#149; to enhance our presence in China and improve our operating results to the extent that the Zhenfa Group is successful in assisting us in marketing and selling our products to Chinese solar module manufacturers; &#149; the Sales Service Agreement contemplates that the Zhenfa Group will provide us the opportunity to lease on favorable terms a manufacturing facility in China, and provide other valuable assistance in doing business in China; and &#149; given our complementary businesses and geographic locations, additional opportunities may be available to expand our mutual cooperation throughout the solar value chain. Our transactions with Zhenfa, in addition to providing a substantial cash dividend for our stockholders, provided us with a strategic alliance in China to assist us in the highly competitive Chinese solar encapsulant manufacturing market. 

2015 Execution with Zhenfa and Assessment of Strategic Alternatives 

Although our consolidated net sales have decreased, our net sales in China have increased by 63% in 2015 compared to 2014. We attribute this increase to our ongoing efforts to increase our share of the Chinese market, as well as the assistance provided to us by Zhenfa. Notwithstanding these increases, we have not yet been able to achieve the necessary sales volume to reach break-even EBITDA, as market penetration in China continues to be a difficult process and intense competition, including pricing pressure, persists. 

Encapsulant Business Restructuring 

During 2015, our Spanish facility generated incremental Adjusted EBITDA. We intend to continue to seek incremental improvement to our Chinese operations, with the understanding that the business environment in China continues to be challenging, even with Zhenfa's assistance. 

In July 2015, following a recent decision by our largest customer to exit its OEM module production in Malaysia, we decided to cease production at our Malaysian facility effective August 2, 2015. We continued to fulfill orders to this customer from our Spain and China facilities. Other factors contributing to the decision to close the facility included underutilization, increasing costs in Malaysia resulting from the recent introduction of a Goods &#38; Services Tax, and the investigation by the European Commission that may result in anti-dumping and countervailing duties on solar cells and modules consigned from China and assembled in Malaysia and Taiwan. We have been seeking to sell the Malaysia facility and have sold certain of its production and ancillary equipment. Earlier in 2015, the Malaysia real estate had been appraised at approximately $8.0 million. In connection with the shut-down and sale of the Malaysia facility, we incurred approximately $1.3 million of associated non-recurring costs during the second half of 2015. We cannot assure that we will be able to sell our Malaysian real estate on a timely basis or on favorable terms, if at all, that the costs of closure of that facility will not be higher than anticipated, or that we will be able to achieve the expected savings. Should market conditions warrant, and provided we have not yet sold the associated PP&#38;E, we may consider restarting the facility, among other options, to provide us with additional capacity. Returning the facility to operational condition would entail replacing some ancillary equipment sold at auction and rebuilding the manufacturing team, the costs for which have been neither calculated nor analyzed. 

Assessment of Entry into Downstream Solar 

Over the past several years, we believe that profits in the solar supply chain have shifted from upstream manufacturers to downstream service providers and solar project owners. With Zhenfa's assistance under our Sales Service Agreement, we have assessed multiple downstream projects, but have no current actionable investment opportunities. We expect to continue to evaluate potential opportunities to participate in the downstream market as they arise, which may include construction financing of solar projects, acquisition and ownership of operating solar projects and developing solar projects. 

Change in Securities Market for Common Stock 

On September 29, 2015, we were notified by the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") that we were not in compliance with the continued listing standards set forth in Section 802.01B of the NYSE Listed Company Manual due to our failure to maintain an average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period of at least $15.0 million. Our common stock began trading on the OTC Pink Marketplace beginning on September 30, 2015 under the ticker symbol "STRI." Following our upgrade application to the OTC Marketplace, our common stock began trading on the OTCQX Marketplace under the symbol "STRI", effective October 5, 2015. 

Solar Energy Market Overview 

Solar energy has emerged as one of the most rapidly growing sources of renewable energy. A number of different technologies have been developed to harness solar energy. The most prevalent technology comprises interconnected photovoltaic ("PV") cells to generate electricity directly from sunlight. Solar energy has many advantages over other renewable and non-renewable electricity sources relative to environmental impact, delivery risk, distributed generation, matching of peak generation with demand, and low maintenance and installation cost at competitive prices in many global markets. 

PV systems have been used to produce electricity for several decades. However, technological advances and production efficiencies combined with the rising costs of conventional/carbon-based electricity and the availability of government subsidies and incentives, have led to solar becoming one of the fastest growing renewable energy technologies. 

Government incentive programs, which make solar energy more price competitive with other energy sources, are among the key demand drivers for PV. Historically, the largest growth in the demand for PV was in the European Union, driven by its goal of generating 20% of its electricity from renewable sources by 2020. However, Europe's share of global demand has recently declined and is expected to continue to decline as many European Union countries, such as Germany and Italy, continue to reduce their subsidy programs in light of financing constraints, overall fiscal policy, and saturation due to cumulative installed capacity. The reduction in subsidies and increased competition in the solar industry have driven a reduction in selling prices throughout the supply chain that is expected to yield future unit volume growth in new end markets as grid- parity is achieved and a price-elastic model continues to develop. We anticipate continued growth in installations of PV modules in the United States, China, India, South America, Africa and the Middle East. 

Despite our expectations for favorable conditions for the adoption of solar electricity generation, solar energy continues to represent only a small fraction of the world's electricity supply. 

Solar Energy Systems 

Solar electricity is primarily generated by PV systems comprised of solar modules, mounting structures and electrical components. PV systems are either grid-connected or off-grid. Grid-connected systems are tied to the transmission and distribution grid and feed electricity into the end-user's electrical system and/or the grid. Such systems are commonly mounted on the rooftops of buildings, integrated into building facades or installed on the ground using support structures, and range in size from a small number of kilowatts to hundreds of megawatts. Off-grid PV systems are typically much smaller and are frequently used in remote areas where they may be the only source of electricity for the end-user. 

Solar Modules 

PV cells are semiconductor devices that convert sunlight directly to electricity by a process known as the photovoltaic effect. A solar module is an assembly of PV cells that are electrically interconnected, laminated and framed in a durable and weatherproof package. 

There are two primary commercialized categories of solar cells: crystalline silicon and thin-film. PV devices can be manufactured using different semiconductor materials, including mono-and poly-crystalline silicon for silicon cells, and amorphous silicon, gallium arsenide, copper indium gallium selenide and cadmium telluride, among others, for thin-film cells. Crystalline silicon cells typically operate at higher conversion efficiency. Historically, crystalline silicon cells have been higher in cost due to a more complex production process and the need for more expensive raw materials. In recent years, the price of polysilicon has declined rapidly, eroding the cost advantage of thin-film cells, while the gap in conversion efficiency narrows due to more rapid improvements in the thin-film sector. 

During the last five years, the production of solar modules has migrated rapidly from the U.S. and Europe to Asia, primarily China. 

Encapsulants 

Regardless of the technology used to create solar energy from a PV system, the core component of the solar cell is the semiconductor circuit. To protect and preserve that circuit, solar module manufacturers typically use an encapsulant. Encapsulants are critical to the proper functioning of solar 

modules, as they protect cells from the elements, bond the multiple layers of a module together and provide electrical isolation. Encapsulants must incorporate high optical transparency, stability at high temperatures and high levels of ultraviolet radiation, good adhesion to different module materials, adequate mechanical compliance to accommodate stresses induced by differences in thermal expansion and contraction between glass and cells, good dielectric properties (electrical isolation) and resistance to potential induced degradation. Even slight deterioration of any of these properties over time could significantly impair the electrical output of the solar module, which is of critical importance in the solar industry, where solar module manufacturers typically provide 20 to 25-year warranties for their products. 

Over the years, various encapsulant materials have been used in solar modules, including EVA, polyvinyl butyral ("PVB"), polyolefin elastomer ("POE") and poly dimethyl siloxane or silicone. We currently use EVA to make substantially all of our encapsulant products, although we are currently commercializing a range of POE encapsulants. Our encapsulants are modified with additives to increase stability for long-term outdoor applications, such as solar modules. We have also begun selling EVA interlayer to the laminated glass market to further expand our product offering. 

During solar module assembly, encapsulation is typically accomplished by vacuum lamination, wherein a "pre-lam" stack (as depicted in the following diagram) is fashioned into a singular part comprising multiple layers. Thin sheets of EVA are positioned on either side of the PV cells, top and bottom. Heating the "sandwich" then causes the EVA to melt and then to cure, or crosslink, bonding the module into one piece. This step occurs towards the end of the manufacturing process and is critical to the entire solar module, as there is only one opportunity to laminate correctly. 

Solar Module Component Stack&#151;Crystalline Silicon 

Excessive shrinkage or inadequate adhesion (associated with improperly formulated encapsulants) can occur during lamination and may result in voids or holes in the encapsulant, which are considered defects and cause for rejection of the entire panel. Upon direct exposure to the elements, encapsulants are susceptible to several performance failures, which may jeopardize the integrity and performance of the entire solar module and lead to significant warranty costs for solar module manufacturers. The most significant failures include: 

&#149; Loss of clarity&#151;the propensity of an encapsulant to "brown" after long-term exposure to ultraviolet ("UV") light, leading to a permanent loss of transparency. If an encapsulant positioned above the cells loses its transparency, the power output of the module will be reduced. &#149; Module delamination&#151;the loss of adhesion between the encapsulant and other module layers. Delamination in the field could occur in cases where the encapsulant was improperly cured or where incompatibilities between the encapsulant and other module components exist. Most delamination observed in the field has occurred at the interface between the encapsulant and the front surface of the solar cells. Delamination is more frequent and more severe in hot and humid climates, sometimes occurring after less than five years of exposure. Delamination first causes a performance loss due to optical de-coupling of the encapsulant from the cells. Of greater concern from a module lifetime perspective is the likelihood that the void resulting from 7 

the delamination will provide a preferential location for moisture accumulation, greatly increasing the possibility of corrosion failures in metallic contacts and resulting in module failure. 

&#149; Potential Induced Degradation ("PID")&#151;the loss of electrical output caused by sodium ion migration from the cover glass, through the encapsulant to the cell, is a factor that could adversely impact the energy yield of crystalline silicon solar modules. PID can occur in some solar module installations where a transformerless inverter is used in combination with a high negative voltage bias applied to the solar cells. The magnitude of the power loss depends upon many factors, including the applied voltage bias and the type of surface coatings on the solar cells. Specific encapsulant chemistry, such as in our recent product introductions, has been demonstrated to help inhibit power loss due to PID. Despite the critical nature of encapsulant to solar cell applications, the encapsulant represents a small percentage of the total manufacturing cost of the solar module. 

We typically sell our encapsulants in square meters. However, because the solar industry's standard measurement for production volume and capacity is watts, megawatts ("MW"), or gigawatts ("GW"), we convert our capacity and production volume from square meters to approximate MW depending on the applicable conversion efficiencies specific to our customers. The conversion rate is approximately 13,000 square meters of encapsulant per MW. This rate is based on our calculations using publicly available information, our industry experience and assumptions that our management believes to be appropriate and reasonable. Certain production capacity and market metrics included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on these calculations. Our calculations may not be accurate, and we may change the methodology of our calculations in the future as new information becomes available. In that case, period-to-period comparisons of such metrics may not be perfectly comparable. 

Financial Information About Our Segment and Geographic Areas 

Financial information about our segment and geographical areas of operation is included in Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 19-Reportable Segment and Geographical Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our Products 

Drawing upon our considerable experience, we develop our formulations internally and work in conjunction with our customers to meet their varying requirements. Our encapsulant formulations offer a range of properties and processing attributes, including various curing times and temperatures that align with the requirements of our customers' individual lamination processes and module constructions. Our formulations can be used in both crystalline silicon and thin-film modules. 

Our Markets and Customers 

Our customers are solar module manufacturers located primarily in North America, Europe and Asia. We typically sell our encapsulants on a purchase order basis that specifies prices and delivery parameters, but can be cancelled or postponed prior to production. We also provide technical support and assist our customers when they are qualifying solar modules that utilize our products, which can take from two months to more than two years. Historically, our sales strategy has focused on developing long-term relationships with solar module manufacturers and working collaboratively during their product development efforts. We use independent sales agents as a part of our growth strategy, primarily in China and India. 

Over the past several years, many of our western customers continued to lose market share to lower-cost Chinese module manufacturers, with many being forced into bankruptcy or exiting the solar business as module production migrated rapidly to Asia, primarily China. We have been actively trying to enhance our presence and improve our competitiveness in China. 

ReneSola Ltd., and its subsidiaries ("ReneSola"), and Global Wedge, Inc., each accounted for at least 10% of our net sales, and in the aggregate accounted for approximately 28% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2015. In 2014, ReneSola accounted for approximately 37% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2014, while no other customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 49% and 64% of our net sales in 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Our Operations 

Facilities and Equipment 

We currently operate production facilities in Llanera, Asturias, Spain and Shajiabang, Changshu, Jiangsu Province, China. These production facilities are augmented by our research, development and testing laboratory in Enfield, Connecticut, which is co-located with our corporate headquarters and our pilot production facility. 

We also own a dormant production facility in Johor, Malaysia, which we have had on the market for sale since the third quarter of 2015. Should we fail to receive an acceptable offer for this property and if market conditions warrant we may consider restarting production in this facility among other options. 

In March 2013, we ceased manufacturing operations at our East Windsor, Connecticut location and sold this facility in October 2014. We currently have total annual production capacity of approximately 5.1 GW, with 3.0 GW at our Spain location and 1.0 GW at our China facility. In addition, our Manufacturing Agreement with FeiYu provides us with approximately 1.1 GW of additional annual manufacturing capacity in China. 

We are also contemplating returning one of our pilot production lines based in Connecticut to full production status in order to help launch our new POE encapsulants in North America. This production line is capable of manufacturing approximately 450MW of POE on an annual basis. The decision to produce POE in Connecticut on a production scale will be based on demand resulting from our current efforts to launch this new product line in North America and globally. 

Our production lines incorporate our proprietary technology and processes. We rely on third-party equipment manufacturers to produce our manufacturing lines to our specifications, which we then further customize in-house. Most of our production lines are functionally equivalent, having the ability to manufacture all of our formulations and providing us with flexibility in meeting shifting trends in global demand. 

Encapsulant Production Process 

Our production process typically begins by mixing EVA pellets with several additives to give the encapsulant its desired properties. The mixture is then melted, homogenized, pressurized and forced through a die to create an "EVA curtain", forming a continuous encapsulant sheet. The sheet then progresses downstream in a proprietary process and ultimately wound into rolls, slit to the desired width, and packaged for shipment to customers. 

Our manufacturing quality program is ISO 9001 certified. We have a high level of automation at each of our facilities that includes real-time computerized monitoring of the manufacturing process. Such automation provides consistency across our facilities so we can satisfy customer orders at all of our manufacturing locations. In addition, our enterprise resource planning system allows us to efficiently plan our production by location with global, real-time visibility. 

We test our products in real-time and at a high frequency after production. The Quality Department at all of our manufacturing facilities follows our global quality assurance program and has a mandate to disposition products that do not meet required standards. 

Raw Materials 

Resin is the primary raw material used in our process, accounting for more than half of our manufacturing costs. A number of additives as well as packaging materials represent the remainder of our raw material costs. 

We have multiple vendors for resin. Our objective has been to carry at least a five-week supply of resin to provide protection against supply interruptions resulting from inclement weather, natural disasters and strikes. The stock is distributed among our production facilities and warehouses so that a disruptive event at one location would not affect our ability to continue production. We have qualified resin suppliers local to each of our manufacturing facilities and continue to pursue qualification of additional resin suppliers. 

Seasonal Trends 

Our business could be adversely affected by seasonal trends, holiday seasons and weather patterns. See Item 1A-Risk Factors for more information. 

Our Competition 

We face intense competition in the solar encapsulant market and have experienced a significant decline in our global market share from approximately 30% in 2010 to approximately 3% in 2015. We compete with a number of encapsulant manufacturers, including Bridgestone Corporation, Hangzhou First PV Material Co., Ltd., Mitsui Chemicals Group, Inc. and SK Chemical Ltd. We also face competition from suppliers of non-EVA encapsulants including 3M Company, Dow Chemical Corporation, Dow Corning Corporation, Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd., and E.I. DuPont De Nemours and Company ("DuPont"). Over the years, various alternative encapsulant materials have been used in solar modules, including POE, PVB and silicone. Many of our competitors are large, global companies with substantially more financial, manufacturing and logistical resources. Also, low-cost solar module manufacturers have emerged in Asia, primarily in China, who compete with our legacy customers in Western markets. As the China solar market matures, additional encapsulant providers from China and the greater Asian markets may compete with us. We compete on the basis of various factors, including: 

&#149; price; &#149; product performance, including quality and technology; &#149; product innovations; &#149; customer service and technical support; and &#149; delivery timing and logistics. We expect competition in the encapsulant space to continue to be intense. 

Qualification and Certification 

Design certification programs for solar modules measure performance under simulated or advanced environmental conditions. In certifying their solar modules, our customers must qualify the encapsulant utilized within their product. The certification and qualification tests related to solar modules are defined in the following standards: IEC 61215 (crystalline silicon), IEC 61646 (thin-film) and UL 1703. 

A successful qualification test program typically means that the tested models/types of solar modules have been subjected to and have passed the minimum requirements of the relevant standards. In addition, many PV module manufacturers often use internal validation tests that are beyond the scope and requirements of IEC and UL. These tests require suppliers to spend more time and investment to become approved suppliers for the module manufacturer's bill of materials. Qualification or certification does not guarantee any performance, but is designed to provide reasonable assurance that the solar modules of the tested model or type will perform reliably under field conditions. 

Under guidelines developed by the IEC/TC82/WG2 committee in 2000, modifications to the encapsulation system for solar modules can require retesting of the solar module. Such guidelines call for various retesting if there is any change in the chemistry of the encapsulant used in the solar module. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 165 people on a full or part-time basis. We maintain a non-unionized workforce, with the exception of some employees in our manufacturing facility in Spain, where unions are statutory. We have not experienced any significant work stoppages during the past five years. 

Executive Officers 

The following table sets forth the names and ages, as of March 1, 2016, of our executive officers. The descriptions below include each such person's service as a board member or an executive officer of STR Holdings, Inc. and our predecessor. 

Name 

&#160; Age &#160; Position Robert S. Yorgensen &#160; &#160; 52 &#160; Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas D. Vitro &#160; &#160; 55 &#160; Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer 

Robert S. Yorgensen. Mr. Yorgensen has been our Chairman since December 2014 and our President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of our board since January 2012. Prior to becoming our CEO, Mr. Yorgensen was Vice President of STR Holdings, Inc., and President of our Solar Division since 2007, and has been employed with us for over 30 years. Mr. Yorgensen has held a variety of positions with us, including Extruded Products Manager and Senior Technical Specialist of Materials RD&#38;E and Specialty Manufacturing, Technical Specialist of Materials RD&#38;E and Specialty Manufacturing and Project Leader of Development Engineering and Specialty Manufacturing. He holds a Bachelor of Technology, Mechanical Engineering degree from the University of Connecticut and an A.S. from Hartford State Technical College. 

Thomas D. Vitro. Mr. Vitro has been our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since December 2015 and is responsible for all finance and accounting functions of the Company. Previously, Mr. Vitro served in various positions with us between 1982 and 2013, most recently as Vice President, Finance from 2009 to 2013. Prior to that, he was the Corporate Controller from 1988 to 2009. Mr. Vitro has a Bachelor of Science in Accountancy from Bentley University and is a Certified Management Accountant. 

Each executive officer holds office for a term of one year and until his successor is duly elected and qualified, in accordance with our bylaws. 

Intellectual Property 

Our intellectual property consists of multiple encapsulant formulations, as well as several processes and sub-processes, and our trademarks "STR&#174;", "PhotoCap&#174;" and "STR Protected&#174;." As appropriate, we require employees, suppliers and customers to execute confidentiality agreements. 

We own a number of trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights that relate to our products. We typically rely on trade secrets rather than patents to protect our proprietary manufacturing processes, proprietary encapsulant formulations, methods, documentation and other technology, as well as certain other business information. Patent protection requires a costly and uncertain federal registration process that would place our confidential information in the public domain. While we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property rights, such confidentiality provisions related to our trade secrets could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets. Also, others may independently develop technologies or products that are similar or identical to ours. In such case, our trade secrets would not prevent third parties from competing with us. See Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors and Item 3&#151;Legal Proceedings. 

Environmental Regulation 

We are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety and pollution-control laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations is not material and we do not believe the cost of compliance with these laws and regulations will be material. We use, generate and discharge hazardous substances, chemicals and wastes at some of our facilities in connection with our product development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to restrict adequately the discharge of such substances, chemicals or wastes could subject us to potentially significant liabilities, clean-up costs, monetary damages, fines or suspensions in our business operations. In addition, some of our facilities are located on properties with a history of use involving hazardous substances, chemicals and wastes and may be contaminated. For example, we are in the process of monitoring recently performed environmental remediation at our 10 Water Street, Enfield, Connecticut location under a state remediation program. During our investigation, the site was found to contain a presence of volatile organic compounds, and we have removed contaminated soil to remediate these conditions. The estimated remaining cost we expect to pay to monitor the property is approximately $0.1 million. If we elect to sell, transfer or change the use of the facility, additional environmental testing would be required. We cannot assure that we will not discover further environmental contamination or that we would not be required to incur significant expenditures for environmental remediation in the future. 

Available Information 

Information regarding us, including corporate governance policies, ethics policies and charters for the committees of the Board of Directors can be found on our internet website at http://www.strsolar.com and copies of these documents are available to stockholders, without charge, upon request to Investor Relations, STR Holdings, Inc., 10 Water Street, Enfield, Connecticut 06082. The information contained in our website is not intended to be incorporated into this Form 10-K. In addition, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our internet website on the same day that we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Information filed with the SEC may be read or copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., 

Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. These filings are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and at the internet website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

