 Item 1. Business 

Unless the context requires otherwise, references to &#147;Lantheus,&#148; &#147;the Company,&#148; &#147;our company,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us&#148; and &#147;our&#148; refer to Lantheus Holdings, Inc. and, as the context requires, its direct and indirect subsidiaries, references to &#147;Lantheus Holdings&#148; refer to Lantheus Holdings, Inc. and references to &#147;LMI&#148; refer to Lantheus Medical Imaging, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary. 

Overview 

We are a global leader in the development, manufacture and commercialization of innovative diagnostic medical imaging agents and products that assist clinicians in the diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular and other diseases. Our agents are routinely used to diagnose coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, stroke, peripheral vascular disease and other diseases. Clinicians use our imaging agents and products across a range of imaging modalities, including nuclear imaging, echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI. We believe that the resulting improved diagnostic information enables healthcare providers to better detect and characterize, or rule out, disease, potentially achieving improved patient outcomes, reducing patient risk and limiting overall costs for payers and the entire healthcare system. 

Our commercial products are used by cardiologists, nuclear physicians, radiologists, internal medicine physicians, sonographers and technologists working in a variety of clinical settings. We sell our products to hospitals, clinics, group practices, integrated delivery networks, group purchasing organizations, radiopharmacies and, in certain circumstances, wholesalers. 

We sell our products globally and have operations in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and Australia and distribution relationships in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America. 

Our Products 

Our portfolio of 10 commercial products is diversified across a range of imaging modalities. Our products include contrast agents and medical radiopharmaceuticals (including technetium generators). 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Contrast agents are typically non-radioactive compounds that are used in diagnostic procedures such as cardiac ultrasounds, or echocardiograms, x-ray imaging or MRI that are used by physicians to improve the clarity of the diagnostic image. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Radiopharmaceuticals are radioactive pharmaceuticals used by clinicians to perform nuclear imaging procedures. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In certain circumstances, a radioactive element, or radioisotope, is attached to a chemical compound to form the radiopharmaceutical. This act of attaching the radioisotope to the chemical compound is called radiolabeling, or labeling. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In other circumstances, a radioisotope can be used as a radiopharmaceutical without attaching any additional chemical compound. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Radioisotopes are most commonly manufactured in a nuclear research reactor, where a radioactive target is bombarded with subatomic particles, or on a cyclotron, which is a type of particle accelerator that also creates radioisotopes. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Two common forms of nuclear imaging procedures are single-photon emission computed tomography, or SPECT, which measures gamma rays emitted by a SPECT radiopharmaceutical, and positron emission tomography, or PET, which measures positrons emitted by a PET radiopharmaceutical. As an example of the procedures in which our products may be used, in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease, a typical diagnostic progression could include an electrocardiogram, followed by an echocardiogram 

&#160;

(possibly using our agent DEFINITY), and then a nuclear myocardial perfusion imaging, or MPI, study using either SPECT or PET imaging (possibly using our technetium generator or one of our MPI agents). An MPI study assesses blood flow distribution to the heart. MPI is also used for diagnosing the presence of coronary artery disease. 

DEFINITY 

DEFINITY is the leading ultrasound contrast imaging agent based on revenue and usage and, in the United States, is indicated for use in patients with suboptimal echocardiograms. Numerous patient conditions can decrease the quality of images of the left ventricle, the primary pumping chamber of the heart. Of the total number of echocardiograms performed each year in the United States&#151;over 31 million in 2015&#151;a third party source estimates that approximately 20%, or approximately 6 million echocardiograms in 2015, produce suboptimal images. The use of DEFINITY during echocardiography allows physicians to significantly improve their assessment of the function of the left ventricle. 

DEFINITY is a clear, colorless, sterile liquid, which, upon activation in the Vialmix apparatus, a medical device specifically designed for DEFINITY, becomes a homogenous, opaque, milky white injectable suspension of perflutren-containing lipid microspheres. After activation and intravenous injection, DEFINITY improves the ultrasound delineation of the left ventricular endocardial border, or innermost layer of tissue that lines the chamber of the left ventricle. Better visualization of the ventricle wall allows clinicians to see wall motion abnormalities, namely that the heart muscle is not expanding and contracting in a normal, consistent and predictable way. We believe this allows clinicians to make more informed decisions about disease status. 

DEFINITY offers flexible dosing and administration through an IV bolus injection or continuous IV infusion. We believe DEFINITY&#146;s synthetic lipid-cased coating gives the compound a distinct competitive advantage, because it provides a strong ultrasound signal and is the only perflutren-based echo contrast agent made without albumin. As a result, we believe DEFINITY will be a key driver of the future growth of our business, both in the United States and in international markets as we continue to grow contrast penetration through sales and marketing efforts focused on the appropriate use of contrast and maintain our leading position. 

Since its launch in 2001, DEFINITY has been used in imaging procedures in more than 6.7 million patients throughout the world. In 2015, DEFINITY was the leading ultrasound imaging agent based on revenue and usage, used by echocardiologists and sonographers. We estimate that DEFINITY had approximately 78% share of the market for contrast agents in echocardiography procedures in the United States as of December 2015. DEFINITY currently competes with Optison, a GE Healthcare product, Lumason, a recently-approved Bracco product (known as SonoVue outside the U.S.) as well as other non-echocardiography imaging modalities. DEFINITY, Optison and Lumason all carry an FDA-required boxed warning, which has been modified over time, to notify physicians and patients about potentially serious safety concerns or risks posed by the products. See &#147;Risk Factors&#151;Risks Relating to our Business and Industry&#151;Ultrasound contrast agents may cause side effects which could limit our ability to sell DEFINITY.&#148; 

DEFINITY is currently patent protected in the United States until 2021 and in numerous foreign jurisdictions with patent or regulatory protection until 2019, and we have an active life cycle management program for this agent. DEFINITY generated revenues of $111.9 million, $95.8 million and $78.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. DEFINITY represented approximately 38%, 32% and 28% of our revenues in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

&#160;

Our leading commercial radiopharmaceutical products are: 

TechneLite 

TechneLite is a self-contained system or generator of Technetium (Tc99m), a radioactive isotope with a six hour half-life, used by radiopharmacies to prepare various nuclear imaging agents. Technetium results from the radioactive decay of molybdenum-99, or Moly, itself a radioisotope with a 66-hour half-life produced in nuclear research reactors around the world from enriched uranium. The TechneLite generator is a little larger than a coffee can in size, and the self-contained system houses a vertical glass column at its core that contains Moly. During our manufacturing process, Moly is added to the column within the generator where it is adsorbed onto alumina powder. The column is sterilized, enclosed in a lead shield and further sealed in a cylindrical plastic container, which is then immediately shipped to our radiopharmacy customers. Because of the short half-lives of Moly and technetium, radiopharmacies typically purchase TechneLite generators on a weekly basis pursuant to standing orders. 

The technetium produced by our TechneLite generator is the medical radioisotope that can be attached to a number of imaging agents, including our own Cardiolite products and Neurolite, during the labeling process. To radiolabel a technetium-based radiopharmaceutical, a vial of sterile saline and a vacuum vial are each affixed to the top of a TechneLite generator. The sterile saline is pulled through the generator where it attracts technetium resulting from the radioactive decay of Moly within the generator column. The technetium-containing radioactive saline is then pulled into the vacuum vial and subsequently combined by a radiopharmacist with the applicable imaging agent, and individual patient-specific radiolabeled imaging agent doses are then prepared. When administered, the imaging agent binds to specific tissues or organs for a period of time, enabling the technetium to illustrate the functional health of the imaged tissues or organs in a diagnostic image. Our ability to produce and market TechneLite is highly dependent on our supply of Moly. See &#147;&#151;Raw Materials and Supply Relationships&#151;Molybdenum-99.&#148; 

TechneLite is produced in thirteen sizes and is currently marketed primarily in North America and Latin America, largely to radiopharmacies that prepare unit doses of radiopharmaceutical imaging agents and that ship these preparations directly to hospitals for administration to patients. In the United States, we have supply contracts with significant radiopharmacy chains, including Cardinal, United Pharmacy Partners, or UPPI, GE Healthcare and Triad Isotopes, Inc., or Triad. We also supply generators on a purchase order basis with other customers. As of December 2015, we believe TechneLite had approximately 28% of the U.S. generator market share, competing primarily with technetium-based generators produced by Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals, or Mallinckrodt. In Puerto Rico, we also supply TechneLite to our Company-owned radiopharmacy to prepare radiopharmaceutical imaging agent unit doses. In Canada, where we sold our radiopharmacies in January 2016, we have a supply agreement with Isologic, the buyer of those radiopharmacies. Under the supply agreement with Isologic, we will supply Isologic with certain of our products on commercial terms, including certain product purchase commitments by Isologic. The agreement expires on January 12, 2021 and may be terminated upon the occurrence of specified events, including a material breach by the other party, bankruptcy by either party and certain force majeure events. 

The Moly used in our TechneLite generators can be produced using targets made of either highly-enriched uranium, or HEU, or low-enriched uranium, or LEU. LEU consists of uranium that contains less than 20% of the uranium-235 isotope. HEU is often considered weapons grade material, with 20% or more of uranium-235. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Medical Isotopes Production Act of 2012, or AMIPA, as part of the 2013 National Defense Authorization Act. AMIPA encourages the domestic production of LEU Moly and provides for the eventual prohibition of the export of HEU from the United States. Although Medicare generally does not provide separate payment to hospitals for the use of diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals administered in an outpatient setting, since January 1, 2013, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the federal agency responsible for administering the Medicare program, has provided an add-on payment under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system for every technetium diagnostic dose produced from non-HEU sourced Moly, to cover the marginal cost for radioisotopes produced from non-HEU sources. Our LEU TechneLite generator satisfies the reimbursement requirements under the applicable CMS rules. 

&#160;

TechneLite has patent protection in the United States and various foreign countries on certain component technology currently expiring in 2029. In addition, given the significant know-how and trade secrets associated with the methods of manufacturing and assembling the TechneLite generator, we believe we have a substantial amount of valuable and defensible proprietary intellectual property associated with the product. We believe that our substantial capital investments in our highly automated TechneLite production line and our extensive experience in complying with the stringent regulatory requirements for the handling of nuclear materials create significant and sustainable competitive advantages for us in generator manufacturing and distribution. TechneLite generated revenues of $72.6 million, $93.6 million and $92.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. TechneLite represented approximately 25%, 31% and 33% of our revenues in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Xenon Xe 133 Gas 

Xenon is a radiopharmaceutical gas that is inhaled and used to assess pulmonary function and also to image cerebral blood flow. Our Xenon is manufactured by a third party as part of the Moly production process and packaged by us. We are currently the leading provider of Xenon in the United States. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, Xenon Xe 133 Gas represented approximately 17%, 12% and 11%, respectively, of our revenues. 

Other Commercial Products 

In addition to the products listed above, our portfolio of commercial products also includes important imaging agents in specific segments, which provide a stable base of recurring revenue. Most of these products have a favorable industry position as a result of our substantial infrastructure investment, our specialized workforce, our technical know-how and our supplier and customer relationships. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cardiolite , also known by its generic name sestamibi, is an injectable, technetium-labeled imaging agent used in MPI procedures to assess blood flow to the muscle of the heart using SPECT. Cardiolite was approved by the FDA in 1990 and its market exclusivity expired in July 2008. Included in Cardiolite revenues are branded Cardiolite and generic sestamibi revenues, some of which we produce and some of which we procure from third parties from time to time. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Neurolite is an injectable, technetium-labeled imaging agent used with SPECT technology to identify the area within the brain where blood flow has been blocked or reduced due to stroke. We launched Neurolite in 1995. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Thallium Tl 201 is an injectable radiopharmaceutical imaging agent used in MPI studies to detect coronary artery disease. We have marketed Thallium since 1977 and manufacture the agent using cyclotron technology. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Gallium Ga 67 is an injectable radiopharmaceutical imaging agent used to detect certain infections and cancerous tumors, especially lymphoma. We manufacture Gallium using cyclotron technology. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Gludef is an injectable, fluorine-18-radiolabeled imaging agent used with PET technology to identify and characterize tumors in patients undergoing oncologic diagnostic procedures. Gludef is our branded version of FDG in the United States. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Quadramet , our only therapeutic product, is an injectable radiopharmaceutical used to treat severe bone pain associated with certain kinds of cancer. Previously, we served as a contract manufacturer of Samarium 153, the radioisotope used to prepare Quadramet. Effective December 13, 2013, we purchased the rights to Quadramet in the United States and now serve as the direct manufacturer and supplier of Quadramet in the United States. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Ablavar is an injectable, gadolinium-based contrast agent used with magnetic resonance angiography, or MRA, a type of MRI scan, to image the iliac arteries that start at the aorta and go through the pelvis into the legs, in order to diagnose narrowing or blockage of these arteries in known or suspected peripheral vascular disease. We launched Ablavar in January 2010. &#160;

For revenue and other financial information for our U.S. and International segments, see Note 20, &#147;Segment Information&#148; to our consolidated financial statements. 

Distribution, Marketing and Sales 

The following table sets forth certain key market information for each of our commercial products: 

&#160;

Product 

&#160; Currently Marketed 

&#160; Regulatory Approval, 

but Not Currently Marketed 

DEFINITY

&#160; United States, Canada,

Australia, South Korea, New Zealand

&#160; EU, Israel, India(1), Singapore, Mexico TechneLite

&#160; United States, Canada,

Caribbean Islands, Colombia,

Costa Rica, Taiwan

&#160; South Korea, Mexico, Panama, Australia Xenon Xe 133 Gas

&#160; United States, Taiwan &#160; Canada Cardiolite

&#160; United States, Canada, Cost Rica, Israel, Japan,

South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand,

Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Panama, Philippines

&#160; Colombia, Mexico Neurolite

&#160; United States, Canada, Costa Rica, Japan,

Hong Kong, Philippines, Australia,

New Zealand, Taiwan, Thailand,

Europe(2)(3)

&#160; South Korea, Taiwan, Mexico Thallium Tl 201

&#160; United States, Canada, Australia,

South Korea, Pakistan, Panama, Taiwan

&#160; New Zealand Gallium Ga67

&#160; United States, Canada, Colombia, Mexico,

Pakistan, Australia, Costa Rica, South Korea,

Panama, Taiwan, New Zealand

&#160; None FDG

&#160; Puerto Rico &#160; None Quadramet

&#160; United States &#160; None Ablavar

&#160; United States, Canada &#160; Australia &#160;

(1) JHS is pending approval in India. (2) JHS has regulatory approval for Neurolite in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden. (3) JHS has regulatory approval pending for Neurolite in Czech Repbulic. In the United States and Canada, we sell DEFINITY through our sales team of approximately 80 employees that call on healthcare providers in the echocardiography space, as well as group purchasing organizations and integrated delivery networks. In 2013, we transitioned the sales and marketing efforts for Ablavar from our sales team to our customer service team in order to allow our sales team to focus exclusively on driving our DEFINITY sales growth. For the year ended December 31, 2015, DEFINITY sales represented approximately 38% of our revenues. 

&#160;

Our radiopharmaceutical products are sold in the United States through a small nuclear products sales team, primarily to radiopharmacies. We sell a majority of our radiopharmaceutical products in the United States to radiopharmacies that are controlled by or associated with Cardinal, UPPI, GE Healthcare and Triad. Our contractual distribution and other arrangements with these radiopharmacy groups are as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cardinal maintains approximately 131 radiopharmacies that are typically located in large, densely populated urban areas in the United States. We estimate that Cardinal&#146;s radiopharmacies distributed approximately 40% of the aggregate U.S. SPECT doses sold in the first half of 2015 (the latest information currently available to us). Our written supply agreements with Cardinal relating to TechneLite, Xenon, Neurolite, Cardiolite and certain other products expired in accordance with their terms on December 31, 2014. Following extended discussions with Cardinal, on November 19, 2015, the Company entered into a new contract for the distribution of TechneLite, Xenon, Neurolite and other products beginning in 2015 through 2017. The agreement specifies pricing levels and requirements to purchase minimum volumes of certain products during certain periods. The agreement, which expires on December 31, 2017, may be terminated upon the occurrence of specified events, including a material breach by other party and certain force majeure events. From January 1, 2015 until the signing of the new agreement on November 19, 2015, we continued to accept and fulfill product orders from this major customer on a purchase order basis at supply price. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; UPPI is a cooperative purchasing group (roughly analogous to a group purchasing organization) of approximately 77 independently owned or smaller chain radiopharmacies located in the United States. UPPI&#146;s radiopharmacies are typically broadly dispersed geographically, with some urban presence and a substantial number of radiopharmacies located in suburban and rural areas of the country. We estimate that these independent radiopharmacies, together with an additional 36 unaffiliated, independent radiopharmacies, distributed more than 28% of the aggregate U.S. SPECT doses sold in the first half of 2015. We currently have an agreement with UPPI for the distribution of TechneLite, Xenon and certain other products to radiopharmacies or families of radiopharmacies within the UPPI cooperative purchasing group. The agreement contains specified pricing levels based upon specified purchase amounts for UPPI. We are entitled to terminate the UPPI agreement upon 60 days written notice. The UPPI agreement expires on December 31, 2016. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; GE Healthcare maintains 31 radiopharmacies in the United States that purchase our TechneLite generators. These radiopharmacies primarily distribute GE Healthcare&#146;s Myoview, a technetium-labeled MPI agent. We estimate that GE Healthcare distributed approximately 8% of the aggregate U.S. SPECT doses sold in the first half of 2015. We currently have an agreement with GE Healthcare for the distribution of TechneLite, Xenon and other products. The agreement provides that GE Healthcare will purchase a minimum percentage of TechneLite generators as well as certain other products in the United States or Canada from us. Our agreement, which expires on December 31, 2017, may be terminated by either party on (i) two years&#146; written notice relating to TechneLite and (ii) six months&#146; written notice relating to the other products. Our agreement also allows for termination upon the occurrence of specified events including a material breach by either party, bankruptcy by either party and force majeure events. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Triad maintains approximately 56 radiopharmacies in the United States that purchase a range of our products. We estimate that Triad distributed approximately 18% of the aggregate U.S. SPECT doses sold in the first half of 2015. In June 2015, we entered into a new contract with Triad for the distribution of Xenon, Neurolite and Cardiolite products and, beginning in 2016, TechneLite generators. The agreement specifies pricing levels and requires Triad to purchase minimum volumes of certain products from the Company. The agreement expires on December 31, 2017 and may be terminated upon the occurrence of specified events, including a material breach by the other party and certain force majeure events. In addition to the distribution arrangements for our radiopharmaceutical products described above, we also sell certain of our radiopharmaceutical products to independent radiopharmacies and directly to hospitals and 

&#160;

clinics that maintain in-house radiopharmaceutical capabilities and operations. In the latter case, this represents a small percentage of overall sales because the majority of hospitals and clinics do not maintain these in-house capabilities. 

In Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America, we utilize third party distributor relationships to market, sell and distribute our products, either on a country-by-country basis or on a multicountry regional basis. In October 2013, we entered into a new supply and distribution agreement for Cardiolite and Neurolite in certain European countries with Mallinckrodt AG. In March 2015, we terminated that agreement. In March 2012, we entered into a new development and distribution arrangement for DEFINITY in China, Hong Kong S.A.R. and Macau S.A.R. with Double-Crane Pharmaceutical Company, or Double-Crane. Double-Crane is currently pursuing the Chinese regulatory approval required to commercialize the product. There are three milestones in the regulatory approval process to commercialize DEFINITY in China: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; First, submission of a Clinical Trial Application which seeks Import Drug License approval. Double-Crane submitted the Clinical Trial Application to the Chinese Food and Drug Administration, or CFDA, in June 2013. The CFDA accepted the Clinical Trial Application for review in July 2013. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Second, approval of the Clinical Trial Application, at which point Double-Crane can commence two small confirmatory clinical trials&#151;one for abdominal (liver and kidney) and one for cardiac. The CFDA approved the Clinical Trial Application in February 2016. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Third, approval of the Import Drug License. If the regulatory process, including the clinical trials, is successful, we currently estimate the timing for approval of DEFINITY in China could be as soon as 2017. We believe that international markets, particularly China, represent significant growth opportunities for our products. The Mallinckrodt and Double-Crane distribution agreements did not have a significant impact on our revenue during 2015. 

As of December 31, 2015, we sold our products (and others) directly to end users through four radiopharmacies that we either owned or operated in Canada, the two radiopharmacies we own in Australia and the one radiopharmacy we own in Puerto Rico. On January 12, 2016, we sold our Canadian radiopharmacies to Isologic and entered into a long-term supply agreement with Isologic under which we will supply Isologic with certain of our products on commercial terms, including certain product purchase commitments by Isologic. The agreement expires on January 12, 2021 and may be terminated upon the occurrence of specified events, including a material breach by the other party, bankruptcy by either party and certain force majeure events. We also maintain our own direct sales forces in these markets so we can control the importation, marketing, distribution and sale of our imaging agents in these regions. 

Customers 

For the year ended December 31, 2015, our largest customers were UPPI, Cardinal, and GE Healthcare, accounting for 12%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of our revenues. 

Competition 

We believe that our key product characteristics, such as proven efficacy, reliability and safety, coupled with our core competencies, such as our efficient manufacturing processes, our established distribution network, our experienced field sales organization and our customer service focus, are important factors that distinguish us from our competitors. 

The market for diagnostic medical imaging agents is highly competitive and continually evolving. Our principal competitors in existing diagnostic modalities include large, global companies that are more diversified than we are and that have substantial financial, manufacturing, sales and marketing, distribution and other resources. These competitors include Mallinckrodt, GE Healthcare, Bayer, Bracco and DRAXIS Specialty 

&#160;

Pharmaceuticals Inc. (an affiliate of JHS), or Draxis, as well as other competitors. We cannot anticipate their competitive actions in the same or competing diagnostic modalities, such as significant price reductions on products that are comparable to our own, development of new products that are more cost-effective or have superior performance than our current products or the introduction of generic versions after our proprietary products lose their current patent protection. In addition, distributors of our products could attempt to shift end-users to competing diagnostic modalities and products. Our current or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of these activities. 

Generic competition has substantially eroded our market share for Cardiolite, beginning in September 2008 when the first generic product was launched. We are currently aware of four separate, third party generic offerings of sestamibi. We also sell our own generic version of sestamibi. See &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;Generic competition has significantly eroded our market share of the MPI segment for Cardiolite products and will continue to do so.&#148; 

Raw Materials and Supply Relationships 

We rely on certain raw materials and supplies to produce our products. Due to the specialized nature of our products and the limited, and sometimes intermittent, supply of raw materials available in the market, we have established relationships with several key suppliers. Our most important and widely used raw material is Moly. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our largest supplier of raw materials and supplies was Nordion, accounting for approximately 13% of our total purchases. 

Molybdenum-99 

Our TechneLite, Cardiolite and Neurolite products all rely on Moly, the radioisotope which is produced by bombarding Uranium-235 with neutrons in research reactors. Moly is the most common radioisotope used for medical diagnostic imaging purposes. With a 66-hour half-life, Moly decays into among other things technetium-99m, (Tc-99m), another radioisotope with a half-life of six hours. Tc-99m is the isotope that is attached to radiopharmaceuticals, including our own Cardiolite and Neurolite, during the labeling process. 

We currently purchase finished Moly from four of the five main processing sites in the world, namely, ANSTO in Australia; Institute for Radioelements, or IRE, in Belgium; Nordion, formerly known as MDS Nordion, in Canada; and NTP Radioisotopes, or NTP, in South Africa. These processing sites are, in turn, supplied by six of the seven main Moly-producing reactors in the world, namely, OPAL in Australia; BR2 in Belgium; LVR-10 in the Czech Republic; High Flux Reactor, or HFR, in The Netherlands; NRU in Canada; and SAFARI in South Africa. 

Historically, our largest supplier of Moly has been Nordion, which relies on the NRU reactor for its supply of Moly. Our agreement with Nordion contains minimum percentage purchase requirements for Moly. The agreement allows for termination upon the occurrence of certain events. Nordion can terminate if we fail to purchase a minimum percentage of Moly or if Nordion incurs certain cost increases. Either party may terminate if the other party fails to comply with material obligations, is bankrupt or experiences a force majeure event subject to a waiting period. The current agreement expires on October 31, 2016, and the NRU reactor has announced a transition in 2016 from providing regular supply of medical isotopes to providing only emergency back-up supply of HEU based medical isotopes from November 1, 2016 through March 2018. 

Our agreement with NTP includes their consortium partner, ANSTO. ANSTO has under construction, in cooperation with NTP, a new Moly processing facility that ANSTO believes will expand its production capacity by approximately 2.5 times, with expanded commercial production planned to start in the latter part of 2016. In addition, IRE recently received approval from its regulator to expand its production capability by up to 50% of its former capacity. This new ANSTO and IRE production capacity is expected to replace the NRU&#146;s current routine production. The NTP/ANSTO agreement contains minimum percentage volume requirements and 

&#160;

provides for the increased supply of Moly derived from LEU targets from NTP and ANSTO. The agreement allows for termination upon the occurrence of certain events, including failure by NTP to provide our required amount of Moly, material breach of any provision by either party, bankruptcy by either party and force majeure events. Additionally, we have the ability to terminate the agreement with six months&#146; written notice prior to the expiration of the agreement. The agreement expires on December 31, 2017. 

In March 2013, we entered into a similar agreement with IRE, or the IRE Agreement. IRE previously supplied us as a subcontractor under the agreement with NTP/ANSTO. Similar to the agreement with NTP/ANSTO, the IRE Agreement contains minimum percentage volume requirements. The IRE Agreement also requires IRE to provide certain increased quantities of Moly during periods of supply shortage or failure. The IRE Agreement also provides for an increased supply of Moly derived from LEU targets upon IRE&#146;s completion of its ongoing conversion program to modify its facilities and processes in accordance with Belgian nuclear security commitments. The IRE Agreement allows for termination upon the occurrence of certain events, including failure by IRE to provide our required amount of Moly, material breach of any provision by either party, bankruptcy by either party and force majeure events. The IRE Agreement expires on December 31, 2017. 

To further augment and diversify our current supply, we are pursuing additional sources of Moly from potential new producers around the world that seek to produce Moly with existing or new reactors or technologies. For example, in November 2014, we announced entering into a new strategic agreement with SHINE Medical Technologies, Inc., a Wisconsin-based company, or SHINE, for the future supply of Moly. Under the terms of the supply agreement, SHINE will provide Moly produced using its proprietary LEU-solution technology for use in our TechneLite generators once SHINE&#146;s facility becomes operational and receives all necessary regulatory approvals, which SHINE currently estimates will occur in 2019. See &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;The global supply of Moly is fragile and not stable. Our dependence on a limited number of third party suppliers for Moly could prevent us from delivering some of our products to our customers in the required quantities, with the required timeframe, or at all, which could result in order cancellations and decreased revenues.&#148; 

Xenon 

Currently, Nordion is our sole supplier of Xenon, and we believe it is currently the principal supplier of Xenon in the world. Xenon is captured by the NRU reactor as a by-product of the Moly production process. Our agreement with Nordion is on a purchase order basis. As a result of this transaction, our supplier could change the terms on which we obtain Xenon. In January 2015, we announced entering into a new strategic agreement with IRE for the future supply of Xenon. Under the terms of the agreement, IRE will provide bulk Xenon to us for processing and finishing once development work has been completed and all necessary regulatory approvals have been obtained. We currently estimate commercial production will occur in 2016. If we are not able to begin providing commercial quantities of Xenon prior to the NRU reactor&#146;s announced medical isotope supply transition in October 2016, there may be a period of time during which we are not able to offer Xenon in our portfolio of commercial products. See &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;We face potential supply and demand challenges for Xenon.&#148; 

Other Materials 

We have additional supply arrangements for APIs, excipients, packaging materials and other materials and components, none of which are exclusive, but a number of which are sole source, and all of which we currently believe are either in good standing or replaceable without any material disruption to our business. 

Manufacturing 

We maintain manufacturing operations at our North Billerica, Massachusetts facility. We manufacture TechneLite on a highly automated production line and also manufacture Thallium and Gallium at this site using our cyclotron technology and Xenon using our hot cell infrastructure. We manufacture, finish and distribute our 

&#160;

radiopharmaceutical products on a just-in-time basis, and supply our customers with these products either by next day delivery services or by either ground or air custom logistics. We believe that our substantial capital investments in our highly automated generator production line, our cyclotrons and our extensive experience in complying with the stringent regulatory requirements for the handling of nuclear materials and operations in the FDA regulated environment create significant and sustainable competitive advantages for us. 

In addition to our in-house manufacturing capabilities, a substantial portion of our products are manufactured by third party contract manufacturing organizations, and in certain instances, we rely on them for sole source manufacturing. To ensure the quality of the products that are manufactured by third parties, the key raw materials used in those products are first sent to our North Billerica facility, where we test them prior to the third party manufacturing of the final product. After the final products are manufactured, they are sent back to us for final quality control testing and then we ship them to our customers. We have expertise in the design, development and validation of complex manufacturing systems and processes, and our strong execution and quality control culture supports the just-in-time manufacturing model at our North Billerica facility. 

BVL, JHS and Pharmalucence 

Historically, we relied on Ben Venue Laboratories, or BVL, as our sole manufacturer of DEFINITY, Neurolite and evacuation vials, an ancillary component for our TechneLite generators, and as one of our two manufacturers of Cardiolite. Following extended operational and regulatory challenges at BVL&#146;s Bedford, Ohio facility, in March 2012, we entered into a settlement arrangement with BVL, resulting in an aggregate payment to us of $35.0 million, a broad mutual waiver and a covenant by us not to sue. Later in 2012 and in 2013, BVL continued to attempt to manufacture our products for us, and in October 2013 announced that it would cease to manufacture new batches of our products at its Bedford, Ohio facility. In November 2013, we entered into a second settlement arrangement with BVL, resulting in an additional aggregate payment to us of $8.9 million, a broad mutual waiver and a covenant by us not to sue. 

Contemporaneous with the BVL supply challenges, we expedited a number of technology transfer programs to secure and qualify production of our BVL-manufactured products from alternate contract manufacturer sites. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; DEFINITY&#151; We entered into a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement, effective as of February 1, 2012, with JHS, for the manufacture of DEFINITY. Under the agreement, JHS manufactures DEFINITY for us for an initial term of five years. We have the right to extend the agreement for an additional five-year period, with automatic renewals for additional one year periods thereafter. The agreement allows for termination upon the occurrence of certain events such as a material breach or default by either party, or bankruptcy by either party. The agreement also requires us to place orders for a minimum percentage of our requirements for DEFINITY with JHS. On November 12, 2013, we entered into a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement with Pharmalucence to manufacture and supply DEFINITY and we are currently in the technology transfer process with Pharmalucence in order to diversify our supply. We currently anticipate that we will file for FDA approval in 2016 to manufacture DEFINITY at Pharmalucence. There are no minimum purchase requirements under this agreement, which has an initial term of five years from the effective date and is renewable at our option for an additional five years. The Manufacturing Agreement allows for termination upon the occurrence of certain events, including material breach or bankruptcy by either party. During the optional five year term, either party may terminate upon thirty months advance notice. Based on our current projections, we believe that we will have sufficient supply of DEFINITY from JHS to meet expected demand. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cardiolite&#151; For the past several years, we have relied on Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, or BMS&#146; Manati, Puerto Rico site for the manufacture of our Cardiolite supply. This relationship ended on December 31, 2015 following the completion of a terminal inventory build for our Cardiolite product. We also entered into a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement, effective as of May 3, 2012, with JHS for the manufacture of Cardiolite products. We are currently in the technology transfer process and 

&#160;

&#160; anticipate that we will file for FDA approval in 2016 to manufacture Cardiolite at JHS. Under the agreement, JHS has agreed to manufacture product for an initial term of five years. We have the right to extend the agreement for an additional five-year period, with automatic renewals for additional one year periods thereafter. The agreement allows for termination upon the occurrence of specified events, including material breach or bankruptcy by either party. The agreement requires us to place orders for a minimum percentage of our requirements for Cardiolite with JHS during such term. Based on our current projections, we believe that we will have sufficient Cardiolite product supply from our current supplier and JHS for when the technology transfer process is completed and we have obtained regulatory approval for this manufacturing site to meet expected demand. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Neurolite&#151; We entered into a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement, effective as of May 3, 2012, with JHS for the manufacture of Neurolite, and in January 2015, the FDA granted approval to JHS to be a new manufacturing site for this product. Under the agreement, JHS has agreed to manufacture product for an initial term of five years. We have the right to extend the agreement for an additional five-year period, with automatic renewals for additional one year periods thereafter. The agreement allows for termination upon the occurrence of specified events, including material breach or bankruptcy by either party. The agreement also requires us to place orders for a minimum percentage of our requirements for Neurolite with JHS during such term. Based on our current projections, we believe that we will have sufficient supply of Neurolite from JHS to meet expected demand. Our manufacturing agreement for Ablavar has terminated. We do not have any current plans to initiate technology transfer activities for Ablavar. Our existing Ablavar inventory will expire in the third quarter of 2016, and we will have no further Ablavar inventory that we will be able to sell unless and until we engage in Ablavar technology transfer activities in the future with a new manufacturing partner. 

Although we are pursuing new manufacturing relationships to establish and secure additional long-term or alternative suppliers as described above, we are uncertain of the timing as to when these arrangements could provide meaningful quantities of product. See &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry&#151;The global supply of Moly is fragile and not stable. Our dependence on a limited number of third party suppliers for Moly could prevent us from delivering some of our products to our customers in the required quantities, within the required timeframes, or at all, which could result in order cancellations and decreased revenues,&#148; &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;Challenges with product quality or product performance, including defects, caused by us or our suppliers could result in a decrease in customers and sales, unexpected expenses and loss of market share&#148; and &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;Our business and industry are subject to complex and costly regulations. If government regulations are interpreted or enforced in a manner adverse to us or our business, we may be subject to enforcement actions, penalties, exclusion and other material limitations on our operations.&#148; 

PET Manufacturing Facilities 

If flurpiridaz F 18 is ultimately successful in clinical trials, a new manufacturing model will have to be implemented where chemical ingredients of the imaging agent are provided to PET radiopharmacies that have fluorine-18 radioisotope-producing cyclotrons on premises. The radiopharmacies will combine these chemical ingredients with fluorine-18 they manufactured in specially designed chemistry synthesis boxes to generate the final radiopharmaceutical imaging agent, flurpiridaz F 18. Radiopharmacists will be able to prepare and dispense patient-specific doses from the final product. However, because each of these PET radiopharmacies will be deemed by the FDA to be a separate manufacturing site for flurpiridaz F 18, each of the radiopharmacies will have to be included in the agent&#146;s NDA and subsequent FDA filings. As a result, there will be quality and oversight responsibilities of the PET radiopharmacies associated with the NDA, unlike the current relationship we have with our nuclear imaging agent distributors that operate radiopharmacies. See &#147;&#151;Research and Development&#151;Flurpiridaz F 18 Phase 3 Program.&#148; 

&#160;

Research and Development 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we invested $14.4 million, $13.7 million, and $30.5 million, respectively, in research and development, or R&#38;D. Our R&#38;D team includes our medical affairs and medical information functions, which educate physicians on the scientific aspects of our commercial products and the approved indications, labeling and the receipt of reports relating to product quality or adverse events. We have developed a pipeline of three potential cardiovascular imaging agents which were discovered and developed in-house and which are protected by patents and patent applications we own in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. 

In March 2013, we began to implement a strategic shift in how we will fund our important R&#38;D programs. We have reduced our internal R&#38;D resources while at the same time we seek to engage strategic partners to assist us in the further development and commercialization of these agents, including flurpiridaz F 18, 18F LMI 1195 and LMI 1174. See &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;Risks Relating to our Business and Industry&#151;We will not be able to further develop or commercialize our agents in development without successful strategic partners.&#148; 

Flurpiridaz F 18&#151;PET Perfusion Agent&#151;Myocardial Perfusion 

We have developed flurpiridaz F 18, an internally discovered small molecule radiolabeled with fluorine-18, as an imaging agent used in PET MPI to assess blood flow to the heart. 

Today, most MPI procedures use SPECT technology. Although this imaging modality provides substantial clinical value, there is growing interest in the medical community to utilize technology such as PET that can provide meaningful advantages. PET is an imaging technology that when used in combination with an appropriate radiopharmaceutical imaging agent can provide important insights into physiologic and metabolic processes in the body and be useful in evaluating a variety of conditions including neurological disease, heart disease and cancer. PET imaging has demonstrated broad utility for diagnosis, prognosis, disease staging and therapeutic response. Images generated with PET technology typically exhibit very high image resolution because of substantially higher signal-to-noise efficiency, a measure of the efficiency by which energy can be captured to create an image. 

Although SPECT imaging used in conjunction with a radiopharmaceutical imaging agent, such as Cardiolite, is most commonly used for MPI studies, PET imaging has gained considerable support in the field of cardiovascular imaging as it offers many advantages to SPECT imaging, including: higher image quality, increased diagnostic certainty, more accurate risk stratification and reduced patient radiation exposure. In addition, PET MPI imaging could be particularly useful in difficult to image patients, including women and obese patients. The use of PET technology in MPI tests represents a broad emerging application for a technology more commonly associated with oncology and neurology. We anticipate that the adoption of PET technology in MPI tests will increase significantly in the future. 

Flurpiridaz F 18 Clinical Overview 

We submitted an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, for flurpiridaz F 18 to the FDA in August 2006. Our clinical program to date has consisted of three Phase 1 studies, a Phase 2 clinical trial, conducted from 2007 to 2010, involving 176 subjects who received PET MPI performed with flurpiridaz F 18 and completed the trial, and a Phase 3 clinical trial conducted from 2011 to 2013 involving 755 subjects who received PET MPI procedures with flurpiridaz F 18, completed the trial and were included in the efficacy analysis. 

Flurpiridaz F 18 Phase 2 Trial 

We evaluated flurpiridaz F 18 in a Phase 2 trial consisting of 176 subjects who completed the trial from 21 centers. These subjects underwent both SPECT and PET MPI with flurpiridaz at rest and at stress and were evaluated for safety. Of these subjects, 86 underwent coronary angiography, the current standard clinical method 

&#160;

for diagnosing coronary artery disease. Coronary angiography is an invasive procedure using fluoroscopy performed in a cardiac catheterization lab while the subject is under mild sedation. These 86 subjects formed the population for evaluating diagnostic performance. 

The PET MPI that was performed with flurpiridaz F 18 at stress utilized either pharmacological coronary vasodilation or treadmill exercise. Unlike currently available PET imaging agents for MPI with half-lives measured in seconds, flurpiridaz F 18 can be used in conjunction with treadmill exercise given its substantially longer 110 minute half-life. 

The Phase 2 trial results showed the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a significantly higher percentage of images were rated as either excellent or good quality with PET imaging, compared to SPECT imaging for stress images (98.8% vs. 84.9%, p&#60;0.01) and rest images (95.3% vs. 69.8%, p&#60;0.01); &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; diagnostic certainty of interpretation, the percentage of cases with definitely abnormal or definitely normal interpretation, was significantly higher for flurpiridaz F 18 compared to SPECT (90.7% vs. 75.6%, p&#60;0.01); &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the area under the ROC curve (the relative operating characteristic curve comparing the true positive rate to the false positive rate for coronary artery disease diagnosis) was significantly higher for flurpiridaz F 18 than SPECT (0.82&#177;0.05 vs. 0.70&#177;0.05, p&#60;0.05), indicating higher diagnostic performance; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; superiority for sensitivity (that is, the ability to identify disease) with flurpiridaz F 18 imaging was significantly higher than SPECT (78.8% vs. 61.5%, p=0.02); &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a trend toward higher specificity (that is, the ability to rule out disease) was noted, although the advantage was not statistically significant in the study; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; no drug-related serious adverse events were observed, demonstrating a positive safety profile for PET MPI imaging with flurpiridaz F 18. Flurpiridaz F 18 Phase 3 Program 

To date, our Phase 3 program for flurpiridaz F 18 has included a phase 3 trial (study 301), which was an open-label, multicenter, international study with 755 subjects with known or suspected coronary artery disease, or CAD, and scheduled for coronary angiography and SPECT imaging who completed the trial and were included in the efficacy analysis. Subjects underwent flurpiridaz F 18 PET MPI and SPECT MPI studies with coronary angiography used as the truth standard for each. The study then compared MPI imaging using flurpiridaz F 18 versus SPECT with primary endpoints of superiority for sensitivity (identifying disease) and non-inferiority for specificity (ruling out disease). 

In March 2011, we obtained agreement from the FDA on a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, for our 301 trial. See &#147;Business&#151;Regulatory Matters&#151;Food and Drug Laws.&#148; In June 2011, we enrolled our first patient, and we completed patient enrollment in the third quarter of 2013 

In the fourth quarter of 2013, we announced preliminary results from the 301 trial. Flurpiridaz F 18 appeared to be well-tolerated from a safety perspective and outperformed SPECT in a highly statistically significant manner in sensitivity. In addition, flurpiridaz F 18 showed statistically significant improvements in image quality and diagnostic certainty in comparison to SPECT. However, flurpiridaz F 18 did not meet the co-primary endpoint of non-inferiority for specificity. 

In the fourth quarter of 2014, we completed a re-read of the 301 trial results, and in May 2015, we announced the complete results from the 301 trial. PET MPI with flurpiridaz F 18 consistently showed a balanced performance in sensitivity and specificity, when compared to coronary angiography, while SPECT 

&#160;

imaging results were skewed with low sensitivity and high specificity when compared to coronary angiography. When the flurpiridaz F 18 results were compared to the SPECT results, flurpiridaz F 18 substantially outperformed SPECT in sensitivity but did not meet the non-inferiority endpoint in specificity, implying a substantial and unexpected under-diagnosis of CAD with SPECT imaging in the trial. 

In subgroup analyses, the risk-benefit profile of flurpiridaz F 18 appeared to be favorable in women, obese patients and patients with multivessel disease. A significantly higher percentage of images were rated as either excellent or good with flurpiridaz F 18 as compared to SPECT, leading to a greater diagnostic certainty of interpretation. Importantly, radiation exposure associated with flurpiridaz F 18 was reduced to approximately 50% of SPECT. In addition, no drug-related serious adverse events were observed. 

Based on these results, we have redesigned the protocol for our second Phase 3 trial with different primary endpoints. On March 13, 2015, the FDA granted us an SPA in connection with the new trial. We are currently in diligence discussions with several companies for potential partnership of flurpiridaz F 18. We are evaluating global, regional and functional opportunities relating to development, manufacturing and commercialization. After we finalize one or more of these partnering opportunities, we will then commence the second Phase 3 trial, which we currently believe will take between two and three years to complete. See &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;The process of developing new drugs and obtaining regulatory approval is complex, time-consuming and costly, and the outcome is not certain.&#148; 

18F LMI 1195&#151;Cardiac Neuronal Activity Imaging Agent 

We have developed 18F LMI 1195, also an internally discovered small molecule that is a fluorine-18-based radiopharmaceutical imaging agent, designed to assess cardiac sympathetic nerve function with PET. Sympathetic nerve activation increases the heart rate, constricts blood vessels and raises blood pressure by releasing a neurotransmitter called norepinephrine throughout the heart. Changes in the cardiac sympathetic nervous system have been associated with heart failure progression and fatal arrhythmias. 

Heart failure is a major public health problem in North America, associated with high morbidity and mortality, frequent hospitalizations and a major cost burden on the community. In the United States alone, there are over five million patients living with congestive heart failure, and over a half million new diagnoses each year. Mortality for this condition is around 50% within five years of diagnosis. Expensive therapies for heart failure are often utilized without effective predictors of patient response. Costly device therapies (for example, implantable cardiac defibrillators, or ICDs, and cardiac resynchronization therapy) are often used, although they sometimes do not provide any benefits or are activated in only a minority of recipients. Conversely, heart failure clinical practice guidelines currently preclude the use of device therapy in many patients who might benefit. Thus, a key opportunity is to better match patients to treatment based on the identification of the underlying molecular status of disease progression. 

18F LMI 1195 is taken up by the transporter that regulates norepinephrine released by the sympathetic nervous system at multiple nerve endings of the heart. PET imaging using 18F LMI 1195 could allow for the identification of patients at risk of sudden death, potentially improving clinical decision-making, including identifying which patients could benefit from certain drug therapies or the implantation of certain anti-arrhythmia devices such as ICDs. 

We have completed a Phase 1 study of 18F LMI 1195 using PET imaging. 12 normal subjects were injected intravenously with approximately six millicuries of 18F LMI 1195, imaged sequentially for a period of approximately five hours and monitored closely to observe any potential adverse events. Excellent quality images were obtained, and the radiation dose to the subjects was found to be well within acceptable limits. Blood radioactivity cleared quickly and lung activity was low throughout the study. The agent appeared to have a favorable safety profile. We are currently working closely with independent investigators in the United States, Canada and Europe to develop additional clinical data which may allow us to enter into pivotal clinical trials. We are seeking to engage strategic partners to assist us with the ongoing development activities relating to this agent. 

&#160;

LMI 1174&#151;Vascular Remodeling Imaging Agent 

We have developed LMI 1174, an internally discovered gadolinium-based MRI agent targeted to elastin in the arterial walls and atherosclerotic plaque. We believe that this agent could allow assessment of plaque location, burden, type of arterial wall remodeling and, as a result, the potential for a vascular event, which, in turn, could lead to heart attack or stroke. 

Atherosclerosis is the leading cause of heart attacks, strokes and peripheral vascular disease. Elastin plays a key role in the structure of the arterial wall and in biological signaling functions. Several pathological stimuli may be responsible for triggering elastogenesis in atherosclerosis, leading to a marked increase in elastin content during plaque development. In addition to the increase in elastin seen in autopsy samples from patients with carotid atherosclerosis, there is also an increase of elastin in aortic aneurysm samples. As a result, an elastin-specific imaging agent may facilitate detection of remodeling of the arterial walls. 

The majority of the assessments of atherosclerosis are currently obtained using angiography or MPI. MRI using LMI 1174 could allow for the identification, on a minimally-invasive basis without radiation exposure, of the presence and characteristics of atherosclerosis, potentially improving clinical decision-making to reduce the risks of cardiovascular events. 

In our preclinical work, we have identified a series of low molecular weight molecules that bind to elastin and final optimization is ongoing. Our lead molecule, LMI 1174, has been used to demonstrate utility in a number of different animal models. We are seeking to engage strategic partners to assist us with the ongoing development activities relating to this agent. 

Intellectual Property 

Patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, both in the United States and foreign countries, are very important to our business. We also rely on trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, technological innovations and licensing agreements to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third party proprietary rights, including patents and patent applications, as available, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities and monitor the intellectual property owned by others. Our ability to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside the United States, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in those countries by utilizing technologies that are similar to those developed or licensed by us. Competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. If we do not obtain sufficient protection for our intellectual property, or if we are unable to effectively enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitiveness could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. 

Trademarks, Service Marks and Trade Names 

We own various trademarks, service marks and trade names, including DEFINITY, TechneLite, Cardiolite, Neurolite, Ablavar, Vialmix, Quadramet (U.S. only) and Lantheus Medical Imaging. We have registered these trademarks, as well as others, in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. 

Patents 

We actively seek to protect the proprietary technology that we consider important to our business, including chemical species, compositions and formulations, their methods of use and processes for their manufacture, as new intellectual property is developed. In addition to seeking patent protection in the United States, we file patent applications in numerous foreign countries in order to further protect the inventions that we consider important to the development of our international business. We also rely upon trade secrets and contracts to protect our proprietary information. As of January 31, 2016, our patent portfolio included a total of 33 issued 

&#160;

U.S. patents, 192 issued foreign patents, 20 pending patent applications in the United States and 167 pending foreign applications. These patents and patent applications include claims covering the composition of matter and methods of use for all of our preclinical and clinical stage agents. 

Our patents cover many of our commercial products, and our current patent protection is generally in the United States, Canada, Mexico, most of Western Europe, various markets in Asia, and Brazil. For DEFINITY, we hold a number of different compositions of matter, use, formulation and manufacturing patents, with U.S. patent protection until 2021 and patent or regulatory extension protection in Canada, Europe and parts of Asia until 2019, and we have an active next generation program for this agent. TechneLite currently has patent protection in the United States and various foreign countries on certain component technology expiring in 2029. In addition, given the significant know-how and trade secrets associated with the methods of manufacturing and assembling the TechneLite generator, we believe we have a substantial amount of valuable and defensible proprietary intellectual property associated with the product. Neither Cardiolite nor Neurolite is covered any longer by patent protection in either the United States or the rest of the world. For Ablavar, we hold a number of different composition of matter, use, formulation and manufacturing patents, with a composition of matter U.S. patent not expiring until 2020 with regulatory extension and a manufacturing patent application, which if granted, will expire in 2034 in the absence of any patent term adjustment or regulatory extension. Xenon, Thallium and Gallium are all generic radiopharmaceuticals. 

We have numerous patents and patent applications relating to our clinical development pipeline. We have patents and patent applications in numerous jurisdictions covering composition, use, formulation and manufacturing of flurpiridaz F 18, including in the United States a composition patent expiring in 2026, a method of use patent expiring in 2028 and a method of manufacturing patent expiring in 2031, in the absence of any regulatory extension, and various patent applications, one of which, if granted, will expire in 2033. We also have patents and patent applications in numerous jurisdictions covering composition, use, and manufacture of 18F LMI 1195, our cardiac neuronal imaging agent, including in the United States a composition patent expiring in 2030 in the absence of any regulatory extension, and patent applications which, if granted, will expire in 2027 and in 2031 in the absence of any patent term adjustment or regulatory extensions. Additionally, we have patents and patent applications in numerous jurisdictions covering composition, use and manufacture of LMI 1174, our vascular remodeling imaging agent, including in the United States a composition and method of use patent expiring in 2031 in the absence of any regulatory extension, and patent applications which, if granted, will expire in 2029 and 2030 in the absence of any patent term adjustment or regulatory extensions. 

In addition to patents, we rely where necessary upon unpatented trade secrets and know-how, proprietary information and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our proprietary information, in part, using confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, consultants and other third parties and invention assignment agreements with our employees. These confidentiality agreements may not prevent unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, and we cannot assure you that an employee or an outside party will not make an unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets, other technical know-how or proprietary information. We may not have adequate monitoring abilities to discover, or adequate remedies for, any unauthorized disclosure. This might happen intentionally or inadvertently. It is possible that a competitor will make use of such information, and that our competitive position will be compromised, in spite of any legal action we might take against persons making such unauthorized disclosures. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our collaborators, employees and consultants use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 

In addition, we license a limited number of third party technologies and other intellectual property rights that are incorporated into some elements of our drug discovery and development efforts. These licenses are not material to our business, and the technologies can be obtained from multiple sources. We are currently party to separate royalty-free, non-exclusive, cross-licenses with each of Bracco, GE Healthcare and Imcor 

&#160;

Pharmaceutical Company. These cross-licenses give us freedom to operate in connection with contrast enhanced ultrasound imaging technology. We also in-license certain freedom to operate rights for Ablavar from, among others, Bayer. 

Regulatory Matters 

Food and Drug Laws 

The development, manufacture and commercialization of our agents and products are subject to comprehensive governmental regulation both within and outside the United States. A number of factors substantially increase the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly developed and existing products. These factors include governmental regulation, such as detailed inspection of and controls over research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, manufacturing, marketing, sampling, distribution, import and export, record keeping and storage and disposal practices, together with various post-marketing requirements. Governmental regulatory actions can result in the seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale as well as other civil or criminal sanctions. 

Our activities in the development, manufacture, packaging or repackaging of our pharmaceutical and medical device products subjects us to a wide variety of laws and regulations. We are required to register for permits and/or licenses with, seek approvals from and comply with operating and security standards of the FDA, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or the NRC, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or the HHS, Health Canada, the European Medicines Agency, or the EMA, the U.K. Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, or MHRA, the CFDA and various state and provincial boards of pharmacy, state and provincial controlled substance agencies, state and provincial health departments and/or comparable state and provincial agencies, as well as foreign agencies, and certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale. 

The FDA and various state regulatory authorities regulate the research, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, premarket approval, marketing, advertising and promotion, import and export and sales and distribution of pharmaceutical products in the United States. Prior to marketing a pharmaceutical product, we must first receive FDA approval. Specifically, in the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implementing regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and compliance with appropriate federal, state, local, and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Currently, the process required by the FDA before a drug product may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies according to Good Laboratory Practices regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an IND which must become effective before human clinical studies may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical studies according to Good Clinical Practices and other requirements, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for its intended use; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of a New Drug Application, or NDA, for a new drug; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the drug product is produced to assess compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs, regulations; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA. &#160;

The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that any approvals for our agents in development will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Once a pharmaceutical agent is identified for development, it enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity, formulation, and stability, as well as animal studies to assess its potential safety and efficacy. This testing culminates in the submission of the IND to the FDA. 

Once the IND becomes effective, the clinical trial program may begin. Each new clinical trial protocol must be submitted to the FDA before the study may begin. Human clinical studies are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: 

Phase 1. The agent is initially introduced into healthy human subjects and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases, especially when the agent may be too inherently toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients with those diseases. 

Phase 2. Involves studies in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the agent for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage and schedule. 

Phase 3. Clinical studies are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. These studies are intended to collect sufficient safety and effectiveness data to support the NDA for FDA approval. 

Clinical trial sponsors may request an SPA from the FDA. The FDA&#146;s SPA process creates a written agreement between the sponsoring company and the FDA regarding the clinical trial design and other clinical trial issues that can be used to support approval of an agent. The SPA is intended to provide assurance that, if the agreed-upon clinical trial protocols are followed and the trial endpoints are achieved, then the data may serve as the primary basis for an efficacy claim in support of an NDA. However, the SPA agreement is not a guarantee of an approval of an agent or any permissible claims about the agent. In particular, the SPA is not binding on the FDA if public health concerns become evident that are unrecognized at the time that the SPA agreement is entered into, other new scientific concerns regarding product safety or efficacy arise, or if the clinical trial sponsor fails to comply with the agreed upon clinical trial protocols. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical studies must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and safety reports must be submitted to the FDA and the investigators for serious and unexpected adverse events. Submissions must also be made to inform the FDA of certain changes to the clinical trial protocol. Federal law also requires the sponsor to register the trials on public databases when they are initiated, and to disclose the results of the trials on public databases upon completion. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the clinical trial sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical study at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, any institutional review board, or IRB, serving any of the institutions participating in the clinical trial can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical study at a relevant institution if the clinical study is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the agent has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. Failure to register a clinical trial or disclose study results within the required time periods could result in penalties, including civil monetary penalties. 

Concurrent with clinical studies, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the product and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the agent and, among other things, the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the agent does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

&#160;

The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the drug product, proposed labeling, and other relevant information, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA for a new drug, requesting approval to market the agent. The submission of an NDA is subject to the payment of a substantial user fee, pursuant to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, which was first enacted in 1992 to provide the FDA with additional resources to speed the review of important new medicines. A waiver of that fee may be obtained under certain limited circumstances. PDUFA expires every five years and must be reauthorized by Congress. The current version of PDUFA, the fifth reauthorization, or PDUFA V, was renewed as Title I of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act in 2012 and is scheduled to expire in 2017. PDUFA V focuses on improving the efficiency and predictability of the review process, strengthening the agency regulatory science base and enhancing benefit-risk assessment and post-approval safety surveillance. The next reauthorization of PDUFA in 2017 may bring changes or additions to regulatory requirements for drugs and medical devices regulated under the FDCA. In addition, both the U.S. House of Representatives, under the 21 st Century Cures bill which passed the House in 2015, and the Senate, under several proposals collectively referred to as Innovations for Healthier Americans, are currently considering legislation that may change regulatory requirements for drugs and medical devices in the future. It is uncertain, however, whether or when any changes or additions to regulatory requirements for drugs or medical devices would be enacted. 

The approval process is lengthy and difficult and the FDA may refuse to approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied. The FDA has substantial discretion in the product approval process, and it is impossible to predict with any certainty whether and when the FDA will grant marketing approval. The FDA may on occasion require the sponsor of an NDA to conduct additional clinical studies or to provide other scientific or technical information about the product, and these additional requirements may lead to unanticipated delay or expense. Even if such data and information are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data obtained from clinical studies are not always conclusive, and the FDA may interpret data differently than we interpret the same data. 

If a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling. In addition, the FDA may require Phase 4 testing which involves clinical studies designed to further assess a drug product&#146;s safety and effectiveness after NDA approval. The FDA also may impose a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, to ensure that the benefits of a product outweigh its risks. A REMS could add training requirements for healthcare professionals, safety communications efforts and limits on channels of distribution, among other things. The sponsor would be required to evaluate and monitor the various REMS activities and adjust them if need be. Whether a REMS would be imposed on any of our products and any resulting financial impact is uncertain at this time. 

Any drug products for which we receive FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences with the product, providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information, product sampling and distribution requirements, complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements, and complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements. The FDA strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion and other types of information on products that are placed on the market. Drugs may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label and promotional claims must be appropriately balanced with important safety information and otherwise be adequately substantiated. Further, manufacturers of drugs must continue to comply with cGMP requirements, which are extensive and require considerable time, resources and ongoing investment to ensure compliance. In addition, changes to the manufacturing process generally require prior FDA approval before being implemented, and other types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications and additional labeling claims, are also subject to further FDA review and approval. 

&#160;

Drug product manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacturing and distribution of approved drugs products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain other agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws. The cGMP requirements apply to all stages of the manufacturing process, including the production, processing, sterilization, packaging, labeling, storage and shipment of the drug product. Manufacturers must establish validated systems to ensure that products meet specifications and regulatory standards, and test each product batch or lot prior to its release. In addition, manufacturers of commercial PET products, including radiopharmacies, hospitals and academic medical centers, are required to submit either an NDA or Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, in order to produce PET drugs for clinical use, or produce the drugs under an IND. 

The FDA also regulates the preclinical and clinical testing, design, manufacture, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record keeping, sales and distribution, postmarket adverse event reporting, import/export and advertising and promotion of any medical devices that we distribute pursuant to the FDCA and FDA&#146;s implementing regulations. The Federal Trade Commission shares jurisdiction with the FDA over the promotion and advertising of certain medical devices. The FDA can also impose restrictions on the sale, distribution or use of medical devices at the time of their clearance or approval, or subsequent to marketing. Currently, two medical devices, both of which are manufactured by third parties which hold the product clearances, comprise only a small portion of our revenues. 

The FDA may withdraw marketing authorization for a pharmaceutical or medical device product if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, the failure to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements may result in administrative or judicial actions, such as fines, civil monetary penalties, warning letters, holds on clinical studies, product recalls or seizures, product detention or refusal to permit the import or export of pharmaceuticals or medical device products, refusal to approve pending applications or supplements, restrictions on marketing or manufacturing, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties. 

Because our operations include nuclear pharmacies and related businesses, such as cyclotron facilities used to produce PET products used in diagnostic medical imaging, we are subject to regulation by the NRC or the departments of health of each state in which we operate and the applicable state boards of pharmacy. In addition, the FDA is also involved in the regulation of cyclotron facilities where PET products are produced in compliance with cGMP requirements and United States Pharmacopeia requirements for PET drug compounding. 

Drug laws also are in effect in many of the non-U.S. markets in which we conduct business. These laws range from comprehensive drug approval requirements to requests for product data or certifications. In addition, inspection of and controls over manufacturing, as well as monitoring of adverse events, are components of most of these regulatory systems. Most of our business is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation. The exercise of broad regulatory powers by the FDA continues to result in increases in the amount of testing and documentation required for approval or clearance of new drugs and devices, all of which add to the expense of product introduction. Similar trends also are evident in major non-U.S. markets, including Canada, the European Union, Australia and Japan. 

To assess and facilitate compliance with applicable FDA, the NRC and other state, federal and foreign regulatory requirements, we regularly review our quality systems to assess their effectiveness and identify areas for improvement. As part of our quality review, we perform assessments of our suppliers of the raw materials that are incorporated into products and conduct quality management reviews designed to inform management of key issues that may affect the quality of our products. From time to time, we may determine that products we manufactured or marketed do not meet our specifications, published standards, such as those issued by the International Standards Organization, or regulatory requirements. When a quality or regulatory issue is identified, 

&#160;

we investigate the issue and take appropriate corrective action, such as withdrawal of the product from the market, correction of the product at the customer location, notice to the customer of revised labeling and other actions. 

Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 

The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, added two pathways for FDA drug approval. First, the Hatch-Waxman Act permits the FDA to approve ANDAs for generic versions of drugs if the ANDA applicant demonstrates, among other things, that its product is bioequivalent to the innovator product and provides relevant chemistry, manufacturing and product data. Second, the Hatch-Waxman Act created what is known as a Section 505(b)(2) NDA, which requires the same information as a full NDA (known as a Section 505(b)(1) NDA), including full reports of clinical and preclinical studies but allows some of the information from the reports required for marketing approval to come from studies which the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference. A Section 505(b)(2) NDA permits a manufacturer to obtain marketing approval for a drug without needing to conduct or obtain a right of reference for all of the required studies. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides for: (1) restoration of a portion of a product&#146;s patent term that was lost during clinical development and application review by the FDA; and (2) statutory protection, known as exclusivity, against the FDA&#146;s acceptance or approval of certain competitor applications. 

Patent term extension can compensate for time lost during product development and the regulatory review process by returning up to five years of patent life for a patent that covers a new product or its use. This period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application. Patent term extensions, however, are subject to a maximum extension of five years, and the patent term extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years. The application for patent term extension is subject to approval by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in conjunction with the FDA. 

The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides for a period of statutory protection for new drugs that receive NDA approval from the FDA. If the FDA approves a Section 505(b)(1) NDA for a new drug that is a new chemical entity, meaning that the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing any same active moiety, then the Hatch-Waxman Act prohibits the submission or approval of an ANDA or a Section 505(b)(2) NDA for a period of five years from the date of approval of the NDA, except that the FDA may accept an application for review after four years under certain circumstances. The Hatch-Waxman Act will not prevent the filing or approval of a full NDA, as opposed to an ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) NDA, for any drug, but the competitor would be required to conduct its own clinical trials, and any use of the drug for which marketing approval is sought could not violate another NDA holder&#146;s patent claims. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides for a three-year period of exclusivity for an NDA for a new drug containing an active moiety that was previously approved by the FDA, but also includes new clinical data (other than bioavailability and bioequivalence studies) to support an innovation over the previously approved drug and those studies were conducted or sponsored by the applicant and were essential to approval of the application. This three-year exclusivity period does not prohibit the FDA from accepting an application from a third party for a drug with that same innovation, but it does prohibit the FDA from approving that application for the three year period. The three year exclusivity does not prohibit the FDA, with limited exceptions, from approving generic drugs containing the same active ingredient but without the new innovation. 

&#160;

Healthcare Reform Act and Related Laws 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the Healthcare Reform Act, substantially changes the way in which healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and has a significant impact on the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that affect coverage and reimbursement of drug products and the medical imaging procedures in which our drug products are used. Key provisions include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; significantly increasing the presumed utilization rate for imaging equipment costing $1 million or more in the physician office and free-standing imaging facility setting which reduces the Medicare per procedure medical imaging reimbursement; subsequent legislation further increased the presumed utilization rate effective January 1, 2014; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; increasing drug rebates paid to state Medicaid programs under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program for brand name prescription drugs and extending those rebates to Medicaid managed care organizations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; imposing a non-deductible annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell brand name prescription drugs to specified federal government programs; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; imposing an excise tax on the sale of taxable medical device, to be paid by the entity that manufactures or imports the device: the tax applied to applicable sales made from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2015, has been suspended for 2016 and 2017, but is scheduled to be reapplied starting January 1, 2018. The Healthcare Reform Act also establishes an Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, to reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending by proposing changes to Medicare payments if expenditures exceed certain targets. A proposal made by the IPAB must be implemented by CMS, unless Congress adopts a proposal that achieves the necessary savings. IPAB proposals may impact payments for physician and free-standing imaging services beginning in 2015 and for hospital services beginning in 2020. The threshold for triggering IPAB proposals has not been reached, so no adjustments will be made under the IPAB until 2018 (at the earliest). 

The Healthcare Reform Act also amended the federal self-referral laws, requiring referring physicians to inform patients under certain circumstances that the patients may obtain services, including MRI, computed tomography, or CT, PET and certain other diagnostic imaging services, from a provider other than that physician, another physician in his or her group practice, or another individual under direct supervision of the physician or another physician in the group practice. The referring physician must provide each patient with a written list of other suppliers who furnish those services in the area in which the patient resides. These new requirements could have the effect of shifting where certain diagnostic medical imaging procedures are performed. 

In addition, the Budget Control Act of 2011 includes provisions to reduce the federal deficit. The Budget Control Act, as amended, resulted in the imposition of 2% reductions to Medicare (but not Medicaid) payments to providers beginning in April 2013. More recent legislation extends reductions through 2025 and front loads the cuts in 2025 to the first half of the year. 

The Healthcare Reform Act has been subject to political and judicial challenges. In 2012, the Supreme Court considered the constitutionality of certain provisions of the law. The Supreme Court upheld as constitutional the mandate for individuals to obtain health insurance, but held the provision allowing the federal government to withhold certain Medicaid funds to states that do not expand state Medicaid programs unconstitutional. Therefore, not all states have expanded their Medicaid programs under the Healthcare Reform Act. Political and judicial challenges to the law have continued in the wake of the Court&#146;s ruling. 

&#160;

Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws 

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by crime or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, and/or exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Federal and state authorities are paying increased attention to enforcement of these laws within the pharmaceutical industry, and private individuals have been active in alleging violations of the laws and brining suits on behalf of the government under the federal False Claims Act, or FCA. Violations of international fraud and abuse laws could result in similar penalties, including exclusion from participation in health programs outside the United States. If we were subject to allegations concerning, or were convicted of violating, these laws, our business could be harmed. 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute generally prohibits, among other things, a pharmaceutical manufacturer from directly or indirectly soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration in cash or in kind where one purpose is either to induce the referral of an individual for, or the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is payable by a federal health care program, including Medicare or Medicaid. Violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute can result in exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs as well as civil and criminal fines and penalties of up to $50,000 per violation and three times the amount of the unlawful remuneration. The majority of states also have anti-kickback, false claims, and similar fraud and abuse laws and although the specific provisions of these laws vary, their scope is generally broad, and there may not be regulations, guidance or court decisions that apply the laws to particular industry practices. There is therefore a possibility that our practices might be challenged under the anti-kickback statutes or similar laws. 

Federal and state false claims laws generally prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly, among other activities, presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for drugs or services that are false or fraudulent (which may include claims for services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary services). False or fraudulent claims for purposes of the FCA carry fines and civil penalties for violations ranging from $5,500 to $11,000 for each false claim, plus up to three times the amount of damages sustained by the federal government and, most critically, may provide the basis for exclusion from federally funded healthcare programs. There is also a criminal FCA statute by which individuals or entities that submit false claims can face criminal penalties. In addition, under the federal Civil Monetary Penalty Law, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General has the authority to exclude from participation in federal health care programs or to impose civil penalties against any person who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, certain false or otherwise improper claims. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. 

Laws and regulations have also been enacted by the federal government and various states to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers. The laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and health care providers; require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry&#146;s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the U.S. federal government; and/or require disclosure to the government and/or public of financial interactions (so-called &#147;sunshine laws&#148;). Recent scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing practices by certain companies may lead to changes in laws that currently allow substantial flexibility in pricing decisions by pharmaceutical manufacturers. Such changes could occur at the federal level or state level and may be adopted by statute, rule, or sub-regulatory policies. State laws may also require disclosure of pharmaceutical pricing information and marketing expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements or require administrative guidance for implementation. Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent federal and state laws and regulations. 

&#160;

Other Healthcare Laws 

Our operations may be affected by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and its implementing regulations, or HITECH, which impose obligations on certain &#147;covered entities&#148; (healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses) and certain of their &#147;business associate&#148; contractors with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Although we believe that we are neither a &#147;covered entity&#148; nor a &#147;business associate&#148; under the legislation, a business associate relationship may be imputed from facts and circumstances even in the absence of an actual business associate agreement. In addition, HIPAA and HITECH may affect our interactions with customers who are covered entities or their business associates. 

Laws Relating to Foreign Trade 

We are subject to various federal and foreign laws that govern our international business practices with respect to payments to government officials. Those laws include the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or to otherwise obtain favorable treatment or influence a person working in an official capacity. In many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the FCPA&#146;s definition of a foreign government official. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. 

Those laws also include the U.K. Bribery Act, or the Bribery Act, which proscribes giving and receiving bribes in the public and private sectors, bribing a foreign public official, and failing to have adequate procedures to prevent employees and other agents from giving bribes. U.S. companies that conduct business in the United Kingdom generally will be subject to the Bribery Act. Penalties under the Bribery Act include potentially unlimited fines for companies and criminal sanctions for corporate officers under certain circumstances. 

Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. Our operations reach many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. 

Health and Safety Laws 

We are also subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations, both in the United States and abroad, relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use, transportation and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. 

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, human health and safety in the United States and in other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our operations, like those of other medical product companies, involve the transport, use, handling, storage, exposure to and disposal of materials and wastes regulated under environmental laws, including hazardous and radioactive materials and wastes. If we violate these laws and regulations, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We believe that our operations currently comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. See &#147;Item 1A&#151;Risk Factors&#151;We use hazardous materials in our business and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive.&#148; 

&#160;

Certain environmental laws and regulations assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials or wastes at those formerly owned or operated properties or at third party properties at which they have disposed of hazardous materials or wastes. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury, property damage or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials or wastes. We currently are not party to any claims or any obligations to investigate or remediate contamination at any of our facilities. 

We are required to maintain a number of environmental permits and nuclear licenses for our North Billerica facility, which is our primary manufacturing, packaging and distribution facility. In particular, we must maintain a nuclear byproducts materials license issued by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. This license requires that we provide financial assurance demonstrating our ability to cover the cost of decommissioning and decontaminating, or D&#38;D, the Billerica site at the end of its use as a nuclear facility. As of December 31, 2015, we currently estimate the D&#38;D cost at the Billerica site to be approximately $26.2 million. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, we have a liability recorded associated with the fair value of the asset retirement obligations of approximately $8.1 million and $7.4 million, respectively. We have recorded accretion expense of $0.7 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We currently provide this financial assurance in the form of surety bonds. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of wastes generated by our operations. Prior to disposal, we store any low level radioactive waste at our facilities until the materials are no longer considered radioactive, as allowed by our licenses and permits. 

Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection, health and safety laws and regulations will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. While it is not feasible to predict the future costs of ongoing environmental compliance, it is possible that there will be a need for future provisions for environmental costs that, in management&#146;s opinion, are not likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, but could be material to the results of operations in any one accounting period. 

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016, we had 474 employees, of which 406 were located in the United States and 68 were located internationally, and approximately 5 contractors. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit, and we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. 

Corporate History 

Founded in 1956 as New England Nuclear Corporation, our medical imaging diagnostic business was purchased by DuPont in 1981. BMS subsequently acquired our diagnostic medical imaging business as part of its acquisition of DuPont Pharmaceuticals in 2001. Avista acquired our medical imaging business from BMS in January 2008. On June 30, 2015, the Company completed an initial public offering, or IPO, of its common stock at a price to the public of $6.00 per share. The Company&#146;s common stock is now traded on the NASDAQ under the symbol &#147;LNTH&#148;. 

Available information 

The Company maintains a global internet site at www.lantheus.com. The Company makes available on its website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act 

&#160;

of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to the SEC. The Company&#146;s reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available on the SEC&#146;s website at www.sec.gov in a document, and for Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, in an XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) format. XBRL is an electronic coding language to create an interactive financial statement data over the internet. The information on the Company&#146;s website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

