 ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are the fourth-largest radio broadcasting company in the United States with a portfolio of 125 radio stations in 27 top markets across the country. We were organized in 1968 as a Pennsylvania corporation. 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy focuses on providing compelling content in the communities we serve to enable us to offer our advertisers an effective marketing platform to reach a large targeted local audience. The principal components of our strategy are to: (i) focus on creating effective integrated marketing solutions for our customers that incorporate our audio, digital and experiential assets; (ii) build strongly-branded radio stations with highly compelling content; (iii) develop market leading station clusters; and (iv) recruit, develop, motivate and retain superior employees. 

Source Of Revenue 

The primary source of revenue for our radio stations is the sale of advertising time to local, regional and national advertisers and national network advertisers who purchase spot commercials in varying lengths. A growing source of revenue is from station-related digital platforms, which allow for enhanced audience interaction and participation, and integrated digital advertising solutions. A station&#146;s local sales staff generates the majority of its local and regional advertising sales through direct solicitations of local advertising agencies and businesses. We retain a national representation firm to sell to advertisers outside of our local markets. 

Our stations are typically classified by their format, such as news, sports, talk, classic rock, adult contemporary, alternative and country, among others. A station&#146;s format enables it to target specific segments of listeners sharing certain demographics. Advertisers and stations use data published by audience measuring services to estimate how many people within particular geographical markets and demographics listen to specific stations. Our geographically and demographically diverse portfolio of radio stations allows us to deliver targeted messages to specific audiences for advertisers on a local, regional and national basis. 

Competition 

The radio broadcasting industry is highly competitive. Our stations compete for listeners and advertising revenue with other radio stations within their respective markets. In addition, our stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues with other media including: broadcast television, digital, satellite radio, satellite and cable television, newspapers and magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail, yellow pages, wireless media alternatives, cellular phones and other forms of audio entertainment and advertisement. 

Federal Regulation Of Radio Broadcasting 

Overview . The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing government regulation of, among other things, ownership limitations, program content, advertising content, technical operations and business and employment practices. The ownership, operation and sale of radio stations are subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Communications Commission (the &#147;FCC&#148;) pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the &#147;Communications Act&#148;). 

The following is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act and of certain specific FCC regulations and policies. This summary is not a comprehensive listing of all of the regulations and policies affecting radio stations. For further information concerning the nature and extent of federal regulation of radio stations, you should refer to the Communications Act, FCC rules and FCC public notices and rulings. 

FCC Licenses . The operation of a radio broadcast station requires a license from the FCC. Certain of our subsidiaries hold the FCC licenses for our stations. The total number of radio stations that can simultaneously operate in any given area or market is limited by the amount of spectrum allotted by the FCC within the AM and FM radio bands, and by station-to-station interference within those bands. While there are no national station ownership caps, FCC rules do limit the number of stations within the same market that a single individual or entity may own or control. 

The total number of stations authorized to operate in a local market may fluctuate from time to time, and the number of stations that can be owned by a single individual or entity in a given market can therefore vary over time. Once the FCC approves the ownership of a cluster of stations in a market, that owner may continue to hold those 

&#160;

stations under &#147;grandfathering&#148; policies, despite a decrease in the number of stations in the market. A few of our market clusters, such as our stations in Greenville and Wilkes-Barre/Scranton, are considered to be &#147;grandfathered.&#148; If, at the time of a proposed future transaction, a cluster does not comply with the multiple ownership limitations based upon the number of stations then present in the market, the entire cluster cannot be transferred intact to a single party unless the purchaser qualifies as an &#147;eligible entity&#148; under specified small business standards and meets certain control tests. 

Ownership Rules. The FCC sets limits on the number of broadcast stations (including both radio and TV) an entity may permissibly own within a market, as well as limits on the common ownership of broadcast stations and newspapers. Same-market FCC numeric ownership limitations are based: (i) on markets as defined and rated by Nielsen Audio; and (ii) in areas outside of Nielsen Audio markets, on markets ass determined by overlap of specified signal contours. 

Ownership Attribution. In applying its ownership limitations, the FCC generally considers only &#147;attributable&#148; ownership interests. Attributable interests generally include: (i) equity and debt interests which when combined exceed 33% of a licensee&#146;s or other media entity&#146;s total asset value, if the interest holder supplies more than 15% of a station&#146;s total weekly programming or has an attributable interest in any same-market media (television, radio, cable or newspaper), with a higher threshold in the case of investments in certain &#147;eligible entities&#148; acquiring broadcast stations; (ii) a 5% or greater direct or indirect voting stock interest, including certain interests held in trust, unless the holder is a qualified passive investor, in which case the threshold is a 20% or greater voting stock interest; (iii) any equity interest in a limited liability company or a partnership, including a limited partnership, unless properly &#147;insulated&#148; from management activities; and (iv) any position as an officer or director of a licensee or of its direct or indirect parent. In our case, where there is a &#147;single majority voting shareholder,&#148; the FCC treats as non-attributable voting stock interests held by non-single majority owners, even if they are in excess of the five percent standard described above. 

Alien Ownership Rules. The Communications Act prohibits the issuance to, or holding of broadcast licenses by, foreign governments or aliens, non-U.S. citizens, whether individuals or entities, including any interest in a corporation which holds a broadcast license if more than 20% of the licensee&#146;s capital stock is owned or voted by aliens. In addition, the FCC may prohibit any corporation from holding a broadcast license if the corporation is directly or indirectly controlled by any other corporation of which more than 25% of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens if the FCC finds that the prohibition is in the public interest. The Communications Act gives the FCC discretion to allow greater amounts of alien ownership. The FCC considers investment proposals from international companies or individuals on a case-by-case basis. 

License Renewal. Radio station licenses issued by the FCC are renewable ordinarily for an eight-year term. Seven of our FCC radio station license renewal applications filed in the most recent 2011-2014 renewal application window have not yet been granted. For five of those seven stations, license renewal applications filed during the prior 2003-2006 renewal application window have also not yet been granted. A station may continue to operate beyond the expiration date of its license if a timely filed license renewal application is pending. 

The FCC is required to renew a broadcast station&#146;s license if the FCC finds that the station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the FCC&#146;s rules and regulations; and there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the FCC&#146;s rules and regulations that, taken together, constitute a pattern of abuse. If a challenge is filed against a renewal application, and, as a result of an evidentiary hearing, the FCC determines that the licensee has failed to meet certain fundamental requirements and that no mitigating factors justify the imposition of a lesser sanction, the FCC may deny a license renewal application. Historically, FCC licenses have generally been renewed. 

Petitions to deny renewal applications are filed from time to time. Several petitions have been filed against us. Subject to the resolution of open FCC inquiries, we believe that our licenses will be renewed and that continuing challenges to already granted renewals will be resolved favorably to us, although there can be no assurance to that effect. The non-renewal of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Transfer Or Assignment Of Licenses. The Communications Act prohibits the assignment of broadcast licenses or the transfer of control of a broadcast licensee without the prior approval of the FCC. In determining whether to grant such approval, the FCC considers a number of factors pertaining to the existing licensee and the proposed licensee, including: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; compliance with the various rules limiting common ownership of media properties in a given market; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the &#147;character&#148; of the proposed licensee; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; compliance with the Communications Act&#146;s limitations on alien ownership as well as general compliance with FCC regulations and policies. To obtain FCC consent for the assignment or transfer of control of a broadcast license, appropriate applications must be filed with the FCC. Interested parties may file objections or petitions to deny such applications. 

Programming And Operation . The Communications Act requires broadcasters to serve the &#147;public interest.&#148; A licensee is required to present programming that is responsive to issues in the station&#146;s community of license and to maintain records demonstrating this responsiveness. The FCC regulates, among other things, political advertising; sponsorship identification; the advertisement of contests and lotteries; the conduct of station-run contests; obscene, indecent and profane broadcasts; certain employment practices; and certain technical operation requirements, including limits on human exposure to radio-frequency radiation. The FCC considers complaints from listeners concerning a station&#146;s public service programming, employment practices, or other operational issues when processing a renewal application filed by a station, but the FCC may consider complaints at any time and may impose fines or take other action for violations of the FCC&#146;s rules separate from its action on a renewal application. 

FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time as well as the broadcast, between the hours of 6 am and 10 pm, of material it considers &#147;indecent&#148; or &#147;profane&#148;. The FCC has historically enforced licensee compliance in this area through the assessment of monetary forfeitures. Such forfeitures may include: (i) imposition of the maximum authorized fine for egregious cases ($350,000 for a single violation, up to a maximum of $3,300,000 for a continuing violation); and (ii) imposition of fines on a per utterance basis instead of a single fine for an entire program. There are a number of outstanding indecency proceedings in which we are defending our stations&#146; conduct, and there may be other complaints of this nature which have been submitted to the FCC of which we have not yet been notified. 

Certain FCC rules regulate the conduct of on-air station contests, requiring in general that the material rules and terms of the contest be broadcast periodically or posted online and that the contest be conducted substantially as announced. The FCC has a pending investigation into a contest at one of our stations. See Part I, Item 3, &#147;Legal Proceedings,&#148; for further discussion. 

Enforcement Authority . The FCC has the power to impose penalties for violations of its rules under the Communications Act, including the imposition of monetary fines, the issuance of short-term licenses, the imposition of a condition on the renewal of a license, the denial of authority to acquire new stations, and the revocation of operating authority. The maximum fine for a single violation of the FCC&#146;s rules (other than indecency rules &#150; see discussion above) is currently $37,500. 

Proposed And Recent Changes . Congress, the FCC and other federal agencies are considering or may in the future consider and adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could: (1) affect, directly or indirectly, the operation, ownership and profitability of our radio stations; (2) result in the loss of audience share and advertising revenues for our radio stations; and (3) affect our ability to acquire additional radio stations or to finance those acquisitions. 

Federal Antitrust Laws. The federal agencies responsible for enforcing the federal antitrust laws, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice, may investigate certain acquisitions. For an acquisition meeting certain size thresholds, the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 requires the parties to file Notification and Report Forms with the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice and to observe specified waiting-period requirements before consummating the acquisition. 

HD Radio 

AM and FM radio stations may use the FCC selected In-Band On-Channel (&#147;IBOC&#148;) as the exclusive technology for terrestrial digital operations. IBOC, developed by iBiquity Digital Corporation, is also known as &#147;HD Radio.&#148; 

HD Radio technology permits a station to transmit radio programming in digital format. We currently use HD Radio digital technology on most of our FM stations. The advantages of digital audio broadcasting over traditional analog broadcasting technology include improved sound quality, the availability of additional channels and the ability to offer a greater variety of auxiliary services. 

&#160;

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016, we had 1,608 full-time employees and 921 part-time employees. With respect to certain of our stations in our Kansas City and San Francisco markets, we are a party to collective bargaining agreements with the Screen Actors Guild - American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (known as SAG-AFTRA). Approximately ten employees are represented by these collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

Corporate Governance 

Code Of Business Conduct And Ethics. We have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to each of our employees including our principal executive officers and senior members of our finance department. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics can be found on the &#147;Investors&#148; sub-page of our website located at www.entercom.com/investors. 

Board Committee Charters. Each of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee has a committee charter as required by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. These committee charters can be found on the &#147;Investors&#148; sub-page of our website located at www.entercom.com/investors. 

Corporate Governance Guidelines. New York Stock Exchange rules require our Board of Directors to establish certain Corporate Governance Guidelines. These guidelines can be found on the &#147;Investors&#148; sub-page of our website located at www.entercom.com/investors. 

Environmental Compliance 

As the owner, lessee or operator of various real properties and facilities, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Historically, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business. 

Seasonality 

Seasonal revenue fluctuations are common in the radio broadcasting industry and are due primarily to fluctuations in advertising expenditures. Our revenues are typically lowest in the first calendar quarter. 

Internet Address And Internet Access To Periodic And Current Reports 

You can find more information about us that includes a list of our stations in each of our markets at our Internet website located at www.entercom.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are available free of charge through our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;). The contents of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. We will also provide a copy of our annual report on Form 10-K upon any written request. 

&#160;

