 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview

Shenandoah Telecommunications Company is a diversified telecommunications holding company that, through its operating subsidiaries, provides both regulated and unregulated telecommunications services to end-user customers and &#160; other telecommunications providers in Virginia, West Virginia, central Pennsylvania and western Maryland. The Company offers a comprehensive suite of voice, video and data communications services based on the products and services provided by the Company&#8217;s seven operating subsidiaries.

Pending Acquisition of nTelos and Related Transactions 

On August 10, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the &#8220;Merger Agreement&#8221;) with Gridiron Merger Sub, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary (&#8220;Merger Sub&#8221;), and NTELOS Holdings Corp. (&#8220;nTelos&#8221;), pursuant to which, subject to certain conditions, at the effective time of the Merger (as defined below), Merger Sub will merge with and into nTelos, with nTelos surviving the merger as our wholly-owned subsidiary (the &#8220;Merger&#8221;).

In connection with the Merger, on August 10, 2015, Shenandoah Personal Communications, LLC, our subsidiary (&#8220;PCS&#8221;), and SprintCom, Inc. (&#8220;SprintCom&#8221;), an affiliate of Sprint Corporation, entered into a Master Agreement (the &#8220;Master Agreement&#8221;) and, along with certain affiliates of Sprint Corporation, entered into Addendum XVIII to the Sprint PCS Management Agreement (the &#8220;Affiliate Addendum&#8221;). The closing of the transactions contemplated by the Master Agreement and the effectiveness of certain provisions of the Affiliate Addendum (the &#8220;Sprint Transactions&#8221;) will occur simultaneously with, and are conditioned upon, the consummation of the Merger.

We expect the Merger and the Sprint Transactions to close at the end of the first quarter, or the early part of the second quarter, of 2016. The description of the Company&#8217;s business set forth below reflects the operations of the Company prior to the completion of the Merger and the Sprint Transactions.

Operating Segments

The Company provides integrated voice, video and data communications services to end-user customers and other telecommunications providers. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker. The Company has three reportable segments: (1) Wireless, (2) Cable, and (3) Wireline; and a fourth segment, Other, which primarily consists of parent company activities.

Wireless Segment 

The business of the Wireless segment is conducted principally by the Company&#8217;s subsidiary, PCS. As a Sprint PCS Affiliate of Sprint Communications, Inc. (&#8220;Sprint&#8221;), this subsidiary provides digital wireless service to a portion of a four-state area extending from Harrisburg, York and Altoona, Pennsylvania, to Harrisonburg, Virginia. The Company&#8217;s Shenandoah Mobile, LLC subsidiary owns 158 towers overall, leases space on 153 towers to PCS and has 202 leases with other wireless communications providers at December 31, 2015.

&#160;

PCS has offered personal communications services through a digital wireless telephone and data network since 1995. In 1999, this subsidiary executed a Management Agreement with Sprint. The network, which utilizes code division multiple access, or CDMA, currently covers 269 miles of Interstates 81 and 83, and a 140 mile section of the Pennsylvania Turnpike between Pittsburgh and Philadelphia, as well as many of the communities near these routes. The Sprint Affiliate area includes approximately 2.4 million residents, and our network currently covers more than 91% of them. In early 2012, the Company amended its Management Agreement with Sprint in connection with the Company&#8217;s commitment to build a 4G LTE network in the Company&#8217;s service area. Under its agreements with Sprint, &#160; the Company is the exclusive provider of wireless mobility communications network products and services in the 800 megahertz (MHz), 1900 megahertz (MHz) and 2.5 gigahertz (GHz) spectrum ranges. The Company had 312,512 postpaid PCS customers at December 31, 2015, an increase of 8.6% compared to December 31, 2014. The Company had 142,840 prepaid wireless customers at December 31, 2015, a decrease of 1.6% compared to December 31, 2014. Of the Company&#8217;s total operating revenues, 56.3% in 2015, 58.5% in 2014 and 59.2% in 2013 were generated by or through Sprint and its customers using the Company's portion of Sprint&#8217;s nationwide PCS network. No other customer relationship generated more than 1.0% of the Company&#8217;s total operating revenues in 2015, 2014 or 2013. 

Under the Sprint agreements, Sprint provides the Company significant support services, such as customer service, billing, collections, long distance, national network operations support, inventory logistics support, use of the Sprint brand names, national advertising, national distribution and product development.

The Company records its postpaid PCS revenues, with the exception of certain roaming and equipment sales revenues, based on the net PCS revenues billed by Sprint, net of an 8% Management Fee and a Net Service Fee retained by Sprint. The Net Service Fee was 12.0% for 2011, 2012, and early 2013. Effective August 1, 2013, this fee increased to 14.0%, the maximum allowed at that time under the Sprint agreement. During 2015, effective January 1, 2016, the Company amended its agreements with Sprint in order to better allocate certain costs covered by the Net Service Fee. The Net Service Fee was reduced to 8.6%, and certain costs and revenues previously included within the Net Service Fee were broken out of the Net Service Fee and will be separately settled in the future. Separately settled revenues primarily consist of revenues associated with Sprint&#8217;s wholesale subscribers&#8217; use of our network and net travel revenue. In addition, the Company will be charged for the costs of subsidized handsets sold through Sprint&#8217;s national channels as well as commissions paid by Sprint to third-party resellers in our service territory. The Company does not expect this treatment to result in a significant change in wireless postpaid results, though it will increase both total revenue and total operating expenses. Net PCS revenues billed by Sprint consist of gross monthly recurring charges for service, net of both recurring and non-recurring customer credits, account write offs and other billing adjustments. Neither the Management Fee nor the Net Service Fee are deferred. 

Prepaid revenues are recorded net of a 6% Management Fee retained by Sprint. Sprint charges the Company separately to acquire and support prepaid customers. These charges are calculated based on Sprint&#8217;s national averages for its prepaid programs, and are billed per user or per gross additional customer, as appropriate. The customer acquisition costs include handset subsidies.

Cable Segment 

The business of the Company&#8217;s Cable segment is conducted through Shenandoah Cable Television, LLC (&#8220;Shenandoah Cable&#8221;). Shenandoah Cable provides video, voice and data services to customers in portions of Virginia, West Virginia and western Maryland, and leases fiber optic facilities throughout its service area. It does not include video, internet and voice services provided to customers in Shenandoah County, Virginia, which are included in the Wireline segment.

The Company has acquired several cable networks since 2008, and as of December 31, 2015, the Company has upgraded all of the markets acquired in these transactions in order to offer robust video, high speed data and telephone services throughout its territory. Most of these markets are connected by a fiber network of 2,844 miles, which interconnects with the Wireline segment&#8217;s 1,736 mile fiber network.

&#160;

There were 126,071 cable revenue generating units at December 31, 2015, an increase of 3.6% compared to December 31, 2014. A revenue generating unit consists of each separate service (video, voice and internet) subscribed to by a customer.

Wireline Segment 

The Wireline segment provides regulated and unregulated voice services, DSL internet access, and long distance access services throughout Shenandoah County and portions of Rockingham, Frederick, Warren and Augusta counties, Virginia. The segment also provides video services in portions of Shenandoah County, and leases fiber optic facilities throughout the northern Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, northern Virginia and adjacent areas along the Interstate 81 corridor through West Virginia, Maryland and portions of Pennsylvania.

The business of the Company&#8217;s Wireline segment is conducted primarily by its Shenandoah Telephone Company subsidiary. This subsidiary provides both regulated and unregulated telephone services and fiber optic facilities in Virginia, primarily throughout the Northern Shenandoah Valley.

Shenandoah Telephone Company provides local telephone services to 20,252 customers as of December 31, 2015, primarily in Shenandoah County and small service areas in Rockingham, Frederick, Warren, and Augusta counties in Virginia. This subsidiary provides access for interexchange carriers to the local exchange network and switching for voice products offered through the Cable segment. This subsidiary has a 20 percent ownership interest in Valley Network Partnership (&#8220;ValleyNet&#8221;), which offers fiber network facility capacity to business customers and other telecommunications providers in western, central, and northern Virginia, as well as the Interstate 81 corridor from Johnson City, Tennessee to Carlisle, Pennsylvania.

Shentel Cable of Shenandoah County, LLC was created as a new subsidiary of the Wireline segment in December 2013. The video services offered in Shenandoah County share much of the network which the regulated telephone company uses to serve its customers in addition to its own coaxial network. These services had previously been included in the Cable segment. The subsidiary provides video services to 5,356 customers and high speed data to 420 customers as of December 31, 2015.

The Wireline segment also includes Shentel Communications, LLC, which was created through the 2012 merger of four other of the Company&#8217;s Wireline subsidiaries into Shentel Communications, LLC. The following services are provided through this entity:

&#183; Internet access to customers in the northern Shenandoah Valley and surrounding areas. The Internet service has 12,666 digital subscriber line, or DSL, customers at December 31, 2015. DSL service is available to all customers in the Company&#8217;s regulated telephone service area. 

&#183; Operation of the Maryland, West Virginia and Pennsylvania portions of a fiber optic network along the Interstate 81 corridor. In conjunction with the telephone subsidiary, Shentel Communications, LLC is associated with the ValleyNet fiber optic network. Shentel Communications, LLC&#8217;s fiber network also extends south from Harrisonburg, Virginia, through Covington, Virginia, then westward to Charleston, West Virginia. This extension of the fiber network was acquired to connect to and support the Company&#8217;s cable business, and the provision of facility leases of fiber optic capacity to end users, in these areas. 

&#183; Resale of long distance service for calls placed to locations outside the regulated telephone service area by telephone customers. There were 9,476 long distance customers at December 31, 2015. 

&#160;

&#183; Facility leases of fiber optic capacity, owned by itself and affiliates, in surrounding counties and into Herndon, Virginia. 

Effective for the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company expanded its data offerings in its legacy telephone service area. Previously, the Company only offered DSL-based internet access, and a phone line was required to obtain this service. Under the new offerings, subscribers who have access to our video services (the video network overlaps a portion of our legacy telephone network) are able to purchase higher-speed internet packages over the coaxial cable network, while DSL subscribers who do not have access to our video network can purchase DSL for internet access, without having to purchase telephone service.

Other Segment 

The Other segment includes Shenandoah Telecommunications Company, which provides investing and management services to its subsidiaries.

Additional information concerning the Company&#8217;s operating segments is set forth in Note 14 of the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this report.

Competition

The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of the price, availability, reliability, variety and quality of our offerings and on the quality of our customer service. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to maintain high-quality services at prices competitive with those charged by our competitors. In particular, price competition in the integrated telecommunications services markets generally has been intense and is expected to increase. Our competitors include, among others, larger providers such as AT&#38;T Inc., Verizon Communications Inc., T-Mobile USA, Inc., U.S. Cellular Corp., CenturyLink, Inc., Frontier Communications Corp., DISH Network Corporation, DIRECTV, and various competitive service providers. The larger providers have substantially greater infrastructure, financial, personnel, technical, marketing and other resources, larger numbers of established customers and more prominent name recognition than the Company.

In markets where we provide video services, we also compete in the provision of telephone and high speed data services against the incumbent local telephone company. Incumbent carriers enjoy substantial competitive advantages arising from their historical monopoly position in the local telephone market, including pre-existing customer relationships with virtually all end-users. Wireless communications providers also are competing with wireline service providers, which further increases competition.

Competition is intense in the wireless communications industry. Competition has caused, and we anticipate that competition will continue to cause, the market prices for wireless products and services to decrease. This has resulted in some carriers introducing pricing plans that are structurally different and often more aggressively priced than in the past. Wireless providers are upgrading their wireless services to better accommodate real-time and downloadable audio and video content as well as Internet browsing capabilities and other services. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the wireless industry.

Competition is also intense and growing in the market for video services. Incumbent cable television companies, which have historically provided video service, face competition from direct broadcast satellite providers, on-line video services and from large wireline providers of telecommunications services (such as Verizon, Centurylink and AT&#38;T) which have upgraded their networks to provide video services in addition to voice and high-speed Internet access services. These entities are large and have substantially greater infrastructure, financial, personnel, technical, marketing and other resources, larger numbers of established customers and more prominent name recognition than the Company. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on the extent to which our service offerings overlap with these entities, and on our ability to anticipate and respond to the competitive forces affecting the market for video and other services.

&#160;

A continuing trend toward consolidation, mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances in the telecommunications industry could also increase the level of competition we face by further strengthening our competitors.

&#160; 

Regulation

Our operations are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (&#8220;FCC&#8221;), the Virginia State Corporation Commission (&#8220;VSCC&#8221;), the West Virginia Public Service Commission, the Maryland Public Service Commission, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission and other federal, state, and local governmental agencies. The laws governing these agencies, and the regulations and policies that they administer, are subject to constant review and revision, and some of these changes could have material impacts on our revenues and expenses.

Regulation of Wireless Operations 

We operate our wireless business using radio spectrum made available by Sprint under the Sprint management agreements. Our wireless business is directly or indirectly subject to, or affected by, a number of regulations and requirements of the FCC and other governmental authorities that apply to providers of commercial mobile radio services (&#8220;CMRS&#8221;).

Interconnection. Federal law and FCC regulations impose certain obligations on CMRS providers to interconnect their networks with other telecommunications providers (either directly or indirectly) and to enter into interconnection agreements (&#8220;ICAs&#8221;) with certain types of telecommunications providers. Interconnection agreements typically are negotiated on a statewide basis and are subject to state approval. If an agreement cannot be reached, parties to interconnection negotiations can submit unresolved issues to federal or state regulators for arbitration. In addition, FCC regulations previously required that local exchange carriers (&#8220;LECs&#8221;) and CMRS providers establish reciprocal compensation arrangements for the termination of traffic to one another. Disputes regarding intercarrier compensation can be brought in a number of forums (depending on the nature and jurisdiction of the dispute) including state public utility commissions (&#8220;PUCs&#8221;), FCC, and the courts. The Company does not presently have any material interconnection or intercarrier compensation disputes with respect to its wireless operations.

On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted a report and order which comprehensively reformed and modernized the agency&#8217;s intercarrier compensation (&#8220;ICC&#8221;) rules governing the telecommunications industry. Under the new FCC regime, effective December 29, 2011, local traffic between CMRS providers and most LECs must be compensated pursuant to a default bill-and-keep framework if there was no pre-existing agreement between the CMRS provider and the LEC. A federal appeals court has affirmed the FCC&#8217;s report and order, but a further appeal has been filed. Additionally, the FCC is considering a number of petitions for declaratory ruling and other proceedings regarding disputes among carriers relating to interconnection payment obligations. Resolution of these proceedings and any additional FCC rules regarding interconnection could directly affect us in the future. Interconnection costs represent a significant expense item for us and any significant changes in the intercarrier compensation scheme may have a material impact on our business. We are unable to determine with any certainty at this time whether any such changes would be beneficial to or detrimental to our wireless operations.

On December 18, 2014 the FCC issued a declaratory ruling which provides additional guidance concerning how the agency will evaluate the reasonableness of data roaming agreements. The agency clarified that it will consider the reasonableness of data roaming rates based upon, in part, whether such rates exceed retail, international and resale rates, as well as how such rates compare to other providers&#8217; rates. The ruling also clarifies other aspects of the FCC&#8217;s 2011 data roaming order concerning the appropriate presumptions applied to certain contract terms and the inclusion of build-out terms when considering the reasonableness of roaming rates and terms. The ruling is expected to provide improved negotiating leverage to Sprint, and other providers, in negotiating new data roaming agreements with AT&#38;T and Verizon. It is unclear whether such leverage will result in lower data roaming rates for Sprint, or whether such reduced rates will accrue to the benefit of our operations. There is also a possibility that the ruling could provide a basis for smaller wireless providers to seek more beneficial terms in their roaming agreements with Sprint, which may impact roaming costs in our territory.

&#160;

Universal Service Contribution Requirements. Consistent with the terms of our management agreements Sprint is required to contribute to the federal universal service fund (the &#8220;USF&#8221;) based in part on the revenues it receives in connection with our wireless operations. The purpose of this fund is to subsidize telecommunications and broadband services in rural areas, for low-income consumers, and for schools, libraries, and rural healthcare facilities. Sprint is permitted to, and does, pass through these mandated payments as surcharges paid by our customers.

Transfers, Assignments and Changes of Control of PCS Licenses . The FCC must give prior approval to the assignment of ownership or control of a PCS license, as well as transfers involving substantial changes in such ownership or control. The FCC also requires licensees to maintain effective working control over their licenses. Our agreements with Sprint reflect an alliance that the parties believe meets the FCC requirements for licensee control of licensed spectrum. If the FCC were to determine that the Sprint management agreements need to be modified to increase the level of licensee control, we have agreed with Sprint under the terms of our Sprint PCS agreements to use our best efforts to modify the agreements as necessary to cause the agreements to comply with applicable law and to preserve to the extent possible the economic arrangements set forth in the agreements. If the agreements cannot be modified, the agreements may be terminated pursuant to their terms. The FCC could also impose sanctions on the Company for failure to meet these requirements.

PCS licenses are granted for ten-year terms. Sprint&#8217;s PCS licenses for our service area are scheduled to expire on various dates between March 2016 and June 2025. Licensees have an expectation of license renewal if they have provided &#8220;substantial&#8221; service during its past license terms, and have &#8220;substantially&#8221; complied with FCC rules and policies, and with the Communications Act of 1934. All of the PCS licenses used in our wireless business have been successfully renewed since their initial grant.

Construction and Operation of Wireless Facilities. Wireless systems must comply with certain FCC and Federal Aviation Administration (&#8220;FAA&#8221;) regulations regarding the registration, siting, marking, lighting and construction of transmitter towers and antennas. The FCC also requires that aggregate radio frequency emissions from every site meet certain standards. These regulations affect site selection for new network build-outs and may increase the costs of improving our network. We cannot predict what impact the costs and delays from these regulations could have on our operations.

The FCC&#8217;s decision to authorize a proposed tower may also be subject to environmental review pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (&#8220;NEPA&#8221;), which requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impacts of their decisions under some circumstances. FCC regulations implementing NEPA place responsibility on each applicant to investigate any potential environmental effects of a proposed operation, including health effects relating to radio frequency emissions, and impacts on endangered species such as certain migratory birds, and to disclose any significant effects on the environment to the agency prior to commencing construction. Pursuant to FCC rules, the public is afforded an opportunity to comment on the environmental effects of a proposed antenna structure that requires registration with the FCC. The FCC may then determine if further environmental review is necessary. In the event that the FCC determines that a proposed tower would have a significant environmental impact, the FCC would require preparation of an environmental impact statement.

In addition, tower construction is subject to regulations implementing the National Historic Preservation Act. Compliance with FAA, environmental or historic preservation requirements could significantly delay or prevent the registration or construction of a particular tower or make tower construction more costly. In some jurisdictions, local laws or regulations may impose similar requirements.

&#160;

Wireless Facilities Siting . States and localities are authorized to engage in forms of regulation, including zoning and land-use regulation, which may affect our ability to select and modify sites for wireless facilities. States and localities may not engage in forms of regulation that effectively prohibit the provision of wireless services, discriminate among functionally equivalent services, or regulate the placement, construction or operation of wireless facilities on the basis of the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions. Courts and the FCC are routinely asked to review whether state and local zoning and land-use actions should be preempted by federal law, and the FCC also is routinely asked to consider other issues affecting wireless facilities siting in other proceedings. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the effect they may have on us.

&#160;

Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act. The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (&#8220;CALEA&#8221;) was enacted in 1994 to preserve electronic surveillance capabilities by law enforcement officials in the face of rapidly changing telecommunications technology. CALEA requires telecommunications carriers, including the Company, to modify their equipment, facilities, and services to allow for authorized electronic surveillance based on either industry or FCC standards. Following adoption of interim standards and a lengthy rulemaking proceeding, including an appeal and remand proceeding, all carriers were required to be in compliance with the CALEA requirements as of June 30, 2002. We are currently in compliance with the CALEA requirements.

Local Number Portability . All covered CMRS providers, including the Company, are required to allow wireless customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when switching from one telecommunications carrier to another. These rules are generally referred to as wireless local number portability (&#8220;LNP&#8221;). The future volume of any porting requests, and the processing costs related thereto, may increase our operating costs in the future. We are currently in compliance with LNP requirements. The FCC has selected a new Local Number Portability Administrator, and the transition to a new Local Number Portability Administrator may impact our ability to manage number porting and related tasks, or may result in additional costs related to the transition.

Number Pooling . The FCC regulates the assignment and use of telephone numbers by wireless and other telecommunications carriers to preserve numbering resources. CMRS providers in the top 100 markets are required to be capable of sharing blocks of 10,000 numbers among themselves in subsets of 1,000 numbers (&#8220;1000s-block number pooling&#8221;); the FCC considers state requests to implement 1000s-block number pooling in smaller markets on a case-by-case basis, and has granted such requests in the past. In addition, all CMRS carriers, including those operating outside the top 100 markets, must be able to support roaming calls on their network placed by users with pooled numbers. Wireless carriers must also maintain detailed records of the numbers they have used, subject to audit. The pooling requirements may impose additional costs and increase operating expenses on us and limit our access to numbering resources. We are currently in compliance with the FCC number pooling requirements.

Telecommunications Relay Services (&#8220;TRS&#8221;). Federal law requires wireless service providers to take steps to enable the hearing impaired and other disabled persons to have reasonable access to wireless services. The FCC has adopted rules and regulations implementing this requirement to which we are subject, and requires that we pay a regulatory assessment to support such telecommunications relay services for the disabled. The Company is in compliance with these requirements.

Consumer Privacy. The Company is subject to various federal and state laws intended to protect the privacy of end-users who subscribe to the Company&#8217;s services. For example, the FCC has regulations that place restrictions on the permissible uses that we can make of customer-specific information, known as Customer Proprietary Network Information (&#8220;CPNI&#8221;), received from subscribers, and that govern procedures for release of such information in order to prevent identity theft schemes. Other laws impose criminal and other penalties for the violation of certain CPNI requirements and related privacy protections. In addition, as explained below, the FCC has determined that broadband Internet access services are subject to the statutory protections afforded to CPNI, although the agency has not yet implemented specific regulations to that effect.

&#160;

Our operations are also subject to federal and state laws governing information security. In the event of an information security breach, such rules may require consumer and government agency notification and may result in regulatory enforcement actions with the potential of monetary forfeitures.

In addition, restrictions exist, and new restrictions are considered from time to time by Congress, federal agencies and states, on the extent to which wireless customers may receive unsolicited telemarketing calls, text messages, junk e-mail or spam. Congress, federal agencies and certain states also are considering, and may in the future consider imposing, additional requirements on entities that possess consumer information to protect the privacy of consumers. The Company is required to file an annual certification of compliance with the FCC&#8217;s CPNI rules. Complying with these requirements may impose costs on us or compel us to alter the way we provide or promote our services.

Consumer Protection . Many members of the wireless industry, including us, have voluntarily committed to comply with the CTIA Consumer Code for Wireless Service, which includes consumer protection provisions regarding the content and format of bills; advance disclosures regarding rates, terms of service, contract provisions, and network coverage; and the right to terminate service after a trial period or after changes to contract provisions are implemented. The FCC and/or some state commissions have considered or are considering imposing additional consumer protection requirements upon wireless service providers, including billing-related disclosures and usage alerts, as well as the adoption of standards for responses to customers and limits on early termination fees. On December 12, 2013, CTIA filed a letter with the FCC detailing voluntary commitments by large wireless providers, including Sprint, which will permit subscribers and former subscribers to unlock their mobile devices, subject to contract fulfillment timeframes for postpaid plans, or after one year for prepaid plans. The carriers have agreed to fully implement the voluntary commitments within 12 months of adoption. Subsequently, on February 11, 2014, CTIA-The Wireless Association adopted six standards on mobile wireless device unlocking into the CTIA Consumer Code for Wireless Service. Finally, on August 1, 2014, the Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act was enacted to make it easier for consumers to change their cell phone service providers without paying for a new phone. This new statute reverses a decision made by the Library of Congress in 2012 that said it was illegal for consumers to &#8220;unlock&#8221; their cell phones for use on other networks without their service provider&#8217;s permission. Adoption of these, and other similar, consumer protection requirements could increase the expenses or decrease the revenue of our wireless business. &#160; Courts have also had, and in the future may continue to have, an effect on the extent to which matters pertaining to the content and format of wireless bills can be regulated at the state level. Any further changes to these and similar requirements could increase our costs of doing business and our costs of acquiring and retaining customers.

Net Neutrality . For information concerning the FCC&#8217;s non-discrimination requirements for wireless broadband providers, see the discussion under &#8220;Regulation of Wireline Operations &#8211; Broadband Services / Net Neutrality&#8221; below.

Radio Frequency Emission from Handsets . Some studies (and media reports) have suggested that radio frequency emissions from handsets, wireless data devices and cell sites may raise various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Most of the expert reviews conducted to date have concluded that the evidence does not support a finding of adverse health effects but that further research is appropriate. Courts have dismissed a number of lawsuits filed against other wireless service operators and manufacturers, asserting claims relating to radio frequency transmissions to and from handsets and wireless data devices. However, there can be no assurance that the outcome of other lawsuits, or general public concerns over these issues, will not have a material adverse effect on the wireless industry, including us.

&#160;

Accessibility . The FCC imposes obligations on telecommunications service providers, including wireless providers, intended to ensure that individuals with disabilities receive access to telecommunications services and equipment. FCC rules require &#160; CMRS providers to be capable of transmitting 911 calls from persons who are deaf, hard of hearing or speech disabled, through means other than mobile radio handsets, such as TTY technology. In addition, telecommunications services, including interconnected VoIP, and advanced communications services (ACS) (such as email and text messaging) must be accessible to and usable by disabled persons, including by ensuring TTY signal compatibility, unless doing so is not achievable. FCC rules require that customer support for covered services is accessible and also imposes extensive recordkeeping for both telecommunications services and ACS, and subject providers to significant penalties for non-compliance with accessibility requirements as well as for falsely certifying compliance with recordkeeping obligations. Similarly, existing FCC rules require us to offer a minimum number of hearing aid-compatible handsets to consumers. The FCC recently proposed rules that would update technical specifications for hearing-aid compatible (HAC) handsets and extend HAC compatibility requirements to VoIP handsets. We cannot predict if or when additional changes will be made to the current FCC accessibility rules, or whether and how such changes will affect us.

911 Services . We are subject to FCC rules that require wireless carriers to make emergency 911 services available to their subscribers, including enhanced 911 services that convey the caller&#8217;s telephone number and detailed location information to emergency responders. The FCC has also sought public comment to investigate further requirements regarding the accuracy of wireless location information transmitted during an emergency 911 call. Additionally, the FCC has recently proposed rules that would require all wireless carriers to support the ability of consumers to send text messages to 911 in all areas of the country where 911 Public Safety Answering Points (&#8220;PSAP&#8221;) are capable of receiving text messages. Also, in May 2013, the FCC adopted rules which require CMRS providers to provide an automatic &#8220;bounce-back&#8221; text message when a subscriber attempts to send a text message to 911 in a location where text-to-911 is not available. In August 2014, the FCC ordered that all CMRS and interconnected text providers must be capable of supporting text-to-911 by December 31, 2014. Such covered text providers have until June 30, 2015, to begin delivering text-to-911 messages to PSAPs that have submitted requests for such delivery by December 31, 2014, unless otherwise agreed with the PSAP, and six months to begin delivery after any such request made after December 31, 2014. We are not able to predict the effect that these, or any other, changes to the 911 service rules will have on our operations.

Regulation of Wireline Operations 

As an ILEC, Shenandoah Telephone Company&#8217;s (&#8220;Shenandoah Telephone&#8221;) operations are regulated by federal and state regulatory agencies.

State Regulation . Shenandoah Telephone&#8217;s rates for local exchange service, intrastate toll service, and intrastate access charges are subject to the approval of the VSCC. The VSCC also establishes and oversees implementation of certain provisions of the federal and state telecommunications laws, including interconnection requirements, promotion of competition, and consumer protection standards. The VSCC also regulates rates, service areas, service standards, accounting methods, affiliated transactions and certain other financial transactions. Pursuant to the FCC&#8217;s October 27, 2011 order adopting comprehensive reforms to the federal intercarrier compensation and universal service policies and rules (as discussed above and further below), the FCC preempted state regulatory commissions&#8217; jurisdiction over all terminating access charges, including intrastate terminating access charges, which historically have been within the states&#8217; jurisdiction. However, the FCC vested in the states the obligation to monitor the tariffing of intrastate rate reductions for a transition period, to oversee interconnection negotiations and arbitrations, and to determine the network edge, subject to FCC guidance, for purposes of the new &#8220;bill-and-keep&#8221; framework. A federal appeals court has affirmed the decision, but a further appeal has been filed. The outcome of those further challenges could modify or delay the effectiveness of the FCC&#8217;s rule changes. Although we are unable to predict the ultimate effect that the FCC&#8217;s order will have on the state regulatory landscape or our operations, the rules may decrease or eliminate revenue sources or otherwise limit our ability to recover the full value of our network assets.

Interconnection. Federal law and FCC regulations impose certain obligations on incumbent local exchange carriers to interconnect their networks with other telecommunications providers (either directly or indirectly) and to enter into ICAs with certain types of telecommunications providers. Interconnection agreements typically are negotiated on a statewide basis and are subject to state approval. If an agreement cannot be reached, parties to interconnection negotiations can submit unresolved issues to federal or state regulators for arbitration. Disputes regarding intercarrier compensation can be brought in a number of forums (depending on the nature and jurisdiction of the dispute) including PUCs, the FCC, and the courts. The Company is working to resolve several routine interconnection and intercarrier compensation-related disputes concerning the appropriate rates and terms for the origination and termination of traffic on third-party networks.

&#160;

Regulation of Intercarrier Compensation. &#160; Shenandoah Telephone participates in the access revenue pools administered by the FCC-supervised National Exchange Carrier Association (&#8220;NECA&#8221;), which collects and distributes the revenues from interstate access charges that long-distance carriers pay us for originating and terminating interstate calls over our network. Shenandoah Telephone also participates in some NECA tariffs that govern the rates, terms, and conditions of our interstate access offerings. Some of those tariffs are under review by the FCC, and we may be obligated to refund affected access charges collected in the past or in the future if the FCC ultimately finds that the tariffed rates were unreasonable. We cannot predict whether, when, and to what extent such refunds may be due.

On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted a number of broad changes to the ICC rules governing the interstate access rates charged by small-to-mid-sized ILECs such as Shenandoah Telephone. For example, the FCC adopted a national &#8220;bill-and-keep&#8221; framework, which will result in substantial reductions in the access charges paid by long distance carriers and other interconnecting carriers, possibly to zero, accompanied by increases to the subscriber line charges paid by business and residential end users. In addition, the FCC has changed some of the rules that determine what compensation voice service providers, including but not limited to wireless carriers, competitive local exchange carriers, Voice over Internet Protocol (&#8220;VoIP&#8221;) providers and providers of other Internet-enabled services, should pay and receive for originating and terminating traffic that is interconnected with ILEC networks.

Although the FCC&#8217;s recent changes to the ICC rules have been affirmed by a federal appeals court, a further appeal has been filed. These changes, and potential future changes, to such compensation regulations could increase our expenses and/or reduce our revenues. At this time we cannot estimate the amount of such additional expense or revenue changes.

The VSCC has jurisdiction over local telephone companies&#8217; intrastate access charges, and has indicated in the past that it might open a generic proceeding on the rates charged for intrastate access, although the scope and likelihood of such a proceeding is unclear in light of the FCC&#8217;s overhaul of the intercarrier compensation rules (discussed above), which affect states&#8217; jurisdiction over intrastate access charges. The VSCC issued a Final Order on August 9, 2011 that required service providers to eliminate their common carrier line charges in three stages. Pursuant to the order, the Company&#8217;s intrastate common line revenue had declined in each of the previous three years, and was eliminated in mid-2014.

Interstate and intrastate access charges are important sources of revenue for Shenandoah Telephone&#8217;s operations. Unless these revenues can either be replaced through a new universal service mechanism, or unless they can be reflected in higher rates to local end users, or replaced through other newly created methods of cost recovery, the loss of revenues to us could be significant. There can be no assurance that access charges in their present form will be continued or that sufficient substitutes for the lost revenues will be provided. If access charges are reduced without sufficient substitutes for the lost revenues, this could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, changes to the intercarrier compensation rules and policies could have a material impact on our competitive position vis-&#224;-vis other service providers, particularly in our ability to proactively make improvements to our networks and systems.

Universal Service Fund. Shenandoah Telephone receives disbursements from the USF. In October 2011, the FCC adopted comprehensive changes to the universal service program that are intended in part to stabilize the USF, the total funding of which had increased considerably in recent years. Some of the FCC&#8217;s reforms impact the rules that govern disbursements from the USF to rural ILECs such as Shenandoah Telephone, and to other providers. Such changes, and additional future changes, may reduce the size of the USF and payments to Shenandoah Telephone, which could have an adverse impact on the Company&#8217;s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company is not able to predict if or when additional changes will be made to the USF, or whether and how such changes would affect the extent of our total federal universal service assessments, the amounts we receive, or our ability to recover costs associated with the USF.

&#160;

If the Universal Service Administrative Company (&#8220;USAC&#8221;) were required to account for the USF program in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for federal agencies under the Anti-Deficiency Act (the &#8220;ADA&#8221;), it could cause delays in USF payments to fund recipients and significantly increase the amount of USF contribution payments charged to wireline and wireless consumers. Each year since 2004, Congress has adopted short-term exemptions for the USAC from the ADA. Congress has from time to time considered adopting a longer term exemption for the USAC from the ADA, but we cannot predict whether any such exemption will be adopted or the effect it may have on the Company.

In February, 2012, the FCC released an order making substantial changes to the rules and regulations governing the USF Lifeline Program, which provides discounted telephone services to low income consumers. The order imposes greater recordkeeping and reporting obligations, and generally subjects providers of Lifeline-supported services to greater oversight. As a result of our Company providing Lifeline-supported services, it is subject to increased reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and could be subject to increased regulatory oversight, investigations or audits. The FCC, USAC and other authorities have conducted, and in the future are expected to continue to conduct, more extensive audits of USF support recipients, as well as other heightened oversight activities. The impact of these activities on the Company, if any, is uncertain.

Broadband Services.

In December 2010, the FCC adopted so-called &#8220;net neutrality&#8221; rules that it deemed necessary to ensure an &#8220;open&#8221; Internet that is not unduly restricted by network &#8220;gatekeepers.&#8221; Those rules subjected wireline and wireless broadband Internet access service providers to varying regulations (depending upon the nature of the service) including three key requirements: 1) a prohibition against blocking websites or other online applications; 2) a prohibition against unreasonable discrimination among Internet users or among different websites or other sources of information; and 3) a transparency requirement compelling the disclosure of network management policies. Our wireline subsidiaries that provide broadband Internet access services were subject to these rules. However, on January 14, 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, in Verizon v. FCC, struck down major portions of the FCC&#8217;s net neutrality rules governing the operating practices of broadband Internet access providers like us. The Court struck down the first two components of the rules, the prohibition against blocking and unreasonable discrimination, concluding that they constitute &#8220;common carrier&#8221; restrictions that are not permissible given the FCC&#8217;s earlier decision to classify Internet access as an &#8220;information service,&#8221; rather than a &#8220;telecommunications service.&#8221; The Court simultaneously upheld the FCC&#8217;s transparency requirement, concluding that this final requirement does not amount to impermissible common carrier regulation.

On February 26, 2015, in response to the D.C. Circuit&#8217;s ruling, the FCC adopted an order imposing new rules to reclassify and regulate broadband Internet access services. The Order reclassifies wireline and wireless broadband services as Title II common carrier services, and asserts legal authority to regulate broadband service offered by ISPs under Title II, Title III, and Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act. In an effort to protect consumers and edge providers, new rules promulgated under the Order would prohibit ISPs from engaging in blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization, and the existing transparency/disclosure rules would be enhanced. For the first time, under this Order the FCC has authority to hear complaints and take enforcement actions if it determines that the interconnection of ISPs are not just and reasonable, or if ISPs fail to meet a new general obligation not to harm consumers or edge providers. The Order forbears from (at least for now) certain Title II regulation, such as rate regulation, tariffs and last-mile unbundling. The Order does not propose assessment of USF fees on broadband at this time. &#160; The Order has been appealed by multiple parties, but the rules are currently in effect (except for the expanded disclosure requirements, which will not become effective until they receive approval from the Office of Management and Budget). The Order could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There are also legislative proposals in Congress to preempt the Chairman&#8217;s proposed &#8220;utility-style&#8221; regulation, while still addressing many of the underlying concerns. We do not know at the current time if the new regulations will survive judicial review, nor do we know how they would be administered if they do, but they could adversely affect the potential development of advantageous relationships with Internet content providers. Rules or statutes increasing the regulation of our Internet services could limit our ability to efficiently manage our networks and respond to operational and competitive challenges.

&#160;

As the Internet has matured, it has become the subject of increasing regulatory interest. Congress and Federal regulators have adopted a wide range of measures directly or potentially affecting Internet use. The adoption of new Internet regulations or policies could adversely affect our business.

On January 29, 2015, the FCC, in a nation-wide proceeding evaluating whether &#8220;advanced broadband&#8221; is being deployed in a reasonable and timely fashion, increased the minimum connection speeds required to qualify as advanced broadband service to 25 Mbps for downloads and 3 Mbps for uploads. As a result, the FCC concluded that advanced broadband was not being sufficiently deployed and initiated a new inquiry into what steps it might take to encourage broadband deployment. This action may lead the FCC to adopt additional measures affecting our broadband business. At the same time, the FCC has ongoing proceedings to allocate additional spectrum for advanced wireless service, which could provide additional wireless competition to our broadband business.

In addition, in 2015 the West Virginia Office of the Attorney General initiated an informal inquiry into the marketing practices and performance of all sizable West Virginia Internet service providers, including Shenandoah Cable Television, LLC, within West Virginia. Pursuant to requests from the Attorney General&#8217;s office the Company provided all requested information concerning terms of service, pricing, packaging, advertising, service intervals, infrastructure investments and related information (including the results of internal speed tests). It is unclear when this inquiry will be completed, or whether the Attorney General&#8217;s office will request additional information, or take any further action. The impact of these activities on the Company, if any, is uncertain.

Other Regulatory Obligations. &#160; Shenandoah Telephone is subject to requirements relating to CPNI, CALEA implementation, interconnection, access to rights of way, number portability, number pooling, accessibility of telecommunications for those with disabilities, protection for consumer privacy, and other obligations similar to those discussed above for our wireless operations.

The FCC and other authorities continue to consider policies to encourage nationwide advanced broadband infrastructure development. For example, the FCC has largely deregulated DSL and other broadband services offered by ILECs. Such changes benefit our ILEC, but could make it more difficult for us (or for NECA) to tariff and pool DSL costs. Broadband networks and services are subject to CALEA rules, network management disclosure and prohibitions, requirements relating to consumer privacy, and other regulatory mandates.

911 Services . We are subject to FCC rules that require telecommunications carriers to make emergency 911 services available to their subscribers, including enhanced 911 services that convey the caller&#8217;s telephone number and detailed location information to emergency responders. In December 2013 the FCC adopted a rule requiring all 911 service providers that serve a public safety answering point or other local emergency responder, to take reasonable measures to ensure 911 circuit diversity, availability of backup power at central offices that directly serve PSAPs, and diversity of network monitoring links.

Long Distance Services . We offer long distance service to our customers through our subsidiary, Shentel Communications, LLC. Our long distance rates are not subject to FCC regulation, but we are required to offer long distance service through a subsidiary other than Shenandoah Telephone, to disclose our long distance rates on a website, to maintain geographically averaged rates, to pay contributions to the USF and make other mandatory payments based on our long-distance revenues, and to comply with other filing and regulatory requirements. In November 2013 the FCC issued an order imposing greater recordkeeping and reporting obligations on certain long distance providers delivering calls to rural areas. The order imposes greater recordkeeping and quarterly reporting obligations on such providers, and generally subjects such providers to greater oversight. &#160; At this time, the Company is exempt from these rules.

&#160;

CLEC Operations. &#160; We are authorized to operate as a CLEC in Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia and Pennsylvania. CLECs generally are subject to federal and state regulations that are similar to, but not as stringent as, those that apply to our ILEC operations. Both the FCC and the state regulatory authorities require that, in most circumstances, CLEC access charges be no higher than the access charges of the ILECs in areas where they operate.

Regulation of Cable Television, Interconnected VoIP and Other Video Service Operations 

Through Shenandoah Cable Television, LLC, we provide cable service in a number of jurisdictions throughout West Virginia, numerous communities across southern and southwestern Virginia, and a small area of western Maryland. We also provide cable service in Shenandoah County, Virginia through Shentel Cable of Shenandoah County, LLC.

The provision of cable service generally is subject to regulation by the FCC, and cable operators typically also must comply with the terms of the franchise agreement between the cable operator and the local franchising authority. Some states, including Virginia and West Virginia, have enacted regulations and franchise provisions that also can affect certain aspects of a cable operator&#8217;s operations.

Pricing and Packaging . Federal law limits cable rate regulation to communities that are not subject to &#8220;effective competition,&#8221; as defined by federal regulation. In the absence of effective competition, federal law authorizes local franchising authorities to regulate the monthly rates charged for the minimum level of video programming service (the &#8220;basic service tier&#8221;) and for the installation, sale and lease of equipment used by end users to receive the basic service tier, but no additional cable offerings. None of the local franchise authorities presently regulate our rates. Congress and the FCC from time to time have considered imposing new pricing and packaging restrictions on cable operators, including possible requirements to unbundle existing service tiers and provide cable programming on an a la carte basis. We cannot predict whether or when such new pricing and packaging restrictions may be imposed on us or what effect they would have on our ability to provide cable service.

Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent. Local broadcast television stations can require a cable operator to carry their signals pursuant to federal &#8220;must-carry&#8221; requirements. Alternatively, local television stations may require that a cable operator obtain &#8220;retransmission consent&#8221; for carriage of the station&#8217;s signal, which can enable a popular local television station to obtain concessions from the cable operator for the right to carry the station&#8217;s signal. When stations choose retransmission consent over must-carry, both the station and the cable operator have a duty to negotiate in good faith for such consent. Although some local television stations today are carried by cable operators under the must-carry obligation, popular broadcast network affiliated stations (like ABC, CBS, FOX, CW and NBC) typically are carried pursuant to retransmission consent agreements. The cable industry&#8217;s retransmission consent costs are increasing rapidly. In the past, proposals have been advanced in Congress and at the FCC to reform or eliminate retransmission consent, and the FCC is currently considering limited reform measures. We are unable to predict what future changes, if any, Congress or the FCC might adopt in connection with retransmission consent and how such rules may affect our business.

Copyright Fees. Cable operators pay compulsory copyright fees (in addition to possible retransmission consent fees) to retransmit broadcast programming. Although the cable compulsory copyright license has been in place for 40 years, there have been legislative and regulatory proposals to replace the compulsory license with privately negotiated licenses. We cannot predict whether such proposals will be enacted and how they might affect our business. The Copyright Office adopted rules in 2014 governing private audits of cable operators&#8217; compulsory copyright payments, and any resulting audits initiated by copyright owners could lead to demands for increased copyright payments.

Programming Costs. &#160; Satellite-delivered cable programming, such as ESPN, HBO and the Discovery Channel, is not subject to must-carry/retransmission consent regulations or a compulsory copyright license. The Company negotiates directly or through the National Cable Television Cooperative (&#8220;NCTC&#8221;) with satellite-delivered cable programmers for the right to carry their programming. The cost of acquiring the right to carry satellite-delivered cable programming can increase as the popularity of such programming increases, or as programmers demand rate increases. We cannot predict the extent to which such programming costs may increase in the future or the effect such cost increases may have on our ability to provide cable service.

&#160;

Franchise Matters. Cable operators generally must apply for and obtain non-exclusive franchises from local or state franchising authorities before providing video service. The terms and conditions of franchises vary among jurisdictions, but franchises generally last for a fixed term, subject to renewal; require the cable operator to collect a franchise fee of as much as 5% of the cable operator&#8217;s gross revenue from video services; and contain certain service quality and customer service obligations. A significant number of states today have processes in place for obtaining state-wide franchises, and legislation has been introduced from time to time in Congress and in various states, including those in which we provide some form of video service, that would require the implementation of state-wide franchising processes. Although we cannot predict whether state-wide franchising will become ubiquitous, it would, if implemented, likely lower barriers to entry and increase competition in the marketplace for video services. In 2006, the FCC adopted new rules governing the terms and conditions under which franchising authorities can award franchises to entities that compete against incumbent cable service operators. These rules generally limit the ability of franchising authorities to impose certain requirements on and extract certain concessions from new entrants. Also in 2006, Virginia adopted a new franchising statute. This statute largely leaves franchising responsibility in the hands of local municipalities and counties, but it governs the local government entities&#8217; award of such franchises and their conduct of franchise negotiations. We cannot predict the extent to which these rules and other developments will accelerate the pace of new entry into the video market or the effect, if any, they may have on our cable operations.

Leased Access/PEG. The Communications Act permits franchising authorities to require cable operators to set aside the use of channels for public, education and governmental access (&#8220;PEG&#8221;) programming. The Communications Act also requires certain cable systems to make available a portion of their capacity for commercial leased access by third parties that would compete with programming offered on other channels of the cable system. Increases in the amount of required commercial leased access or PEG access usage could reduce the number of channels available to us to provide other types of programming to subscribers.

Pole Attachments. The Communications Act requires most utilities to provide cable systems with access to poles and conduits and simultaneously subjects the rates charged for this access to either federal or state regulation. In 2011 and again in 2015, the FCC amended its existing pole attachment rules to promote broadband deployment. The 2011 order allows for new penalties in certain cases involving unauthorized attachments, but generally strengthens the cable industry&#8217;s ability to access investor-owned utility poles on reasonable rates, terms and conditions. Additionally, the 2011 order reduces the federal rate formula previously applicable to &#8220;telecommunications&#8221; attachments to closely approximate the rate formula applicable to &#8220;cable&#8221; attachments. The 2015 order (which may still be appealed by utility pole owners) continues that rate reconciliation, effectively closing the remaining &#8220;loophole&#8221; that potentially allowed for significantly higher rates for telecommunications attachments in certain scenarios. Neither the 2011 order nor the 2015 order directly affect the rate in states that self-regulate (rather than allow the FCC to regulate) pole rates, but many of those states have substantially the same rate for cable and telecommunications attachments.

Broadband Services . For information concerning the regulation of Broadband services, see the discussion under &#8220;Regulation of Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier Operations &#8211; Broadband Services&#8221; above.

Net Neutrality . For information concerning the FCC&#8217;s non-discrimination requirements for fixed broadband providers, see the discussion under &#8220;Regulation of Wireline Operations &#8211; Broadband Services / Net Neutrality&#8221; above.

&#160;

VoIP Services . We provide voice communications services over our cable network utilizing interconnected VoIP technology and service arrangements. Although similar to telephone service in some ways, our VoIP service arrangement utilizes different technology and is subject to many of the same rules and regulations applicable to traditional telephone service. The FCC order adopted on October 27, 2011, established rules governing intercarrier compensation payments for the origination and termination of telephone traffic between carriers and VoIP providers. In May 2014 the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit upheld the FCC order reducing intercarrier compensation payments. The rules are likely to substantially decrease intercarrier compensation payments we may have otherwise received over a multi-year period. The decreases over the multi-year transition will affect both the amounts that we pay to telecommunications carriers and the amounts that we receive from other carriers. The schedule and magnitude of these decreases, however, will vary depending on the nature of the carriers and the telephone traffic at issue. We cannot yet predict with certainty the balance of the impact on our revenues and expenses for voice services at particular times over this multi-year period.

Further regulatory changes are being considered that could impact our VoIP service. The FCC and state regulatory authorities are considering, for example, whether certain common carrier regulations traditionally applied to incumbent local exchange carriers should be modified or reduced, and the extent to which common carrier requirements should be extended to VoIP providers. The FCC has already determined that certain providers of voice services using Internet Protocol technology must comply with requirements relating to 911 emergency services, CALEA, USF contribution, customer privacy and CPNI issues, number portability, disability access, regulatory fees, and discontinuance of service. In March 2007, a federal appeals court affirmed the FCC&#8217;s decision concerning federal regulation of certain VoIP services, but declined to specifically find that VoIP service provided by cable companies, such as we provide, should be regulated only at the federal level. As a result, some states, including West Virginia, began proceedings to subject cable VoIP services to state-level regulation. Although the West Virginia proceeding concluded without any new state-level regulation, it is difficult to predict whether it, or other state regulators, will continue to attempt to regulate our VoIP service. We have registered with, or obtained certificates or authorizations from, the FCC and the state regulatory authorities in those states in which we offer competitive voice services in order to ensure the continuity of our services and to maintain needed network interconnection arrangements. It is not clear how the FCC Order to reclassify wireline and wireless broadband services as Title II common carrier services, and pursuant to Section 706, will affect the regulatory status of our VoIP services. Further, it is also unclear whether and how these and other ongoing regulatory matters ultimately will be resolved. In November 2014, the FCC adopted an order imposing limited backup power obligations on providers of facilities-based fixed, residential voice services that are not otherwise line-powered, including our VoIP services. This order will become effective for providers with fewer than 100,000 U.S. customer lines in August 2016 and at that time will require the company to disclose certain information to customers and to make available back up power at the point of sale.

Prospective competitors of Shenandoah Cable may also receive disbursements from the USF. Some of those competitors have requested USF support under the Connect America Fund to build broadband facilities in areas already served by Shenandoah Cable. Although Shenandoah Cable has opposed such requests where we offer service, we cannot predict whether the FCC or another agency will grant such requests or otherwise fund broadband service in areas already served by the company.

&#160;

Other Issues. Our ability to provide cable service may be affected by a wide range of additional regulatory and related issues, including FCC regulations pertaining to licensing of systems and facilities, set-top boxes, equipment compatibility, program exclusivity blackouts, advertising, public files, accessibility to persons with disabilities, emergency alerts, pole attachments, equal employment opportunity, privacy, consumer protection, and technical standards. For example, following enactment of the 21 st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act, the FCC has adopted new rules and heightened enforcement of rules requiring captioning and description of video programming, accessibility of emergency information, and equipment and navigation devices. In addition, proceedings before the FCC and state regulatory bodies have examined the rates that cable operators must pay to use utility poles and conduits, and other terms and conditions of pole attachment agreements. Pole attachment costs are significant and changes in pole attachment regulation and the resulting rates could have an adverse impact on our operations. In December 2014, as part of the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act (&#8220;STELA&#8221;) reauthorization, Congress repealed a prohibition on cable operators offering set-top boxes with integrated security and navigational features (effective December 4, 2015), but also directed the FCC to establish a working group of &#8220;technical experts&#8221; to identify downloadable security design options to facilitate consumer use of retail navigation devices in lieu of set-top boxes provided by cable operators. The working group issued its report in August 2015. In February 2016, the FCC initiated a new rulemaking proceeding and proposed rules to require us and other multichannel video programming distributors &#8220;MVPDs&#8221;) to make changes to our networks to enable customer-owned third party devices to access our video services in lieu of our leased set-top boxes. Specifically, the FCC&#8217;s proposal would require MVPDs to offer three so-called &#8220;information flows&#8221; to third-party device makers, which would include (1) information about programming availability; (2) information about what a device is permitted to do with the content; and (3) the video program content itself. If adopted as currently proposed by the FCC, the proposal could require us to undertake costly steps to re-engineer our network, and it could have a significant impact on our ability to deliver cable television services and compete with other video service providers, including those providing so-called &#8220;over-the-top&#8221; video services. We cannot predict the nature and pace of these and other developments or the effect they may have on our operations.

Employees

At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 730 employees, of whom approximately 662 were full-time employees. None of our employees is represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

&#160;

Executive Officers

The following table presents information about our executive officers who, other than Christopher E. French, are not members of our board of directors. Our executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.

Name

Title

Age

Date in Position Christopher E. French

President and Chief Executive Officer

&#160; April 1988

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Earle A. MacKenzie

Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer

&#160; June 2003

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Adele M. Skolits

Vice President &#8211; Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

&#160; September 2007

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; William L. Pirtle

Senior Vice President &#8211; Marketing and Sales

&#160; September 2015

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Raymond B. Ostroski

General Counsel, Vice President - Legal and Corporate Secretary

&#160; January 2013

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Thomas A. Whitaker

Senior Vice President &#8211; Operations

&#160; September 2015

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Edward H. McKay

Senior Vice President &#8211;Engineering &#38; Planning

&#160; September 2015

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Richard A. Baughman

Vice President &#8211; Information Technology

&#160; June 2010

Mr. French is President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, where he is responsible for the overall leadership and strategic direction of the Company. He has served as President since 1988, and has been a member and Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1996. Prior to appointment as President, Mr. French held a variety of positions with the Company, including Vice President Network Service and Executive Vice President. Mr. French holds a BS in electrical engineering and an MBA, both from the University of Virginia. He has held board and officer positions in both state and national telecommunications associations, including service as a director of the Organization for the Promotion and Advancement of Small Telecommunications Companies (OPASTCO) and was president and director of the Virginia Telecommunications Industry Association. Mr. French is currently a member of the Leadership Committee of the USTelecom Association.

Mr. MacKenzie is Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the Company. He joined the Company in 2003, and is responsible for Shentel's daily operations of its subsidiaries. Mr. MacKenzie began his career in the telecommunications industry in 1975. He was the co-founder and President of Broadslate Networks and Essex Communications. He served as COO of Digital Television Services and as Senior Vice President of Contel Cellular. Mr. MacKenzie is a graduate of The College of William and Mary and holds a BBA in accounting. Mr. MacKenzie is a member of the Board of Directors of the American Cable Association.

Ms. Skolits serves as Chief Financial Officer and Vice President - Finance at Shentel. She joined the Company in 2007 and is responsible for Shentel's daily financial decisions. Ms. Skolits&#8217; industry experience began in 1995 and included three years with Revol Wireless where she served as Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Skolits' telecommunications experience also includes serving as Controller for Comcast Metrophone, Director of Financial Operations for Comcast Cellular Communications and Chief Financial Officer of City Signal Communications. Ms. Skolits earned a BS degree in Commerce with a concentration in Accounting from the University of Virginia.

&#160;

Mr. Pirtle is Senior Vice President - Marketing and Sales for Shentel. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in September 2015. He is responsible for sales and marketing of Sprint branded wireless products and services, Shentel branded cable TV, Internet access, and voice products and services offered by the company. He is also responsible for the Shentel brand identity. His previous position was Vice President - Wireless, responsible for Shentel&#8217;s Wireless segment. He joined the Company in 1992 as Vice President - Network Services responsible for Shentel's technology decisions, maintenance and operation of its telephone, cable, cellular, paging and fiber optics networks. He helped launch Shentel's Internet business in 1994, and led its participation in its wireless PCS business and Sprint affiliation beginning in 1995. He is a graduate of the University of Virginia. Mr. Pirtle is a co-founder of the Shenandoah Valley Technology Council and has represented the Company on the Board of ValleyNet.

Mr. Ostroski is General Counsel and Vice President &#8211; Legal and Corporate Secretary for Shentel. He joined Shentel in 2013 and is responsible for all legal and regulatory compliance matters for the Company. He also acts as Corporate Secretary to the Company&#8217;s Board of Directors. Mr. Ostroski began his career in the telecommunications industry in 1985 and has served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel for One Communications, Senior Vice President and General Counsel for Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Executive Vice President and General Counsel for RCN Corporation and Senior Vice President and General Counsel of C-TEC Corporation. Mr. Ostroski earned a BS degree in Social Science from Wilkes University and also earned a Juris Doctor degree from Temple University School of Law.

Mr. Whitaker is Senior Vice President - Operations for Shentel. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in September 2015. He was previously the Vice President - Cable with responsibility for Shentel cable operations. Mr. Whitaker joined Shentel in 2004 through the Shentel acquisition of NTC Communications. Mr. Whitaker is responsible for the ongoing development, operations and maintenance of Shentel&#8217;s wireless, wireline and cable operations. Additionally, he supports the Shentel Network Operations Center. Mr. Whitaker began his career in 1983. He previously was COO of NTC Communications, and served as Vice President of Network Operations at Broadslate Networks, Director of Wireless Operations for nTelos, and was Co-Founder and Vice President of Nat-Com, Incorporated. Mr. Whitaker is a graduate of West Virginia Wesleyan College in Buckhannon, WV.

Mr. McKay is Senior Vice President - Engineering &#38; Planning for Shentel. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in September 2015. He is responsible for network planning and engineering for all Shentel&#8217;s networks and the Marketing and Sales of Shentel&#8217;s fiber optic network. Previously he was Vice President - Wireline and Engineering. Mr. McKay joined Shentel in 2004 and began his telecommunications industry career in 1996, including previous engineering management positions at UUNET and Verizon. He is a graduate of the University of Virginia, where he earned ME and BS degrees in Electrical Engineering. He represents the Company on the Board of ValleyNet.

Mr. Baughman is Vice President - Information Technology of Shentel. He began his career in 1991 working with the Navy and entered the telecommunications industry in 1995, working for companies including Bellcore/Telcordia, AT&#38;T, Lucent, WINfirst and SureWest. He joined the Company in 2006 and is responsible for all of the back-office software and infrastructure systems at Shentel. Mr. Baughman has a BS in Electrical Engineering from Lafayette College and an MS in Optics from the University of Rochester.

Websites and Additional Information

The Company maintains a corporate website at www.shentel.com . &#160; We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8&#8209;K, and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such reports with or to the SEC. The contents of our website are not a part of this report. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding the Company. 

&#160;

