 Item 1. 

BUSINESS 

Laboratory Corporation of America &#174; &#32;Holdings together with its subsidiaries (LabCorp &#174; &#32;or the Company) is the world&#8217;s leading healthcare diagnostics company, providing comprehensive clinical laboratory services and end-to-end drug development support. The Company&#8217;s strategic vision is to improve health and improve lives by delivering world class diagnostic solutions, bringing innovative medicines to patients faster and developing technology-enabled solutions to change the way care is provided. 

The Company, headquartered in Burlington, North Carolina, is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 1971 and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol LH in 1995. On February 19, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of Covance Inc. (Acquisition), a global leader in drug development services, which significantly expanded the Company&#8217;s offering to the biopharmaceutical industry, increased the Company&#8217;s international presence and enhanced the Company&#8217;s financial growth opportunities. 

The Company has more than 50,000 employees and serves more than 220,000 customers, including managed care organizations (MCOs), biopharmaceutical companies, governmental agencies, physicians, hospitals and health systems, employers, patients and consumers, food and nutritional companies and independent clinical laboratories. The Company believes that it generated more revenue from laboratory testing than any other company in the world in 2015. 

The Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of the Company&#8217;s Website at www.labcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Additionally, the SEC maintains an Internet Website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The public may also read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

The matters discussed in this &#8220;Business&#8221; section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements found in Item 8 of Part II of this report, which include additional financial information about the Company, including financial information about geographic areas. This report includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. The Company&#8217;s results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risk factors described in Item 1A of Part I of this report and elsewhere. For more information about forward-looking statements, see &#8220;Forward Looking Statements&#8221; in Item 7. 

Business Segments 

The Company reports its business in two segments, LabCorp Diagnostics (LCD) and Covance Drug Development (CDD). For further financial information about these segments, including information for each of the last three fiscal years regarding revenue, operating income and other important information, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2015, LCD and CDD contributed 72.9% and 27.1%, respectively, of net revenues to the Company. 

LabCorp Diagnostics Segment &#32; 

LCD is an independent clinical laboratory business that consists of a network of 39 primary laboratories and approximately 1,700 patient service centers (PSCs) along with a network of branches and STAT laboratories, which offer a focused menu of routine and frequently ordered tests with the ability to perform quickly and report the results to the physician. 

With over 36,000 employees, LCD processes tests on approximately 500,000 patient specimens daily and has clinical laboratory locations throughout the U.S. and other countries including Canada, the U.K. and the United Arab Emirates. Its clients include physicians, hospitals, MCOs, governmental agencies, employers, and other independent clinical laboratories that do not have as wide a range of testing capabilities. 

Clinical Laboratory Testing Industry 

Laboratory tests and procedures are used generally by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers and commercial clients to assist in the diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of diseases and medical conditions through the examination of substances in blood, tissues and other specimens. The results of such tests can help in the evaluation of health, the detection of conditions or 

&#32;4 

pathogens and the selection of appropriate therapies. Clinical laboratory testing is generally categorized as either clinical pathology testing, which is performed on body fluids including blood, or anatomical pathology testing, in which a pathologist examines histologic or cytologic samples (i.e., tissue and other samples, including human cells). Clinical and anatomical pathology procedures are frequently ordered as part of regular physician office visits and hospital admissions in connection with the diagnosis and treatment of illnesses. Certain of these tests and procedures are used in the diagnosis and management of a wide variety of medical conditions such as cancer, infectious disease, endocrine disorders, cardiac disorders and genetic disease. It is estimated that although laboratory services account for less than 3% of total U.S. healthcare spending (and less than 2% of Medicare expenditures), the results of those tests influence approximately 70% of physician medical decisions. 

The Company believes that in 2015, the U.S. clinical laboratory testing industry generated revenues of approximately $75.0 billion. The clinical laboratory industry consists primarily of three types of providers: hospital-based laboratories, physician-office laboratories and independent clinical and anatomical pathology laboratories, such as those operated by LCD. The clinical laboratory business is intensely competitive. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has estimated that in 2015 there were approximately 9,000 hospital-based laboratories, more than 122,000 physician-office laboratories and more than 6,000 independent clinical laboratories in the U.S. LCD competes with all of those laboratories. 

LCD believes that healthcare providers selecting a laboratory often consider the following factors, among others: 

&#8226; 

accuracy, timeliness and consistency in reporting test results; 

&#8226; 

reputation of the laboratory in the medical community or field of specialty; 

&#8226; 

contractual relationships with MCOs; 

&#8226; 

service capability and convenience offered by the laboratory; 

&#8226; 

number and type of tests performed; 

&#8226; 

connectivity solutions offered; and 

&#8226; 

pricing of the laboratory&#8217;s services. 

LCD believes that consolidation in the clinical laboratory testing business will continue. In addition, LCD believes that it and the other large independent clinical laboratory testing companies will be able to increase their share of the overall clinical laboratory testing market due to a number of factors, including cost efficiencies afforded by large-scale automated testing, mergers and acquisitions of complementary businesses, reimbursement reductions and demands from health plans and other healthcare organizations for greater efficiency and large, integrated service networks. In addition, legal restrictions on physician referrals and their ownership of laboratories, as well as increased regulation of laboratories, are expected to contribute to the continuing consolidation of the industry. 

Although testing for healthcare purposes and customers represents the most significant portion of clinical laboratory industry, clinical laboratories also perform testing for other purposes and customers, including employment and occupational testing, DNA testing to determine parentage and to assist in forensic investigations, environmental testing, veterinary testing, wellness testing, toxicology testing, pain management testing and nutritional analysis and food safety testing. 

LCD Testing Operations, Services and Productivity 

LCD has a network of primary testing laboratories, specialty testing laboratories, branches, PSCs and STAT laboratories. A branch is a central facility that collects specimens in a region for shipment to one of LCD&#8217;s laboratories for testing. A branch is also frequently used as a base for sales and distribution staff. Generally, a PSC is a facility maintained by LCD to serve the patients of physicians in a medical professional building or other strategic location. The PSC staff collect specimens for testing as requested by the physician. However, most patient specimens are collected in the customer's office by the customer's staff or in some cases by an LCD in-office phlebotomist. The specimens, and test request forms if the test order was not placed electronically, are collected from customer locations and, PSCs, and sent principally through LCD's in-house courier system (and, to a lesser extent, through independent couriers) to one of LCD's primary testing laboratories for testing. Some of LCD's PSCs also function as STAT labs. 

Each specimen and related request form is checked for completeness and given a unique identification number. The unique identification number assigned to each specimen associates the results to the appropriate patient. The test request forms are sent to a data entry operator who enters the necessary testing and billing information. Once this information is entered into the software system, the tests are performed and the results are entered through an electronic data interchange interface or manually, depending upon the tests and the type of instrumentation involved. Most of LCD's automated testing equipment is connected to its information 

&#32;5 

systems. Most core testing is completed by early the next morning and test results are in most cases electronically delivered to clients via electronic interfaces, the LabCorp Beacon &#174; &#32;platform, smart printers or personal computer-based products. 

LCD maintains a constant focus on improving quality and productivity while lowering costs throughout all phases of its operations supported by LCD's technology, automation and facility rationalization initiatives. As part of an ongoing commitment to remain the most efficient and highest value provider of laboratory services, LCD has undertaken a comprehensive business process improvement initiative, referred to as Project LaunchPad, to reengineer its systems and processes to create a sustainable and more efficient business model, and improve the experience of all stakeholders. The Company expects this initiative to drive net savings in excess of $150.0 million between 2015 and 2017. In 2015, Project LaunchPad resulted in net savings of approximately $65.0 million. 

LCD Testing Services 

LCD offers a menu of over 4,700 tests. Several hundred of those tests are routinely used in general patient care by physicians to establish or support a diagnosis, to monitor treatment or to search for an otherwise undiagnosed condition. The most frequently requested of these tests include blood chemistry analyses, urinalyses, blood cell counts, thyroid tests, Pap tests, Hemoglobin A1C, PSA, STD tests (e.g. Ct, Ng, Tv, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)), hepatitis C (HCV) tests, Vitamin D, microbiology cultures and procedures, and alcohol and other substance-abuse tests. LCD performs this core group of tests in its major laboratories using sophisticated and computerized instruments, with most results reported within 24 hours or less. 

In addition, LCD provides a comprehensive range of specialty testing services in the areas of allergy, diagnostic genetics, women's health, cardiovascular disease, infectious disease, endocrinology, oncology, coagulation, pharmacogenetics, toxicology and pain management. 

LCD also performs a range of other testing, including employment and occupational testing, DNA testing to determine parentage and to assist in forensic investigations, environmental testing, wellness testing, toxicology testing, pain management testing. LCD also provides services to the food, beverage, nutraceutical, animal feed, chemical and agrochemical industries, which include nutritional analysis and equivalency, nutritional content fact labels, microbiological and chemical contaminant safety analysis, product development expertise, sensory testing, pilot manufacturing, pesticide screening and stability testing. 

LCD&#8217;s Specialty Testing Group performs esoteric testing, cancer diagnostics, and other complex procedures. LCD's specialty testing businesses and their areas of expertise are summarized in the chart below. 

The Specialty Testing Group offers advanced methods and access to scientific expertise in the following disciplines: 

Anatomic Pathology/Oncology. LCD offers advanced comprehensive tumor tissue analysis, including immunohistochemistry (IHC), cancer cytogenetics and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) through its Dianon Pathology and Integrated Oncology specialty testing laboratories. Applications for molecular diagnostics continue to increase in oncology for both the analysis of leukemia as well as the assessment of solid tumors. In cancers such as colon and lung cancer, assays such as KRAS, BRAF and EGFR mutation analysis can help guide appropriate therapy choices for a given patient. 

&#32;6 

Cardiovascular Disease. LCD&#8217;s cardiovascular menu includes core cholesterol tests, expanded lipid profiles, a metabolic syndrome profile and tests for thrombosis and stroke. LCD also offers complete testing for monitoring disease progression and response to therapy, including the clinical decision support (CDS) reports available through Litholink. 

Coagulation. &#32;&#32;LCD offers an extensive menu of tests for hemostasis and thrombosis, including bleeding profiles and screening tests, profiles for reproductive health, factor analysis, thrombin generation markers, and thrombotic risk evaluation. 

Diagnostic Genetics. LCD offers cytogenetic, molecular cytogenetic, biochemical and molecular genetic tests. The biochemical genetics offerings include a variety of prenatal screening options including integrated and sequential prenatal assays and non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT) for more sensitive and earlier assessment of risk for multiple fetal chromosomal aneuploidies (e.g., Down syndrome). LCD has expanded its cytogenetics offerings through the use of whole genome single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) microarray technology, which provides enhanced detection of subtle chromosomal changes associated with the etiology of mental retardation, developmental delay and autism. The molecular genetics services include multiplex analyses of a variety of disorders, gene sequencing applications for both somatic and germ-line alterations and whole exome sequencing. Through Integrated Genetics (formerly Genzyme Genetics), LCD provides the most comprehensive genetic test menu in the industry as well as approximately 140 genetic counselors and six medical geneticists to provide patients and their physicians with analysis, assessment and interpretation of genetics test results to help optimize patient decisions and outcomes. 

Endocrinology. LCD is a leading provider of advanced hormone/steroid testing including comprehensive services for the endocrine specialist. LCD has expanded its menu in esoteric endocrine testing and has launched an initiative to develop steroid testing utilizing mass spectrometry technology. Mass spectrometry is used for detection of low levels of small molecule steroids including testosterone in women, children and hypogonadal men. LCD additionally offers endocrine related tests for genetic conditions including congenital adrenal hyperplasia, short stature, thyroid cancer, along with extensive age and gender-related reference intervals for those tests. 

Infectious Disease . LCD provides complete HIV testing services including viral load measurements, genotyping and phenotyping and host genetic factors (e.g., HLA B*5701 test) that are important tools in managing and treating HIV infections. The addition of resistance tests, including PhenoSense &#174; , PhenoSenseGT &#174; , Trofile &#174; , and GenoSure PRIme complement the existing HIV GenoSure &#174; &#32;assay and provide an industry-leading, comprehensive portfolio of HIV resistance testing services. LCD also provides extensive testing services for HCV infections, including both viral load determinations and strain genotyping and host genetic factors (e.g., the IL-28B and HCV GenoSure NS3/4A tests). LCD continues to develop molecular assays for infectious disease. 

Obstetrics/Gynecology. &#32;&#32;LCD offers a comprehensive menu of women's health testing, including NuSwab &#174; high quality convenient STD testing, as well as liquid-based Pap testing with image-guided cervical cytology for improved cervical cancer detection, and out-of-the-vial Pap testing with options for human papillomavirus (HPV), chlamydia, and gonorrhea. LCD also offers tests and technologies that span the continuum of care for reproductive health, including maternal serum screening, prenatal diagnostics, ethnicity carrier screening, testing for causes of infertility or miscarriage and postnatal testing services. 

Pharmacogenetics. &#32;&#32;LCD provides access to the latest tests in the emerging field of pharmacogenetics. These tests can help physicians understand how a patient will metabolize certain drugs, allowing them to select the most appropriate therapies or adjust dosing. 

Identity . LCD provides forensic identity testing used in connection with criminal proceedings and parentage evaluation services that assist in determining parentage for child support enforcement proceedings and determining genetic relationships for immigration purposes. Parentage testing involves the evaluation of immunological and genetic markers in specimens obtained from the child, the mother and the alleged father. LCD also provides testing services in reconstruction cases, which assist in determining parentage without the presence of the parent in question. 

Occupational Testing Services . LCD provides testing services for the detection of drug and alcohol abuse for private and government customers. These testing services are designed to produce forensic quality test results that satisfy the rigorous requirements of regulated and non-regulated workplace drug testing programs. LCD also provides other analytical testing and a variety of support services. 

Chronic Disease Programs. &#32;&#32;Through Litholink, LCD uses a programmatic approach to the comprehensive treatment of chronic diseases, including kidney disease, cardiovascular disease, metabolic bone disease, diabetes, and offers CDS reports to both physicians and patients. LCD believes these chronic disease programs represent potential significant savings to the healthcare system by increasing the detection of early-stage diseases and effectively managing chronic disease conditions. 

&#32;7 

Development of New Tests 

Advances in medicine continue to fundamentally change diagnostic testing. New tests are allowing clinical laboratories to provide unprecedented amounts of health-related information to physicians and patients. New molecular diagnostic tests that have been introduced over the past several years, including a gene-based test for HPV, HIV drug resistance assays, and molecular genetic testing for cystic fibrosis, have now become part of standard clinical practice. LCD continued its industry leadership in gene-based and esoteric testing in 2015, generating more than $2.0 billion in revenue from these testing services. As science continues to advance, LCD expects new testing technologies to emerge and therefore intends to continue to invest in advanced testing capabilities so that it can remain on the cutting edge of diagnostic laboratory testing. The Company has added, and expects to continue to add, new testing technologies and capabilities through a combination of internal development initiatives, technology licensing and partnership transactions, and selected business acquisitions. Through its sales force, LCD rapidly introduces new testing technologies to physician customers. This differentiation is important in the retention and growth of business. 

In 2015, LCD continued its emphasis on scientific innovation and leadership with the introduction of significant test menu and automation enhancements. LCD is focused on the expansion of existing programs in molecular diagnostics as well as the introduction of new assay and assay platforms through licensing partnerships, acquisitions and internal development. Evidence of the commitment to the development of new diagnostics and applications for those diagnostics is evidenced by the annual publication of approximately 150 publications (e.g. articles, book chapters, books and abstracts) and presentations at scientific meetings and in presentations in academic medical center grand rounds and seminars. Examples of new tests and services introduced in 2015 include: 

Cardiovascular Disease Risk Assessment &#32;- In September 2014, LabCorp acquired LipoScience, Inc. (LipoScience), and in 2015 its services were integrated into LCD's Burlington, NC laboratory, which now provides in-house testing for NMR LDL-particles, an advanced method for the assessment of cardiovascular risk. 

Endocrine - LCD launched a mass spectroscopy based assay for thyroglobulin (in the presence of antibodies) and the Litholink CDS group developed a new Diabetes Patient Education report for patients with Type 2 Diabetes. 

Infectious Diseases - LCD launched GenoSure Archive , the first laboratory test to help optimize antiretroviral drug regimens in virally suppressed HIV patients. LCD launched two new HCV drug resistance assays, HCV NS5A and NS5B, which expand LCD's portfolio of HCV resistance tests that already included HCV GenoSure NS3/4A, launched in 2011. 

Breast Cancer Tests - LCD transitioned its suite of BRCA 1 and 2 tests, which identify gene mutations or alterations that signal an increased risk for several specific types of cancer, including breast cancer and ovarian cancer, to next-generation sequencing testing. In 2015, LCD entered into a cooperative agreement with Inserm, the French National Institute of Health and Medical Research Institution, and Quest Diagnostics to launch BRCA Share&#8482;, a novel datashare initiative to accelerate research on BRCA gene mutations. 

Coagulation - In 2015, LCD introduced a mass spectroscopy based method serotonin release assay. This assay is important for diagnosing heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and is the first non-radio labeled assay to be offered for such testing. This method shortens the turnaround time for reporting of results. 

Obstetrics and Gynecology - In 2014, LCD launched the informaSeq Prenatal Test. This test is an advanced, non-invasive, next-generation sequencing prenatal screening test that can assess risk for multiple fetal chromosomal aneuploidies, or abnormalities in the number of chromosomes, from a single maternal blood draw. Through 2015, the test has been updated to include sex chromosome determination and LCD is preparing to launch additional screening for fetal fraction determination. 

Immunotherapeutics and Oncology - &#32;In 2015, the Company played a pivotal role in the clinical trials that led to the approval of two immunotherapeutics for non-small cell lung cancer, and LCD was one of the first laboratories to offer the PD-L1 companion diagnostic and complementary diagnostic tests for those innovative therapeutics. The Company also made available the Lynch Syndrome cascade of tests for the diagnosis of inherited risk in colorectal cancer patients. 

Phlebotomy - In 2015, LCD expanded access to AccuDraw &#174; , its proprietary specimen collection and handling software) to all clients through the Company's website at www.LabCorp.com. 

Genomic Testing - LCD introduced ExomeReveal, a whole exome sequencing testing service. Increasing evidence suggests that early genetic diagnosis can improve clinical outcomes, and ExomeReveal will provide genome-wide interpretation for children with serious childhood genetic diseases as well as additional diagnostic information for patients of any age. The 2015 

&#32;8 

launch of VistaSeq provides an assessment of inherited genetic mutations within a panel of 27 genes known to be associated with hereditary cancer syndromes. 

LCD continues its collaboration with university, hospital and academic institutions such as Duke University, Johns Hopkins University, Boston University, Columbia University, Mt. Sinai Hospital and Yale University to license and commercialize new diagnostic tests. 

LCD Technology-Enabled Solutions 

LCD&#8217;s technology-enabled solutions include innovative decision support programs for chronic diseases, population health analytics tools, the LabCorp Beacon platform and Beacon LBS. These industry-leading, technology-enabled solutions are helping to improve health and improve lives by changing the way care is provided. 

During 2015, LCD delivered more than 5 million enhanced CDS reports for chronic health conditions, including kidney disease, cardiovascular disease, metabolic bone disease and diabetes. LCD&#8217;s proprietary CDS reports integrate patient-specific diagnostic information and evidence-based healthcare content to help healthcare providers and patients better manage health. In addition, these decision support programs promote physician adherence to evidence-based treatment guidelines. 

LCD also has new population health analytics programs in development to provide healthcare business intelligence tools to hospitals, physician practices, and accountable care organizations (ACOs). These tools are intended to assist customers in their compliance and reporting requirements with respect to efficient management of their productivity, quality and patient outcome metrics. LCD's robust rules engine maintains a large number of clinical quality measures that are highly customizable and support compliance with meaningful use and quality reporting requirements such as ACO standards, Joint Commission standards and the CMS Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS). Real time clinical alerts highlight gaps in care for patients and patient populations. 

The Company's centralized and proprietary LabCorp Beacon platform is a series of assets and functionalities that enhance the customer experience and provide an end-to-end lab solution. These assets and functionalities include: 

&#8226; 

Physician, patient and payer portals; 

&#8226; 

Express electronic ordering for essentially all of LCD's brands and services; 

&#8226; 

Integrated results viewing and enhanced reports; 

&#8226; 

Lab analytics that provide one-click trending of patient, test and population data; 

&#8226; 

CDS tools at the point of ordering and results; 

&#8226; 

AccuDraw and LabCorp Touch systems that provide graphical, step-by-step guidance to help improve accuracy, workflow and turnaround time in the collection and processing of specimens at the point of care; 

&#8226; 

Online appointment scheduling; 

&#8226; 

LabCorp Beacon: Mobile, which provides solutions for market leading mobile devices; and 

&#8226; 

Services-oriented architecture with rules-based engines, content aggregation and seamless integration with practice workflow. 

LCD's BeaconLBS business provides a technology-enabled solution that provides point-of-care decision support through interfaces with test ordering systems to assist physicians in lab and test selection. BeaconLBS helps physicians to order the appropriate test for the patient at the appropriate time. Physicians, patients, healthcare delivery systems and payers are expected to benefit from this innovation, which will improve the quality of lab services, support evidence-based guidelines for patient care, and more effectively manage trends without disrupting physician work flow. The BeaconLBS rules engine interfaces with payer policies for ordering, utilization, adjudication and payment. 

In 2013, BeaconLBS signed an agreement with UnitedHealthcare &#174; &#32;to implement the laboratory benefit management program in Florida utilizing BeaconLBS. UnitedHealthcare launched the laboratory benefit management program with BeaconLBS in Florida on October 1, 2014. In April 2015, BeaconLBS achieved its targeted implementation for UnitedHealthcare in Florida and LCD began recognizing revenue for providing this service. 

Billing for Laboratory Services 

Billing for laboratory services is a complicated process involving many payers such as MCOs, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians and physician groups, hospitals, patients and employer groups, all of which have different billing requirements. In addition, billing arrangements with third-party administrators may further complicate the billing process. Tests ordered by a physician may be billed to different payers depending on the medical benefits of a particular patient. Most testing services are billed to a party other 

&#32;9 

than the physician or other authorized person who ordered the test. A growing portion of the managed care fee-for-service revenues are derived from patients in the form of deductibles, coinsurance, non-covered tests and copayments. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;LCD utilizes a centralized billing system in the collection of approximately 93.6% of its domestic revenue (88.4% of consolidated LCD revenue). This system generates bills to LCD customers based on payer type. Client billing is typically generated monthly, whereas patient and third-party billing are typically generated daily. Agings of accounts receivable are then monitored by billing personnel and re-bills and follow-up activities are conducted as necessary. Bad debt expense is recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales considered necessary to maintain the allowance for doubtful accounts at an appropriate level, based on LCD's experience with its accounts receivable. LCD writes off accounts against the allowance for doubtful accounts when accounts receivable are deemed to be uncollectible. For client billing, third party and managed care, accounts are written off when all reasonable collection efforts prove to be unsuccessful. Patient accounts are written off after the normal dunning cycle has occurred and the account has been transferred to a third-party collection agency. 

A significant portion of LCD's bad debt expense is related to accounts receivable from patients who are unwilling or unable to pay. In 2015, LCD continued its focus on process and account management initiatives to reduce the negative impact of bad debt expense related to patient accounts receivable. As part of Project LaunchPad, LCD is identifying clients with high concentrations of write offs and implementing strategies to improve the financial performance of those accounts. 

Another component of LCD&#8217;s bad debt expense is the result of non-credit related issues that slow the billing process, such as missing or incorrect billing information on test requisitions. LCD vigorously attempts to obtain any missing information or rectify any incorrect billing information received from the healthcare provider. However, LCD typically performs the requested tests and returns the test results regardless of whether billing information is incorrect or incomplete. LCD believes that this experience is similar to that of its primary competitors. LCD continues to focus on process initiatives aimed at reducing the impact of these non-credit related issues by reducing the number of requisitions received that are missing billing information or have incorrect information. This is accomplished through on-going identification of root-cause issues, deploying technology-enabled solutions, training provided to internal and external resources involved in the patient data capture process, and an emphasis on the use of electronic test ordering. 

For the Company's operations in Ontario, Canada, the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care (Ministry) determines who can establish a licensed community medical laboratory and caps the amount that each of these licensed laboratories can bill the government- sponsored healthcare plan. The Ontario government-sponsored healthcare plan covers the cost of clinical laboratory testing performed by the licensed laboratories. The provincial government discounts the annual testing volumes based on certain utilization discounts and establishes an annual maximum it will pay for all community laboratory tests. The agreed-upon reimbursement rates are subject to Ministry review at the end of each year and can be adjusted at the government's discretion based upon the actual volume and mix of testing services performed by the licensed providers in the province during the year. In 2015, the amount of the Company's capitated revenue derived from the Ontario government sponsored healthcare plan was CN$189.8 million. 

Effect of Market Changes on the Clinical Laboratory Business 

The delivery of, and reimbursement for, healthcare continues to change, impacting all stakeholders, including the clinical laboratory business. Medicare (which principally serves patients who are 65 and older), Medicaid (which principally serves low-income patients) and insurers have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services. Measures to regulate healthcare delivery in general and clinical laboratories in particular have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and decreased utilization for the clinical laboratory industry by increasing complexity and adding new regulatory and administrative requirements. From time to time, government has also considered changes to the Medicare and Medicaid fee schedules, and LCD believes that pressure to reduce government reimbursement will continue. 

&#32;Fees for most laboratory services reimbursed by Medicare are established in the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule (CLFS), and fees for other testing reimbursed by Medicare, primarily related to pathology, are covered by the Physician Fee Schedule (PFS). During 2015, approximately 12.3% of LCD&#8217;s revenue was reimbursed under the CLFS (12.6% in 2014), and approximately 0.9% was reimbursed under the PFS (1.0% in 2014). Over the past several years, LCD has experienced governmental pay reductions as a direct result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA) and the Achieving a Better Life Experience Act of 2014 (ABLE Act). In addition, the Protecting Access to Medicare Act (PAMA), which became law on April 1, 2014, is expected to result in a future net reduction in reimbursement revenue under the CLFS. These laws include provisions designed to control healthcare expenses reimbursed by government programs through a combination of reductions to fee schedules, incentives to providers to participate in alternative payment models such as risk-sharing and new methods to establish and adjust fees. 

&#32;10 

During 2013, government payment reductions and molecular pathology payment issues (largely driven by payer policy changes) reduced the Company&#8217;s net revenue by more than $100.0 million. The negative impact from these reimbursement challenges was largely sustained throughout 2014 and 2015. In addition to that reduction, in 2014, LCD experienced payments reductions from CLFS of $6.0 million and from PFS of $6.6 million. During 2015, LCD had also experienced a 0.25% payment reduction under the CLFS, equal to approximately $2.0 million in net revenue, which was offset by an increase in reimbursement from the PFS of approximately $2.1 million. During 2016, LCD will receive a 0.10% payment increase under the CLFS, representing approximately $0.76 million. Further, due to reductions in the PFS, LCD will also realize a $10.7 million reduction in net revenue over the two year period of 2016 and 2017. Due to provisions outlined in PAMA and the ABLE Act, the reduction in the 2016 PFS is limited in the first year of implementation. Accordingly, $2.4 million of the total $10.7 million reduction will be implemented in 2016, with the balance of $8.3 million to be realized as a reduction in 2017. 

Under PAMA, beginning in 2017, CMS will be required to set and make adjustments to the CLFS using market-based information that reflects the scope of prices paid across the laboratory industry. On October 1, 2015, CMS issued a proposed rule to implement PAMA that would require applicable laboratories, including LCD, to begin reporting their test-specific private payer payment amounts to CMS during the first quarter of 2016. CMS intends to use that private market data to calculate weighted median prices for each test (based on applicable CPT codes) that would represent the new CLFS rates beginning in 2017, subject to certain phase-in limits. For 2017-2019, a test price cannot be reduced by more than 10.0% per year; for 2020-2022, a test price cannot be reduced by more than 15.0% per year. Reporting and pricing will occur every three years, or annually with respect to certain types of tests, to update the CLFS thereafter. 

The American Clinical Laboratory Association (ACLA) and the laboratory community provided extensive comments on the proposed rule and will continue to work with CMS to try to ensure the final regulation accurately reflects the statutory language on applicable laboratories, and results in a reimbursement framework that reflects the broad scope of the laboratory market, encourages innovation, and maintains access to laboratory services for Medicare beneficiaries. The Company continues to evaluate the potential impact of the proposed rule, but since rulemaking to implement the provisions of PAMA has not yet been finalized, it is too early to assess the impact of PAMA. 

In addition, market-based changes have affected and will continue to affect the clinical laboratory business. Reimbursement from commercial payors for diagnostic testing has shifted and will continue to shift away from traditional, fee-for-service model to alternatives including value-based, bundled pay-for-performance and other risk-sharing payment models.. The growth of the managed care sector and consolidation of MCOs present various challenges and opportunities to LCD and other clinical laboratories. In 2006, the Company signed a ten-year agreement with UnitedHealthcare to become its exclusive national laboratory. This agreement represented an industry first in terms of its length and exclusivity at a national level. In September 2011, the Company extended this agreement for an additional two years through the end of 2018. The various MCOs have different contracting philosophies, which are influenced by the design of their products. Some MCOs contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and engage in direct negotiation of rates. Other MCOs adopt broader networks with generally uniform fee structures for participating clinical laboratories; in some cases, those fee structures are specific to independent clinical laboratories while the fees paid to hospital-based and physician-office laboratories may be different, and are typically higher. In addition, some MCOs use capitation to fix the cost of laboratory testing services for their enrollees. Under a capitated reimbursement mechanism, the clinical laboratory and the MCO agree to a per member, per month payment for all covered laboratory tests provided to MCO members during the month, regardless of the number or cost of the tests performed. For the year ended December 31, 2015, capitated contracts with MCOs accounted for approximately $219.9 million, or 3.5% of LCD's net revenues. LCD's ability to attract and retain MCO clients has become even more important as the impact of various healthcare reform initiatives continue, including expanded Health Insurance Exchanges and ACOs. 

Despite the potential market changes discussed above, LCD believes that the volume of clinical laboratory testing will be positively influenced by several factors, including an expansion of Medicaid, managed care, and private insurance exchanges. In addition, LCD believe that increased knowledge of the human genome, and continued innovation in laboratory medicine, will continue to foster greater appreciation of the value of gene-based diagnostic assays. Additional factors that may lead to future volume growth include an increase in the number and types of tests that are readily available (due to advances in technology and increased cost efficiencies) for the diagnosis of disease, and the general aging of the U.S. 

LCD believes its enhanced esoteric menu, geographic footprint and operating efficiency provide a strong platform for growth. In particular, LCD believes that it will benefit from the development of and increased interest in new companion and complementary diagnostics. Companion diagnostics are tests that must be used before a patient can be treated with a specific therapeutic, to help identify if the therapeutic will be effective or if it may cause adverse events. Complementary diagnostics are not required for determining who should receive the therapeutic, but can give physicians information about a patient&#8217;s potential response to a specific therapeutic or class of therapeutics. LCD and CDD are uniquely positioned to provide the full spectrum of support for the development and commercialization of companion and complementary diagnostics and their associated treatments. 

&#32;11 

The impact of these factors is expected to be partially offset by declines in volume as a result of increased controls over the utilization of laboratory services by Medicare, Medicaid, and other third-party payers, particularly MCOs. In addition, continued movement by patients into consumer driven health plans may have an impact on the utilization of laboratory testing. 

Covance Drug Development Segment 

CDD, a leader in drug development services, provides a range of drug development solutions on a worldwide basis, primarily to companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. CDD has more than 14,000 employees worldwide and a global network of operations with offices in more than 30 countries. In addition, CDD supports trial activity in approximately 100 countries. 

&#32;Drug Development Industry 

Drug development services companies like CDD are also referred to as contract research organizations (CROs) and typically derive substantially all of their revenue from research and development (R&#38;D) as well as marketing expenditures of the biopharmaceutical industry. CDD is the only CRO offering comprehensive global drug development services from preclinical research through all phases of clinical development and into commercialization. Outsourcing of R&#38;D services from biopharmaceutical companies to CROs has significantly increased in the past, and is expected to continue increasing in the future, because of several factors, including: pressures to contain costs, limitations on internal R&#38;D capacity, the need to reduce drug development timelines, customer demand for simultaneous research in multiple countries, stringent government regulation, and therapeutic and other expertise that customers lack internally. The investment and amount of time required to develop new drugs has been increasing, and these trends create opportunities for CDD and other CROs that can help make the drug development process more efficient. 

The drug development industry has many participants ranging from hundreds of small providers to a limited number of full-service CROs with global capabilities. CDD competes against these small and full-service CROs, as well as in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, and to a lesser extent, selected universities and teaching hospitals. 

There is competition for customers on the basis of many factors, including: reputation for on-time quality performance; expertise and experience in specific areas, such as operations, technology, and therapeutic areas; scope of service offerings; strengths in various geographic markets; price; technological expertise and efficient drug development processes; ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a rapid and accurate manner; quality of relationships; ability to manage large-scale clinical trials domestically and internationally; quality of facilities; expertise and experience in market access services; and size and scale. CDD believes that it competes favorably in these areas. 

Significant competitors for CDD's drug development services include Quintiles Transnational Holdings Inc., PAREXEL International Corporation, Pharmaceutical Product Development, LLC, ICON plc, INC Research Holdings, Inc. and Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., among others. 

Early Development Services 

CDD&#8217;s early development service offerings include research models, lead optimization, analytical services, safety assessment, and chemistry manufacturing and control (CMC) services for drug development. CDD also offers solution-based approaches to early development, including access to a team of experienced program development directors and project managers to help guide strategic decisions and manage molecule development in an integrated, streamlined manner. CDD's innovations in the preclinical area include technologies for enhanced client access to data, such as: StudyTracker, electronic animal identification, multimedia study reports and animal and test tube measures of induced cell proliferation or reproduction. StudyTracker &#174; , an internet-based client access product, allows clients of toxicology, bioanalytical, metabolism and reproductive and developmental toxicology services to review study data and schedules on a near real-time basis. CDD has preclinical laboratories in the U.S., the U.K., Germany and China. 

Research Models. CDD is an Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care accredited provider of purpose-bred research models globally. Due to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other foreign regulatory bodies, safety and efficacy testing on research models is required as part of the drug development process prior to testing in humans. CDD has a strong commitment to animal welfare, and has instituted progressive enrichment practices and rigorous health testing standards that exceed industry safeguard to protect the health of CDD's models. CDD is also committed to seeking out alternatives to the use of research models where possible. CDD's research models include standard lines as well as disease state and genetically altered models to accommodate clients&#8217; needs. CDD offers purpose-bred specific pathogen 

&#32;12 

free (SPF) rabbits, canines, nonhuman primates, and other species, as well as blood and tissue products and surgical/technical services including telemetry. The purpose-bred research animals are provided to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, university research centers and CROs. 

Lead Optimization . Lead optimization services are designed to enhance the connection between in vivo pharmacology and toxicity. Lead optimization services include non-GLP toxicology, in vivo pharmacology with model development and integrated safety and efficacy capabilities, nonclinical imaging, nonclinical pathology services, pharmacokinetic/toxicokinetic (PK/TK) analysis/reporting and immunology services. 

Analytical Services . Bioanalytical testing services help determine the appropriate dose and frequency of drug application from late discovery evaluation through Phase III clinical testing on a full-scale, globally integrated basis. CDD&#8217;s analytical services offering includes liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy (LC-MS) immunoanalytical solutions and specialty support, translational biomarker solutions, discovery bioanalysis, vaccine analysis, PK/TK analysis and reporting, and organic synthesis. In addition, CDD offers a growing list of validated, nonproprietary assays for hundreds of compounds, eliminating method development and validation time, and reducing program cost. CDD has dedicated lab facilities across three continents providing in vitro drug metabolism, in vivo radiolabeled absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) studies, metabolite identification/profiling and nonclinical PK screening in addition to radiosynthesis services. CDD also provides pharmaceutical chemistry services that determine the metabolic profile and bioavailability of drug candidates. 

Safety Assessment. &#32;&#32;Safety assessment services include general, genetic, and immunotoxicology services, in addition to nonclinical pathology, safety pharmacology services and developmental and reproductive toxicology (DART) studies. CDD&#8217;s drug development services employ state-of-the-art technology and an integrated program for both large and small molecules with facilities across three continents. CDD's nonclinical pathology group is comprised of certified veterinary pathologists who provide critical insights and recommendations to help clients navigate the drug development process. CDD&#8217;s safety pharmacology services utilize Value Added Safety Pharmacology &#38; Toxicology (VAST) to economically assess pharmacology endpoints during toxicology studies to minimize safety issues during the clinical phases. DART services help clients assess the birth defect risk for potential drug candidates. 

Biopharm CMC Manufacturing. CMC offers packages supporting FDA Investigational New Drug Application and New Drug Application/Biologic License Application submissions, as well as programs to help CDD's clients meet acceptance criteria for the release of drug product for both biologics and small molecules. CMC provides well-coordinated capabilities and expertise operating within a global quality system framework to deliver robust, cost-effective solutions. Capabilities include safety, identity, strength, quality and purity assessments for biologics. 

Early Phase Development Solutions. Early Phase Development Solutions (EPDS) &#32; offers clients access to a focused, multi-disciplinary team of experts that help craft integrated solutions to rapidly identify and develop lead drug candidates and reduce development challenges. EPDS provides clients with seamless integration of the complete array of CDD nonclinical services with a focus on scientific integrity and human subject safety. EPDS also offers an innovative parallel study approach for shorter proof of concept studies; this approach can increase clinical return on investment through application of medical, scientific and therapeutic expertise, along with patient stratification strategies. 

Central Laboratory Services 

Through its global network of central laboratories in the U.S., Switzerland, Belgium, Singapore and China, CDD provides central laboratory testing services to biotechnology and pharmaceutical customers. CDD also has an alliance for central laboratory services testing in Japan with BML, Inc., a leading Japanese laboratory testing company. 

CDD&#8217;s capabilities provide clients the flexibility to conduct studies on a global basis. The data it provides can be combinable and result in global clinical trial reference ranges because CDD uses consistent laboratory equipment, methods, reagents and calibrators for studies where data is combined from different regions. Combinable data eliminates the cumbersome process of harmonizing results generated using different methods in different laboratories on different equipment. CDD also offers LabLink, an internet-based client access program that allows clients to review and query clinical trial lab data on a near real-time basis. 

CDD operates the world&#8217;s largest automated clinical trial sample collection kit production line, located in Indianapolis, Ind. This facility supplies kits and supplies to investigator sites around the world, promoting global consistency in sample collection. Extensive automation in the kit production process enables kits to be produced with 5.5 sigma precision, while maintaining the scalability needed to meet increasing global demand. CDD has a biorepository facilities in Greenfield, Ind. and Kannapolis, N.C. dedicated to long-term storage of clinical trial specimens. These facilities are able to store a wide range of specimens, including plasma, serum, whole blood, peripheral blood, DNA and tissue. 

&#32;13 

Five of CDD's central laboratories are ISO 15189 certified to provide clients with the assurance that comes with a rigorous global standard. In addition, CDD has implemented a novel model for external lab selection and management that provides rigor and reduces internal resource drain for trial sponsors. The extended laboratory management solutions team focuses on managing all aspects of referral laboratory services, including vendor negotiations, governance, quality management, data services and contract services. 

In addition to high volume safety testing, CDD offers a scientifically rich and diverse menu of specialty testing capabilities, spanning the clinical development continuum. These include applied genomics, next generation sequencing, anatomic pathology and histology, flow cytometry, clinical immunoassays and preclinical and exploratory biomarker development. CDD also offers differentiated capabilities and unparalled experience in companion and complementary diagnostic services to support the parallel development of a new medicine and its associated diagnostic assay. CDD&#8217;s dedicated team has helped develop more than two-thirds of all currently available FDA-approved companion diagnostics, and CDD was the exclusive laboratory to partner on clinical trials and regulatory submissions for three very important oncology companion diagnostics that received FDA approval in 2015. CDD can support both in vitro diagnostic (IVD) companion diagnostic development and laboratory-developed test (LDT) development. By combining CDD&#8217;s strength in central laboratory and early-stage clinical development with LCD&#8217;s strength in test commercialization, the Company is well positioned to offer comprehensive, end-to-end support for companion diagnostic development. 

Clinical Development and Commercialization Services 

CDD offers a comprehensive range of clinical trial services, including the full management of Phase I through IV clinical studies. CDD has extensive experience in all significant therapeutic areas, and provides the following core services either on an individual or aggregated basis to meet its clients&#8217; needs: study design and modeling; coordination of study activities; trial logistics; monitoring of study site performance; clinical data management and biostatistical analysis; and medical writing and regulatory services. 

CDD has extensive experience in designing and managing global clinical trials and regional clinical trial activities in North America, Europe, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region. These trials may be conducted separately or simultaneously as part of a multinational or global development plan. CDD can manage every aspect of clinical trials from clinical development plans and protocol design to new drug applications and other supporting services. 

CDD provides clinical pharmacology services, including first-in-human trials, and early patient proof of concept studies of new pharmaceuticals at its five clinics located throughout the U.S. and Europe. 

CDD offers a range of commercialization solutions, which include life cycle management and post-approval studies, which are typically conducted after a drug has successfully undergone clinical efficacy and safety testing and the New Drug Application has been submitted to the FDA and/or other regulatory bodies. CDD also offers market access solutions, including reimbursement consulting and hotlines, patient assistance programs, health economic and outcomes research services, observational studies, real world evidence and analytics services, and value communication services. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies purchase these services to serve patients in need of therapy and to help optimize their return on R&#38;D investments. 

CDD Technology-Enabled Solutions 

CDD&#8217;s Xcellerate &#174; &#32;informatics platform integrates multiple sources of data to deliver unique and timely information throughout the course of client studies. Xcellerate is a technology-enabled platform designed by CDD to help reduce the cost, time, complexity and risk associated with clinical trials. Key Xcellerate modules include Forecasting &#38; Site Selection, Clinical Trial Management, Monitoring, and Insights. Xcellerate Forecasting &#38; Site Selection enables clients to make more predictive choices to identify the optimal sites and investigators by drawing on the world&#8217;s largest proprietary clinical trial knowledge base. Xcellerate Clinical Trial Management provides near real time information on trial results and execution. Xcellerate Monitoring enables clients to proactively identify and mitigate risks by monitoring medical, statistical and operational data across the client&#8217;s portfolio of clinical trials. Xcellerate Insights supports analysis of a trial&#8217;s most recent operational metrics in a secure collaborative portal. 

In addition to Xcellerate, CDD&#8217;s proprietary technology assets include CDD&#8217;s investigator database and analytic methodologies utilized to design and manage patient enrollment, site selection, and investigator selection to produce higher quality and faster clinical trials resulting in reduced costs and increased market potential for biopharmaceutical company clients. CDD and LCD are also collaborating to use LCD information to support clinical trial recruitment and post-trial monitoring. 

&#32;14 

Clients 

The Company provides testing and drug development services to a broad range of healthcare providers, biopharmaceutical companies and other customers. 

The primary client groups serviced by the Company include: 

MCOs. The Company serves many MCOs. These organizations have different contracting philosophies, that are influenced by the design of the products. Some MCOs contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and engage in direct negotiation of rates. Other MCOs adopt broader networks with generally uniform fee structures for participating clinical laboratories; in some cases, those fee structures are specific to independent clinical laboratories while the fees paid to hospital-based and physician-office laboratories may be different, and are typically higher. MCO&#8217;s also may offer Managed Medicare or Managed Medicaid plans. MCOs may also offer Managed care or Managed Medicaid plans. In addition, some MCOs use capitation to fix the cost of laboratory testing services for their enrollees. Under a capitated reimbursement mechanism, the clinical laboratory and the MCO agree to a per member, per month payment for all covered laboratory tests. 

Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Companies. The Company serves hundreds of biopharmaceutical companies, ranging from the world&#8217;s largest pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to small and start-up organizations. Contracts with these institutions generally take the form of fee-for-service or fixed-price arrangements. 

Independent Physicians and Physician Groups. Physicians requiring testing for their patients are one of the Company&#8217;s primary sources of requests for testing services. Fees for clinical laboratory testing services rendered for these physicians are billed either to the physician, the patient or the patient&#8217;s third-party payer, such as an insurance company, Medicare or Medicaid. Billings are typically on a fee-for-service basis. If the billings are to the physician, they are based on a customer fee schedule and are subject to negotiation. Otherwise, the patient or third-party payer is billed at the Company's patient fee schedule, subject to third-party payer contract terms and negotiation by physicians on behalf of their patients. Patient sales are recorded at the Company&#8217;s patient fee schedule, net of any discounts negotiated with physicians on behalf of their patients, or fees made available through charity care or an uninsured patient program. Revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid billings are based on government-set fee schedules and reimbursement rules. 

Hospitals. The Company provides hospitals with services ranging from core and specialty testing to laboratory management services. Hospitals generally maintain an on-site laboratory to perform immediately needed testing for patients receiving care. However, they also refer less time-sensitive procedures, less frequently needed procedures and highly specialized procedures to outside facilities, including independent clinical laboratories and larger medical centers. The Company typically charges hospitals for any such tests on a fee-for-service basis that is derived from the Company&#8217;s client fee schedule. Fees for management services are typically billed monthly at contractual rates. 

Other Clients. The Company serves other clients, including government agencies (in addition to government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid), large employers, food manufacturers, other independent clinical laboratories that do not have the breadth of the Company&#8217;s testing capabilities and in jurisdictions where permitted, consumers who may order diagnostic testing directly. These clients typically pay on a negotiated fee-for-service basis or based on a set fee schedule. 

Capital Allocation 

The Company believes it has a strong track record of deploying capital to investments that enhance the Company's business and returning capital to shareholders. 

Since 2010, the Company has invested net cash of approximately $5.8 billion and equity of $1.8 billion in strategic business acquisitions ($2.2 billion over the same period excluding the Acquisition). These acquisitions have significantly expanded the Company&#8217;s service offerings, expanded its customer and revenue mix, and strengthened and broadened the scope of its geographic presence. The Company continues to evaluate acquisition opportunities that leverage the Company&#8217;s core competencies, complement existing scientific and technological capabilities, increase the Company&#8217;s presence in key geographic areas, and meet or exceed the Company&#8217;s financial criteria. 

On February 19, 2015, the Company completed the Acquisition, for $6,150.7 billion. Covance stockholders received $75.76 in cash and 0.2686 shares of the Company's common stock for each share of Covance common stock they owned immediately prior to the consummation of the Acquisition. Upon completion of the Acquisition, former Covance stockholders owned approximately 15.5% of the outstanding shares of the Company's stock. 

&#32;15 

Since 2003, the Company has repurchased approximately $5.9 billion in shares at an average price of approximately $69 per share. Following the announcement of the Acquisition, the Company suspended its share repurchases. The Company does not anticipate resuming its share repurchase activity until it approaches its targeted ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA of 2.5 to 1.0. However, the Company will continue to evaluate all opportunities for strategic deployment of capital in light of market conditions. During 2015, the Company repaid $500.0 million of its senior notes and $285.0 million of its term loan. In addition, the Company borrowed and repaid $460.0 million of debt within the year. 

Since 2010, capital expenditures were $1.1 billion, representing approximately 3.0% of the Company&#8217;s total net revenue during the same period. The Company expects capital expenditures in 2016 to be approximately 3.0% of net revenues primarily in connection with projects to support growth in the Company's core businesses, projects related to Project LaunchPad and further Covance integration initiatives. 

Seasonality 

The Company experiences seasonality in both segments of its business. For example, testing volume generally declines during the year-end holiday period and other major holidays. Testing volume can also decline due to inclement weather, reducing net revenues and cash flows. CDD's operations are also impacted by changes in the global economy, exchange rate fluctuations, the progress of ongoing studies and the start-up of new studies, as well as the level of expenditures made by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in R&#38;D. Given the seasonality of the business, comparison of results for successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year. 

Investments in Joint Venture Partnerships 

The Company holds investments in three joint venture partnerships, two located in Alberta, Canada, and one located in Florence, South Carolina. These businesses primarily represent partnership agreements between the Company and other independent diagnostic laboratory investors. Under these agreements, all partners share in the profits and losses of the businesses in proportion to their respective ownership percentages. All partners are actively involved in the major business decisions made by each joint venture. The Company does not consolidate the results of these joint ventures. Effective June 30, 2015, the Company liquidated its interest in a joint venture partnership that had been located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 

The first Canadian partnership is a leader in Occupational testing across Canada similar to LCD's U.S. Occupational testing services. The second Canadian partnership has a license to conduct diagnostic testing services in the province of Alberta. Substantially all of its revenue is received as reimbursement from the Alberta government's healthcare programs. In December 2013, Alberta Health Services (AHS), the Alberta government's healthcare program, issued a request for proposals for laboratory services that included the scope of services performed by the Canadian partnership. In October 2014, AHS informed the Canadian partnership that it had not been selected as the preferred proponent. In November 2014, the Canadian partnership submitted a vendor bid appeal upon the belief that there were significant flaws and failures in the conduct of the request for proposal process, which drove to a biased conclusion. AHS established a Vendor Bid Appeal Panel to hear the appeal, and the hearing was conducted in February 2015. In August 2015, AHS was directed to cancel the request for proposal process. Subsequently, the Canadian partnership entered into a one-year extension through March 31, 2017 of its existing contract with AHS. If the contract is not renewed after March 2017, then the Canadian partnership's revenues would decrease substantially and the carrying value of the Company's investment could potentially be impaired. 

Sales, Marketing and Client Service 

LCD offers its diagnostic services through a sales force focused on serving the specific needs of customers in different market segments. These market segments generally include Primary Care, Obstetrics-Gynecology, Specialty Medicine (e.g., Infectious Disease, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology and Rheumatology), Oncology and Hospitals. LCD competes primarily on the basis of quality of testing, breadth of menu, price, innovation of services, convenience and access points throughout the nation. 

CDD&#8217;s global sales activities are conducted by sales personnel in North America, Europe, South America and the Asia Pacific region. The sales force provides client coverage across the biopharmaceutical industry for services including lead optimization, preclinical safety assessment, analytical services, clinical solutions, central laboratories and market access solutions. Client segments called upon include global and regional pharmaceutical and biotech companies and academic institutions. CDD positions itself as the company that delivers Solutions Made Real &#174; to its clients, bringing high quality, innovation, scientific depth and the ability to help clients develop drugs along the entire continuum of development. 

&#32;16 

LCD's and CDD&#8217;s sales forces are compensated through a combination of salaries, commissions and bonuses at levels commensurate with each individual&#8217;s qualifications, performance and responsibilities. LCD's general sales force and CDD's sales team are responsible for both new sales and for customer retention and relationship building. LCD's general sales force is also supported by a team of clinical specialists who focus on selling esoteric testing and meeting the unique needs of the specialty medicine markets. 

Information Systems 

The Company is committed to developing and commercializing technology-enabled solutions to support its operations and change the way care is provided. The Company operates standard platforms for its core business services including laboratory diagnostics, drug development, billing, financial and reporting systems. These standard systems ensure consistency within our workflows and information as well as a high level of system availability and stability. The Company&#8217;s primary laboratory systems, including standardized support for molecular diagnostics, digital pathology and enhanced specialty laboratory solutions, is responsible for processing tests that generate approximately 93.6% of its domestic LCD revenue (approximately 88.4% of total LCD revenue) and 100% of its CDD central laboratory services revenue. The Company's centralized information systems are responsible for tremendous operational efficiencies, enabling the Company to achieve consistent, structured, and standardized operating results and superior patient care. 

In addition, LCD and CDD each offer proprietary and industry-leading information systems, which are discussed in more detail in the sections dedicated to each of those Business Segments. 

Quality 

LCD and CDD have quality management programs designed to provide that comprehensive quality systems and processes that are appropriate for their respective businesses are in place. This includes licensing, credentialing, training and competency of professional and technical staff, and internal audits. In addition to the external inspections and proficiency testing programs that may be required by regulatory agencies, systems and procedures are in place to emphasize and monitor quality. Many of the Company&#8217;s laboratories, facilities and processes are subject to on-site regulatory evaluations, external proficiency testing programs, state surveys as applicable in the U.S. and the Company's own quality audit programs. 

Quality also encompasses virtually all facets of the Company&#8217;s service, including turnaround time, client service, data integrity, patient satisfaction, and billing, as applicable. The Company&#8217;s quality assessment program includes measures that compare its current performance against desired performance goals. Using quality assessment techniques, the Company employs a variety of programs to monitor critical aspects of service to its clients and patients. 

In addition, various groups within the Company, including the Company's supply chain management department, CDD's clinical trial services global vendor management department, CDD's central laboratory services expanded laboratory management services department, and CDD's project management staff, provide oversight to monitor and control vendor products and performance, and play an essential role in the Company&#8217;s approach to quality through improvements in automation. 

&#160; LCD Customer Interaction . Processes to continually improve the customers&#8217; experience with LCD are essential. Use of technology and improvements in workflow within LCD's PSCs are helping to reduce patient wait times by expediting the patient registration process (through LabCorp Patient Appointment Scheduling) and enhance the specimen collection process (through LabCorp Touch and AccuDraw). 

&#160; Specimen Management . The use of logistics and specimen tracking technology allows the timely transportation, monitoring, and storage of specimens. The Company is continually improving its ability to timely collect, transport and track specimens from collection points to LCD locations. 

&#160; Quality Control . LCD regularly performs quality control testing by running quality control samples with known values at the same time patient samples are tested. Quality control test results are entered into LCD's computerized quality control database. In addition, results are continually monitored to detect potential analytical variances during testing. The real-time monitoring for any statistically and clinically significant analytical differences enables technologists and technicians to take immediate and appropriate corrective action prior to release of patient results. CDD operates a variety of quality control systems as appropriate for the type of work being conducted. These may include in-process and post-process quality control checks, use of control materials and reference standards, peer reviews, data review meetings, programmed data edit checks to detect variances and unusual data patterns, dual programming, and mock runs. 

&#32;17 

&#160; LCD Internal Proficiency Testing . LCD has an extensive internal proficiency testing program in which each laboratory receives samples to test. This internal proficiency program serves to test LCD's analytical and post-analytical phases of laboratory testing service including order entry, requisitioning systems, accuracy, precision of its testing protocols, and technologist/technician performance. This program supplements the external proficiency programs required by the laboratory accrediting agencies. 

&#160; Accreditation . The Company participates in numerous externally-administered quality surveillance programs, including the College of American Pathology (CAP) program. CAP is an independent non-governmental organization of board-certified pathologists that offers an accreditation program to which laboratories voluntarily subscribe. CAP has been granted deemed status authority by CMS to inspect clinical laboratories to determine adherence to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) standards. The CAP program involves both on-site inspections of the laboratory and participation in CAP's proficiency testing program for all categories in which the laboratory is accredited. A laboratory's receipt of accreditation by CAP satisfies the CMS requirement for certification. All of the Company's major diagnostic laboratories and CDD's Phase I clinical research units in Evansville, Ind. and Dallas, Texas are accredited by CAP. 

The Company's forensic crime laboratory located in Lorton, Va. is accredited to ISO/IEC 17025:2005 by the American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors, Laboratory Accreditation Board (ASCLD/LAB) in the discipline of biology and categories of nuclear DNA, mitochondrial DNA, body fluid identification and individual characteristic database testing. Under the accreditation program managed by the ASCLD/LAB, a crime laboratory undergoes a comprehensive and in-depth inspection to demonstrate that its management, operations, employees, procedures and instruments, physical plant, and security and personnel safety procedures meet stringent quality standards. 

The Company's full service forensic facilities in the U.K. are accredited to ISO/IEC 17025:2005 by the U.K. Accreditation Service in many areas of forensic analysis. These facilities provide crime scene investigative services, collecting samples for DNA analysis, mitochondrial DNA testing, microscopic analysis of tool marks and paint and other forms of forensic testing. 

The Company has multiple labs that have received ISO 15189 accreditation. ISO 15189 is an international standard that recognizes the quality and technical competence of medical laboratories. The Company has fifteen (15) accredited laboratories in the U.S. In addition, the Company has six (6) laboratories accredited to this standard outside of the U.S., and the laboratory operated for CDD pursuant to an alliance with BML, Inc. also has this accreditation. The list below reflects the Company's labs that have achieved this accreditation and the year in which they achieved it. 

&#160; 

LCD 

&#8226; 

Colorado Coagulation, Denver, Colorado - January, 2016 

&#8226; 

Dynacare-Gamma facility, Laval, Qu&#233;bec - March, 2015 

&#8226; 

LabCorp&#8217;s Regional Testing Facility, Dublin, Ohio - March, 2015 

&#8226; 

Endocrine Sciences, Calabasas, California - January, 2015 

&#8226; 

LabCorp's Regional Testing Facility, Dallas, Texas - April, 2014 

&#8226; 

LabCorp's Regional Testing Facility, Denver, Colorado - March, 2014 

&#8226; 

Integrated Genetics, Santa Fe, New Mexico - October, 2013 

&#8226; 

Integrated Genetics, Westborough, Massachusetts - September, 2013 

&#8226; 

Dynacare-Gamma facility, Montreal, Qu&#233;bec - June 2013 

&#8226; 

LabCorp's Regional Testing Facility, Phoenix, Arizona - April, 2013 

&#8226; 

LabCorp's Regional Testing Facility, Birmingham, Alabama - February, 2013 

&#8226; 

Integrated Oncology, Brentwood, Tenenssee - February, 2012 

&#8226; 

Viromed, Burlington, North Carolina - January, 2012 

&#8226; 

Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology (CMBP), Research Triangle Park, North Carolina - February, 2011 

&#8226; 

LabCorp's Regional Testing Facility, Tampa, Florida - January, 2010 

&#8226; 

Integrated Oncology, Phoenix, Arizona - September, 2009 

CDD 

&#8226; 

Covance Central Laboratory Services Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana - August, 2015 

&#8226; 

BML Covance Central Laboratory, Tokyo, Japan - March, 2015 (Operated for CDD pursuant to an alliance with BML, Inc.) 

&#8226; 

Covance Pharmaceutical Research and Development (Shanghai) Co. Ltd, Shanghai, China - March, 2015 

&#8226; 

Covance (Asia) Pte. Ltd., Singapore - June, 2014 

&#8226; 

Covance Central Laboratory Services SA, Geneva, Switzerland - October, 2013 

&#32;18 

Intellectual Property Rights 

The Company relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, nondisclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect its proprietary technology. The Company has filed and obtained numerous patents in the U.S. and abroad, and regularly files patent applications, when appropriate, to establish and protect its proprietary technology. From time to time, the Company also licenses U.S. and non-U.S. patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights or trademarks owned by others. The Company believes, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material to its business as a whole. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had over 50,000 full-time equivalent employees worldwide, approximately 19.5% of whom were employed outside of the U.S. U.S. based subsidiaries of LCD have three collective bargaining agreements, which cover approximately 648 employees. Non-US based subsidiaries of CDD have 23 collective bargaining agreements, which cover approximately 951 employees. 

&#160; 

The Company&#8217;s success is highly dependent on its ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and the Company believes that it has good working relationships with its employees. 

Regulation and Reimbursement 

General 

Because the Company operates in a number of distinct operating environments and in a variety of locations worldwide, it is subject to numerous, and sometimes overlapping, regulatory environments. Both the clinical laboratory industry and the drug development business are subject to significant governmental regulation at the national, state and local levels. As described below, these regulations concern licensure and operation of clinical laboratories, claim submission and reimbursement for laboratory services, healthcare fraud and abuse, drug development services, security and confidentiality of health information, quality, and environmental and occupational safety. 

Regulation of Clinical Laboratories 

Virtually all clinical laboratories operating in the U.S. must be certified by the federal government or by a federally-approved accreditation agency. In most cases, that certification is regulated by CMS through CLIA. CLIA requires that applicable clinical laboratories meet quality assurance, quality control and personnel standards. Laboratories also must undergo proficiency testing and are subject to inspections. 

Standards for testing under CLIA are based on the complexity of the tests performed by the laboratory, with tests classified as &#8220;high complexity,&#8221; &#8220;moderate complexity,&#8221; or &#8220;waived.&#8221; Laboratories performing high complexity testing are required to meet more stringent requirements than moderate complexity laboratories. Laboratories performing only waived tests, which are tests determined by the FDA to have a low potential for error and requiring little oversight, may apply for a certificate of waiver exempting them from most of the requirements of CLIA. All major and many smaller Company facilities hold CLIA certificates to perform high complexity testing. The Company's remaining smaller testing sites hold CLIA certificates to perform moderate complexity testing or a certificate of waiver. The sanctions for failure to comply with CLIA requirements include suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory's CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, cancellation or suspension of the laboratory's approval to receive Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. The loss or suspension of a CLIA certification, imposition of a fine or other penalties, or future changes in the CLIA law or regulations (or interpretation of the law or regulations) could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 

The Company is also subject to state and local laboratory regulation. CLIA provides that a state may adopt laboratory regulations different from or more stringent than those under federal law, and a number of states have implemented their own laboratory regulatory requirements. State laws may require that laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls, or require maintenance of certain records. 

The Company believes that it is in compliance with all applicable laboratory requirements. The Company's laboratories have continuing programs to ensure that their operations meet all such regulatory requirements, but no assurances can be given that the Company's laboratories will pass all future licensure or certification inspections. 

&#32;19 

FDA Laws and Regulations 

The FDA has regulatory responsibility over instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories. The FDA has issued draft guidance regarding FDA regulation of LDTs. There are other regulatory and legislative proposals that would increase general FDA oversight of clinical laboratories and LDTs. The outcome and ultimate impact of such proposals on the business is difficult to predict at this time. 

The FDA enforces U.S. laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing, distribution and surveillance of diagnostic products, including many of the services and products offered by the Company and many of the client services and products that CDD works on. The FDA periodically inspects and reviews the manufacturing processes and product performance of diagnostic products. The FDA has the authority to take various administrative and legal actions for non-compliance such as fines, product suspensions, warning letters, recalls, injunctions and other civil and criminal sanctions. Other countries where the Company conducts business have similar agencies and laws with which the Company must also comply. 

The operation of CDD&#8217;s preclinical laboratory facilities and clinical trial operations must conform at all times to good laboratory practice (GLP) and good clinical practice (GCP), respectively, as well as all other applicable standards and regulations. The preclinical and clinical studies that the Company conducts are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA as well as other drug regulatory agencies which may include, without limitation, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the U.K. (MHRA), the European Medicines Agency, the China Food and Drug Administration, and the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency in Japan to determine compliance with GLP and GCP as well as other applicable standards and regulations. If the FDA determines during an inspection that the Company&#8217;s equipment, facilities, laboratories, operations, or processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and conditions of GLP and/or GCP, the FDA may issue a formal notice, which may be followed by a warning letter if observations are not addressed satisfactorily. Continued non-compliance may result in the FDA seeking civil, criminal or administrative sanctions and/or remedies against the Company, including suspension of its laboratory operations. Other countries where the Company conducts business have similar laws with which the Company must also comply. 

Additionally, certain CDD services and activities, such as CMC services and manufacturing of investigational medicinal product for use in certain Phase I studies managed by CDD, must conform to current good manufacturing practice (cGMP). CDD is subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and the MHRA in order to assess, among other things, cGMP compliance. If the FDA or the MHRA identifies deficiencies during an inspection, it may issue a formal notice, which may be followed by a warning letter if observations are not addressed satisfactorily. Failure to maintain compliance with cGMP regulations and other applicable requirements of various regulatory agencies could result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, suspension of manufacturing, enforcement actions, injunctions, or criminal prosecution. Other countries where the Company conducts business may have similar laws with which the Company may also be required to comply. 

The Animal Welfare Act 

The conduct of animal research at CDD&#8217;s facilities in the U.S. must be in compliance with the U.S. Animal Welfare Act (AWA), which &#32; governs the care and use of warm-blooded animals used for research in the U.S. other than laboratory rats, mice and chickens, and is enforced through periodic inspections by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The AWA establishes facility standards regarding several aspects of animal welfare, including housing, ventilation, lighting, feeding and watering, handling, veterinary care, and recordkeeping. &#32; CDD complies with licensing and registration requirement standards set by the USDA and similar agencies in foreign jurisdictions such as the European Union and China for the care and use of regulated species. If the USDA determines that CDD&#8217;s equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable AWA standards, it may issue an inspection report documenting the deficiencies and setting deadlines for any required corrective actions. For continued noncompliance, the USDA may impose fines, suspend and/or revoke animal research licenses or confiscate research animals. 

&#160; Payment for Clinical Laboratory Services 

In 2015, LCD derived approximately 16.0% of its net revenue directly from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, LCD's other clinical laboratory testing business that is not directly related to Medicare or Medicaid nevertheless depends significantly on continued participation in these programs and in other government healthcare programs, in part because clients often want a single laboratory to perform all of their testing services. In recent years, both governmental and private sector payers have made efforts to contain or reduce healthcare costs, including reducing reimbursement for clinical laboratory services. 

Reimbursement under the Medicare CLFS and PFS are capped at different rates in each Medicare carrier's jurisdiction. State Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more than the Medicare fee schedule limit for clinical laboratory services furnished 

&#32;20 

to Medicaid recipient. Laboratories primarily bill and are reimbursed by Medicare and Medicaid directly for covered tests performed on behalf of Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries; for beneficiaries that participate in Managed Medicare and Managed Medicaid plans, laboratory bills are submitted to and paid by MCOs who manage those plans. 

As discussed previously in Item 1 of Part I, over the past several years LCD has experienced a series of reductions in payment from Medicare, and it expects to experience continued reductions through 2016 and 2017. However, rulemaking to implement PAMA has not yet been finalized, and the methods to be used by CMS to establish fees for laboratory services under the CLFS are not yet determined. Until those rules are final, the Company cannot assess the impact of further fee changes pursuant to PAMA. 

Many pathology services performed by LCD are reimbursed by Medicare under the PFS. The PFS assigns relative value units to each procedure or service, and a conversion factor is applied to calculate the reimbursement. The PFS is also subject to adjustment on an annual basis. Such adjustments can impact both the conversion factor or relative value units. The Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR), the formula formerly used to calculate the fee schedule conversion factor, would have resulted in significant decreases in payment for most physician services for each year since 2003. However, Congress intervened repeatedly to prevent these payment reductions, and the conversion factor was increased or frozen for the subsequent year. MACRA permanently replaced the SGR formula and transitioned PFS reimbursement to a value-based payment system. MACRA retroactively avoided a 21.2% reduction in PFS reimbursement that had been scheduled for April 1, 2015, and provided for PFS conversion factor increases of 0.5% from July 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, and 0.5% in each of years 2016-2019, followed by 0.0% updates for 2020-2025, and updates that vary based on participation in alternative payment models in subsequent years. These changes to the conversion factor may be offset by reductions to the relative value units, as was the case with the 2016 PFS reductions. In addition, rates will be adjusted under the new Merit-Based Incentive Payment System beginning in 2019. Approximately 0.9% of LCD's revenue is reimbursed under the PFS. 

Because a significant portion of the Company's costs are relatively fixed, further payment reductions to Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs could have a direct adverse effect on the Company's net earnings and cash flows. The Company cannot predict whether changes will be implemented that will result in further payment reductions. 

In addition to changes in reimbursement rates, LCD is also impacted by changes in coverage policies for laboratory tests. Congressional action in 1997 required HHS to adopt uniform coverage, administration and payment policies for many of the most commonly performed lab tests using a negotiated rulemaking process. The negotiated rulemaking committee established uniform policies limiting Medicare coverage for certain tests to patients with specified medical conditions or diagnoses, replacing local Medicare coverage policies which varied around the country. Since the final rules generally became effective in 2002, the use of uniform policies has improved LCD's ability to obtain necessary billing information in some cases. However, Medicare, Medicaid and private payer diagnosis code requirements and payment policies continue to negatively impact LCD's ability to be paid for some of the tests it performs. LCD also experienced delays in the pricing and implementation of new molecular pathology codes among various payers, including Medicaid, Medicare and commercial carriers. While some delays were expected, several non-commercial payers required an extended period of time to price key molecular codes and a number of those payers, mostly government entities, indicated that they would no longer pay for tests that they had previously covered. Further, several payers continue to require additional information to process claims or have implemented prior authorization policies. Many commercial payers were delayed in becoming aware of the impact of their claim edits and policies which impeded access to services that previously have been covered and reimbursed. These issues had a negative impact on revenue, revenue per requisition, margins and cash flows, which were largely sustained in the years 2013 through 2015, and are expected to have a continuing negative impact. Similarly, CLFS coding and billing changes related to toxicology and other procedures were implemented in 2015 and Palmetto implemented a revised Drugs of Abuse Local Coverage Policy which impacted the handling of such procedures for Medicaid and MCOs. The Company experienced delays in the pricing and implementation of the new toxicology codes, however, largely overcame issues related to price and margins through direct negotiation with the associated payers. Further coding and billing changes related to toxicology testing and other procedure types are to be implemented in 2016. The Company expects delays in the pricing and implementation of these new codes and it is unclear what impact will be experienced related to price and margins. 

Future changes in national, state and local laws and regulations (or in the interpretation of current regulations) affecting government payment for clinical laboratory testing could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Based on currently available information, the Company is unable to predict what type of changes in legislation or regulations, if any, will occur. 

Standard Electronic Transactions, Security and Confidentiality of Health Information and Other Personal Information 

In the U.S., the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) was designed to address issues related to the security and confidentiality of health information. In an effort to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the healthcare system by facilitating the electronic exchange of information in certain financial and administrative transactions, HIPAA regulations 

&#32;21 

were promulgated. These regulations apply to health plans, healthcare providers that conduct standard transactions electronically and healthcare clearinghouses (covered entities). Five such regulations have been finalized: (i) the Transactions and Code Sets Rule; (ii) the Privacy Rule; (iii) the Security Rule; (iv) the Standard Unique Employer Identifier Rule, which requires the use of a unique employer identifier in connection with certain electronic transactions; and (v) the National Provider Identifier Rule, which requires the use of a unique healthcare provider identifier in connection with certain electronic transactions. 

The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the current Transactions and Code Sets Rule. The Company implemented Version 5010 of the HIPAA Transaction Standards and believes it has fully adopted the ICD-10-CM code set. The costs associated with ICD-10-CM Code Set were substantial, and failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to apply the new code set could have had an adverse impact on reimbursement, days sales outstanding and cash collections in 2015 and forward. While to date the Company has not experienced any sustained disruption in receipts or indications of substantive reductions to reimbursement and net revenues related to the implementation of the ICD-10-CM code set, future application of restrictive clinical or payment policies could negatively impact the Company. The Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations for electronic funds transfers and remittance advice transactions. 

The Privacy Rule regulates the use and disclosure of protected health information (PHI) by covered entities. It also sets forth certain rights that an individual has with respect to his or her PHI maintained by a covered entity, such as the right to access or amend certain records containing PHI or to request restrictions on the use or disclosure of PHI. The Privacy Rule requires covered entities to contractually bind third parties, known as business associates, in the event that they perform an activity or service for or on behalf of the covered entity that involves access to PHI. The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of the HIPAA Privacy Rule. 

The Security Rule establishes requirements for safeguarding patient information that is electronically transmitted or electronically stored. The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of the HIPAA Security Rule. 

The U.S. Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), which was enacted in February 2009, strengthens and expands the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules and their restrictions on use and disclosure of PHI. HITECH includes, but is not limited to, prohibitions on exchanging PHI for remuneration and additional restrictions on the use of PHI for marketing. HITECH also fundamentally changes a business associate&#8217;s obligations by imposing a number of Privacy Rule requirements and a majority of Security Rule provisions directly on business associates that were previously only directly applicable to covered entities. Moreover, HITECH requires covered entities to provide notice to individuals, HHS, and, as applicable, the media when unsecured PHI is breached, as that term is defined by HITECH. Business associates are similarly required to notify covered entities of a breach. The omnibus HIPAA regulation implementing most of the HITECH provisions was issued in January 2013 and made significant changes to the HIPAA Privacy, Security, Enforcement, and Breach Notification Rules. Compliance with most of the changes became required on September 23, 2013. The Company believes its policies and procedures are fully compliant with the HITECH requirements. 

&#32;On February 6, 2014, CMS and HHS published final regulations that amended the HIPAA Privacy Rule to provide individuals (or their personal representatives) with the right to receive copies of their test reports from laboratories subject to HIPAA, or to request that copies of their test reports be transmitted to designated third parties. Previously laboratories that were CLIA-certified or CLIA-exempt were not subject to the provision in the Privacy Rule that provides individuals with the right of access to PHI. The HIPAA Privacy Rule amendment resulted in the preemption of a number of state laws that prohibit a laboratory from releasing a test report directly to the individual. The Company revised its policies and procedures to comply with these new access requirements and has updated its privacy notice to reflect individuals&#8217; new access rights under this final rule. 

The Standard Unique Employer Identifier Rule requires that employers have standard national numbers that identify them on standard transactions. The Employer Identification Number (also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number) issued by the Internal Revenue Service was selected as the identifier for employers and was adopted effective July 30, 2002. The Company believes it is in compliance with these requirements. 

The administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA mandate the adoption of standard unique identifiers for healthcare providers. The intent of these provisions is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the electronic transmission of health information. The National Provider Identifier Rule requires that all HIPAA-covered healthcare providers, whether they are individuals or organizations, must obtain a National Provider Identifier (NPI) to identify themselves in standard HIPAA transactions. NPI replaces the unique provider identification number and other provider numbers previously assigned by payers and other entities - for the purpose of identifying providers in standard electronic transactions. The Company believes that it is in compliance with the HIPAA National Provider Identification Rule in all material respects. 

&#32;22 

The total cost associated with meeting the requirements of HIPAA and HITECH is not expected to be material to the Company&#8217;s operations or cash flows. However, future regulations and interpretations of HIPAA and HITECH could impose significant costs on the Company. 

In addition to the HIPAA regulations described above, there are a number of other national, state and foreign laws regarding the confidentiality and security of medical information, some of which apply to clinical laboratories and CROs. These laws vary widely but they most commonly regulate or restrict the collection, use and disclosure of medical and financial information and other personal information. In some cases, state laws are more restrictive and, therefore, are not preempted by HIPAA. Penalties for violation of these laws may include sanctions against a laboratory's licensure, as well as civil and/or criminal penalties. Violations of the HIPAA provisions could result in civil and/or criminal penalties, including significant fines and up to 10 years in prison. HITECH also significantly strengthened HIPAA enforcement by increasing the civil penalty amounts that may be imposed, requiring HHS to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance and authorizing state attorneys general to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations that affect the privacy of state residents. Additionally, numerous other countries have similar laws governing the collection, use, disclosure and transmission of personal and/or patient information. 

Fraud and Abuse Laws and Regulations 

Existing U.S. laws governing federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, as well as similar state laws, impose a variety of broadly described fraud and abuse prohibitions on healthcare providers, including clinical laboratories. These laws are interpreted liberally and enforced aggressively by multiple government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice, HHS&#8217; Office of Inspector General (OIG), and various state agencies. Historically, the clinical laboratory industry has been the focus of major governmental enforcement initiatives. The U.S. government's enforcement efforts have been increasing over the past decade, in part as a result of the enactment of HIPAA, which included several provisions related to fraud and abuse enforcement, including the establishment of a program to coordinate and fund U.S., state and local law enforcement efforts. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 also included new requirements directed at Medicaid fraud, including increased spending on enforcement and financial incentives for states to adopt false claims act provisions similar to the U.S. False Claims Act. Recent amendments to the False Claims Act, as well as other enhancements to the U.S. fraud and abuse laws enacted as part of the ACA, are widely expected to further increase fraud and abuse enforcement efforts. For example, the ACA established an obligation to report and refund overpayments from Medicare within 60 days of identification; failure to comply with this new requirement can give rise to additional liability under the False Claims Act and Civil Monetary Penalties statute. On February 16, 2012, CMS issued a proposed rule to establish regulations addressing the reporting and returning of overpayments. On February 11, 2016, CMS issued the final rule defining when an overpayment is identified and adopted a six-year lookback period. The rule is effective 30 days from the publication date. 

The U.S. healthcare programs' Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits knowingly providing anything of value in return for, or to induce the referral of, Medicare, Medicaid or other U.S. healthcare program business. Violations can result in imprisonment, fines, penalties, and/or exclusion from participation in U.S. healthcare programs. The OIG has published &#8220;safe harbor&#8221; regulations which specify certain arrangements that are protected from prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute if all conditions of the relevant safe harbor are met. Failure to fit within a safe harbor does not necessarily constitute a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute; rather, the arrangement would be subject to scrutiny by regulators and prosecutors and would be evaluated on a case by case basis. Many states have their own Medicaid anti-kickback laws and several states also have anti-kickback laws that apply to all payers (i.e., not just government healthcare programs). 

From time to time, the OIG issues alerts and other guidance on certain practices in the healthcare industry that implicate the Anti-Kickback Statute or other fraud and abuse laws. Examples of such guidance documents particularly relevant to the Company and its operations follow. 

In October 1994, the OIG issued a Special Fraud Alert on arrangements for the provision of clinical laboratory services. The Fraud Alert set forth a number of practices allegedly engaged in by some clinical laboratories and healthcare providers that raise issues under the U.S. fraud and abuse laws, including the Anti-Kickback Statute. These practices include: (i) providing employees to furnish valuable services for physicians (other than collecting patient specimens for testing) that are typically the responsibility of the physicians&#8217; staff; (ii) offering certain laboratory services at prices below fair market value in return for referrals of other tests which are billed to Medicare at higher rates; (iii) providing free testing to physicians&#8217; managed care patients in situations where the referring physicians benefit from such reduced laboratory utilization; (iv) providing free pick-up and disposal of bio-hazardous waste for physicians for items unrelated to a laboratory&#8217;s testing services; (v) providing general-use facsimile machines or computers to physicians that are not exclusively used in connection with the laboratory services; and (vi) providing free testing for healthcare providers, their families and their employees (i.e., so-called &#8220;professional courtesy&#8221; testing). The OIG emphasized in the Special Fraud Alert that when one purpose of such arrangements is to induce referrals of program-reimbursed laboratory 

&#32;23 

testing, both the clinical laboratory and the healthcare provider (e.g., physician) may be liable under the Anti-Kickback Statute, and may be subject to criminal prosecution and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. More recently, in June 2014, the OIG issued another Special Fraud Alert addressing compensation paid by laboratories to referring physicians for blood specimen processing and for submitting patient data to registries. This Special Fraud Alert reiterates the OIG's long-standing concerns about payments from laboratories to physicians in excess of the fair market value of the physician's services and payments that reflect the volume or value of referrals of federal U.S. program business. 

Another issue the OIG has expressed concern about involves the provision of discounts on laboratory services billed to customers in return for the referral of U.S. healthcare program business. In a 1999 Advisory Opinion, the OIG concluded that a proposed arrangement whereby a laboratory would offer physicians significant discounts on non-U.S. healthcare program laboratory tests might violate the Anti-Kickback Statute. The OIG reasoned that the laboratory could be viewed as providing such discounts to the physician in exchange for referrals by the physician of business to be billed by the laboratory to Medicare at non-discounted rates. The OIG indicated that the arrangement would not qualify for protection under the discount safe harbor to the Anti-Kickback Statute because Medicare and Medicaid would not get the benefit of the discount. Similarly, in a 1999 correspondence, the OIG stated that if any direct or indirect link exists between a discount that a laboratory offers to a skilled nursing facility for tests covered under Medicare&#8217;s payments to the skilled nursing facility and the referral of tests billable by the laboratory under Medicare Part B, then the Anti-Kickback Statute would be implicated. 

The OIG also has issued guidance regarding joint venture arrangements that may be viewed as suspect under the Anti-Kickback Statute. These documents have relevance to clinical laboratories that are part of (or are considering establishing) joint ventures with potential sources of U.S. healthcare program business. The first guidance document, which focused on investor referrals to such ventures was issued in 1989 and another concerning contractual joint ventures was issued in April 2003. Some of the elements of joint ventures that the OIG identified as &#8220;suspect&#8221; include: arrangements in which the capital invested by the physicians is disproportionately small and the return on investment is disproportionately large when compared to a typical investment; specific selection of investors who are in a position to make referrals to the venture; and arrangements in which one of the parties to the joint venture expands into a line of business that is dependent on referrals from the other party (sometimes called &#8220;shell&#8221; joint ventures). In a 2004 advisory opinion, the OIG expressed concern about a proposed joint venture in which a laboratory company would assist physician groups in establishing off-site pathology laboratories. The OIG indicated that the physicians' financial and business risk in the venture was minimal and that the physicians would contract out substantially all laboratory operations, committing very little in the way of financial, capital, or human resources. The OIG was unable to exclude the possibility that the arrangement was designed to permit the laboratory to pay the physician groups for their referrals, and, therefore, was unwilling to find that the arrangement fell within a safe harbor or had sufficient safeguards to protect against fraud or abuse. 

Violations of other fraud and abuse laws can also result in exclusion from participation in U.S. healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. One basis for such exclusion is an individual or entity&#8217;s submission of claims to Medicare or Medicaid that are substantially in excess of that individual or entity&#8217;s usual charges for like items or services. In 2003, the OIG issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that would have defined the terms &#8220;usual charges&#8221; and &#8220;substantially in excess&#8221; in ways that might have required providers, including LCD, to either lower their charges to Medicare and Medicaid or increase charges to certain other payers to avoid the risk of exclusion. On June 18, 2007, however, the OIG withdrew the proposed rule, saying it preferred to continue evaluating billing patterns on a case-by-case basis. In its withdrawal notice, the OIG also said it &#8220;remains concerned about disparities in the amounts charged to Medicare and Medicaid when compared to private payers,&#8221; that it continues to believe its exclusion authority for excess charges &#8220;provides useful backstop protection for the public fisc from providers that routinely charge Medicare or Medicaid substantially more than their other customers&#8221; and that it will continue to use &#8220;all tools available &#8230; to address instances where Medicare or Medicaid are charged substantially more than other payers.&#8221; Thus, although the OIG did not proceed with its rulemaking, an enforcement action under this statutory exclusion basis is possible and, if pursued, could have an adverse effect on the Company. The enforcement by Medicaid officials of similar state law restrictions also could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 

Under another U.S. statute, known as the Stark Law or &#8220;self-referral&#8221; prohibition, physicians who have a financial or a compensation relationship with a clinical laboratory may not, unless an exception applies, refer Medicare patients for testing to the laboratory, regardless of the intent of the parties. Similarly, laboratories may not bill Medicare for services furnished pursuant to a prohibited self-referral. There are several Stark Law exceptions that are relevant to arrangements involving clinical laboratories, including: i) fair market value compensation for the provision of items or services; ii) payments by physicians to a laboratory for clinical laboratory services; iii) an exception for certain ancillary services (including laboratory services) provided within the referring physician's own office, if certain criteria are satisfied; iv) physician investment in a company whose stock is traded on a public exchange and has stockholder equity exceeding $75.0 million; and v) certain space and equipment rental arrangements that are set at a fair market value rate and satisfy other requirements. All of the requirements of a Stark Law exception must be met in order for the exception to apply. Many states have their own self-referral laws as well, which in some cases apply to all patient referrals, not just Medicare. 

&#32;24 

There are a variety of other types of U.S. and state fraud and abuse laws, including laws prohibiting submission of false or fraudulent claims. The Company seeks to conduct its business in compliance with all U.S. and state fraud and abuse laws. The Company is unable to predict how these laws will be applied in the future, and no assurances can be given that its arrangements will not be subject to scrutiny under such laws. Sanctions for violations of these laws may include exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other U.S. or state healthcare programs, significant criminal and civil fines and penalties, and loss of licensure. Any exclusion from participation in a U.S. healthcare program, or any loss of licensure, arising from any action by any U.S. or state regulatory or enforcement authority, would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In addition, any significant criminal or civil penalty resulting from such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. 

Environmental, Health and Safety 

The Company is subject to licensing and regulation under national, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, and human health and safety and laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. All Company laboratories are subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to biohazard disposal of all laboratory specimens and the Company generally utilizes outside vendors for disposal of such specimens. In addition, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for healthcare employers, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV, HCV and the hepatitis B virus (HCB). These regulations, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens. Other countries where the Company conducts business have similar laws concerning the environment and human health and safety with which the Company must also comply. 

In 2012, the OSHA Hazard Communication Standard was revised based on the adoption of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) that provides criteria for the classification of chemical hazards. Updated copies of Safety Data Sheets for chemical products used across the Company were obtained prior to the effective date of June 1, 2015. 

The Company seeks to comply with all relevant environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations. Failure to comply could subject the Company to various administrative and/or other enforcement actions. 

&#160; Drug Testing 

Drug testing for public sector employees is regulated by the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), which has established detailed performance and quality standards that laboratories must meet to be approved to perform drug testing on employees of U.S. government contractors and certain other entities. To the extent that the Company&#8217;s laboratories perform such testing, each must be certified as meeting SAMHSA standards. The Company&#8217;s laboratories in Research Triangle Park, N.C; Raritan, N.J.; Houston, Texas; Southaven, Miss; and St. Paul, Minn are all SAMHSA certified. 

Controlled Substances 

The use of controlled substances in testing for drugs of abuse is regulated by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. 

Compliance Program 

The Company maintains a comprehensive, company-wide compliance program and continuously evaluates and monitors its compliance with all Medicare, Medicaid, FDA, and other rules and regulations in the U.S. and the other countries where the Company has operations. The objective of the Company&#8217;s compliance program is to develop, implement and update compliance safeguards as necessary. Emphasis is placed on developing compliance policies and guidelines, personnel training programs and various monitoring and audit procedures to achieve implementation and maintain compliance with all applicable rules and regulations. 

The Company seeks to conduct its business in compliance with all statutes, regulations, and other requirements applicable to its clinical laboratory operations and drug development business. The clinical laboratory testing industry and drug development industries are, however, subject to extensive regulation, and many of these statutes and regulations have not been interpreted by the courts. There can be no assurance that applicable statutes and regulations will not be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that would adversely affect the Company. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and the loss of various licenses, certificates, and authorizations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company&#8217;s business. 

&#32;25 

