 Item 1. Business OUR COMPANY 

We are the second largest new residential insulation installer in the United States based on our internal estimates, with a national platform consisting of over 100 locations accessing customers in all 48 continental states and the District of Columbia. We believe we have the number one or two market position for new single-family insulation installation in more than half of the markets in which we operate, based on permits issued in those markets. We also install complementary building products, including garage doors, rain gutters, shower doors, closet shelving and mirrors, which provides cross-selling opportunities to supplement our insulation installation business. 

We manage all aspects of the installation process for our customers, from our direct purchase and receipt of materials from national manufacturers, to our timely supply of materials to job sites and quality installation. Installation of insulation is a critical phase in the construction process, as certain interior work cannot begin until the insulation phase passes inspection. We benefit from our national scale, long-standing supplier relationships and a broad customer base that includes production and custom homebuilders, multi-family and commercial contractors, and homeowners. 

Our business began in 1977 with one location in Columbus, Ohio. In the late 1990s, we began our acquisition strategy with the goal of creating a national platform. Since 1999, we have successfully completed and integrated over 100 acquisitions, which has allowed us to generate significant scale and to diversify our product offerings while expanding into some of the most attractive housing markets in the United States. Over the past several years, our net revenue has increased at a more accelerated rate than our operating expenses, resulting in an improved cost structure and a more efficient and scalable operating model that has improved our financial performance and returns on invested capital. We believe we are well positioned to continue to grow our business through the ongoing housing recovery, organic growth and acquisitions. For a further discussion of our industry and trends affecting our industry, please refer to Item 7, Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Key Factors Affecting our Operating Results, in this Form 10-K. 

OUR OPERATIONS 

We manage all aspects of the installation process for our customers, from our direct purchase and receipt of materials from national manufacturers, to our timely supply of materials to job sites and quality installation: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In each of our markets, our branch management and staff foster close working relationships with local customers. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Our branch management hires and trains installers with a focus on quality, safety and timely installation. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Our branch sales staff analyzes construction plans and measures the installation jobs to prepare customer proposals that comply with local building codes and energy efficiency standards and meet customer requirements. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Our branches order and receive delivery of materials directly from national manufacturers. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Our branches break bulk and load required materials onto our vehicles for each job, and manage installer schedules to ensure timely installation that meets our customers&#146; scheduling requirements. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; For each phase of product installation, our installers prepare the job site, professionally install the materials to pass inspection, clean-up when the installation is complete and return unused materials to the branch. &#160;

Our Installation Process 

&#160;

&#160;

Our customers generally select their building products installer based on quality and timeliness of service, knowledge of local building codes, pricing, relationships and reputation in the market. For these reasons, we emphasize the importance of developing and maintaining customer relationships at the local level and rely heavily on the knowledge and experience of our branch management and staff. 

Once we are selected for an installation job, our branch staff coordinates with our customer to ensure that the job is completed in a quality manner and within the customer&#146;s production schedule. Throughout the construction process, our branch sales and supervisory staff and installation teams, which typically consist of a senior installer and one or two other installers, make frequent site visits to ensure timely and proper installation and to provide general service support. We believe a high level of service is valued by our customers and generates customer loyalty. There are typically three phases to complete an insulation installation: (i) basement insulation installation; (ii) installation of insulation in the exterior walls and air sealing of the structure; and (iii) ceiling and attic insulation installation. We also assist the builders with coordinating inspection. We believe that our ability to consistently complete our installations within a customer&#146;s production schedule is recognized by our customers and is a key component of our high level of service. 

Insulation 

Overview 

We are the second largest new residential insulation installer in the United States based on our internal estimates. Insulation installation comprised approximately 78% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. We handle every stage of the installation process, including material procurement, project scheduling and logistics, multi-phase professional installation and field quality inspection. 

Insulation Materials 

We offer a wide range of insulation materials, including: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Fiberglass Insulation &#150; Fiberglass insulation is made of fibrous glass that is held together by a thermoset resin creating insulating air pockets. It typically contains an average of 50% recycled content. It is primarily available in two forms: batts (also referred to as blankets); and loosefill (also referred to as blown in). Fiberglass is the most widely used residential insulation material in the United States. Fiberglass insulation accounted for approximately 85% of our insulation sales for the year ended December 31, 2015. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Spray Foam Insulation &#150; Spray foam insulation, which is generally a polyurethane foam, is applied at a job site by mixing two chemical components together in specialized application equipment. While typically having the highest insulating value per inch and sealing effectiveness of all insulation materials that we offer, spray foam is also typically the most expensive on an installed basis. Spray foam insulation accounted for approximately 12% of our insulation sales for the year ended December 31, 2015. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cellulose Insulation &#150; Cellulose insulation is made primarily of paper and cardboard and has a very high recycled content. Cellulose is only available in loosefill form and is blown into the structure with specialized equipment. Cellulose insulation accounted for approximately 3% of our insulation sales for the year ended December 31, 2015. Insulation Installation Applications 

Local building codes typically require insulation to be installed in multiple areas of a structure. Each of these areas is frequently referred to as a phase of the insulation installation process and requires a separate trip to the job site by our installers at different points in the construction of a structure. Building practice and the inspection process differ geographically and require our involvement at different times during the construction process. We install insulation and sealant materials in many areas of a structure, including: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Basement and Crawl Space &#150; These spaces often account for the second most energy loss in a residential structure. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Building Envelope &#150; We insulate the exterior walls of both residential and commercial structures by applying insulation on the wall or between the studs. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Attic &#150; We insulate the attics of new and existing residential structures. The attic is the area where the most energy may be lost in a home. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Acoustical &#150; Many builder or architect specifications call for acoustical insulation for sound reduction purposes in both residential and commercial structures. This product is generally installed in the interior walls to minimize sound transmission. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In each of these applications, we typically use fiberglass batts, except in attic installations where we typically install loosefill fiberglass. Garage Doors 

Some of our locations install and service garage doors and openers for new residential construction builders, homeowners and commercial customers. We offer a variety of options from some of the best-known garage door brands. We offer steel, aluminum, wood and vinyl garage doors as well as opener systems. Unlike the other products we install, the garage door business has an ongoing aftermarket service component, which represented almost one-third of the net revenue resulting from garage doors installations and service for the year ended December 31, 2015. The installation and service of garage doors comprised approximately 6% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Shower Doors, Closet Shelving and Mirrors 

Some of our locations install a variety of shower enclosures, ranging from basic sliding door designs to complex custom designs. We have the ability to meet our customers&#146; diverse needs by customizing shower enclosures by size and style according to their specifications, such as framing, hardware and glass options. We design and install closet shelving systems in select markets utilizing some of the highest quality products available from national brands. We also offer standard and custom designed mirrors for our customers. Shower doors, closet shelving and mirror installations comprised approximately 5% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Rain Gutters 

Some of our locations install a wide range of rain gutters, which direct water from a home&#146;s roof away from the structure and foundation. Rain gutters are typically constructed from aluminum or copper and are available in a wide variety of colors, shapes and widths. They are generally fabricated and assembled on the job site using specialized equipment. The installation of rain gutters comprised approximately 5% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

&#160;

Other Building Products 

Some of our locations install other complementary building products, none of which is an individually significant percentage of net revenue. Installation of other building products comprised approximately 6% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Sales and Marketing 

We seek to attract and retain customers through exceptional customer service, superior installation quality, broad service offerings and competitive pricing. Our strategy is centered on building and maintaining strong customer relationships. We also capitalize on cross-selling opportunities from existing customer relationships and identifying situations where customers may benefit from more than one of our installation service offerings. By executing this strategy, we believe we can continue to generate incremental sales volumes with new and existing customers. 

Experienced sales and service professionals are important to our customer growth and increasing our profitability. Retaining and motivating local employees has been an important component of our acquisition and operating strategies. As of December 31, 2015, we employed 406 sales professionals and our sales force has spent an average of almost a decade with our operations. The local sales staff, which is generally led by the branch manager, is responsible for maintaining relationships with our customers. These local teams work diligently to increase sales by supporting our existing customers with excellent service and value while also pursuing new customers with competitive offerings. In addition to the efforts of our sales staff, we market our product and service offerings on the internet, in the local yellow pages and through advertisements in trade journals. We primarily conduct our marketing using local trademarks and trade names. 

Quality Control and Safety 

Our quality control process starts with the initial proposal. Our sales staff and managers are knowledgeable about our service offerings and scope of work. They are trained on manufacturers&#146; guidelines as well as state and local building codes. Our quality control programs emphasize onsite inspections, training by manufacturers and various certification programs. 

We consider risk management and safety to be a core business objective. Significant staffing, funding and other resources are allocated to our management that directly impact quality and safety for our employees and our customers. Our branch managers are held accountable for the safety of employees and quality of workmanship at their locations. We provide our employees with ongoing training and development programs necessary to improve work quality and safety performance. 

BUSINESS STRATEGY 

We believe our geographic footprint, long-standing relationships with national insulation manufacturers, streamlined value chain structure and proven track record of successful acquisitions provides us with opportunities for continued growth in our existing markets and expansion into new markets. We believe we are well positioned to further improve our profitability and results in 2016 and will continue to emphasize the following strategic business objectives in 2016: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; capitalize on the new home construction market recovery; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; continue to strengthen our market share position by working with the best customers; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; pursue value enhancing acquisitions by being disciplined in our approach to valuations and pricing; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; obtain additional value from our operating leverage and national scale. &#160;

&#160;

However, we can provide no assurance that the positive trends reflected in our financial and operating results for 2015 and 2014 will continue in 2016. 

CUSTOMERS 

We serve a broad group of national, regional and local homebuilders, multi-family and commercial builders, individual homeowners and repair and remodeling contractors. Our top ten customers, which are a combination of national and regional builders, accounted for approximately 14% of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. No single customer accounted for more than 4% of net revenue during the year ended December 31, 2015. 

BACKLOG 

Due to our customers&#146; strict demand for timely installation of our products, our installation jobs are scheduled and completed within a short timeframe. We do not consider backlog material to our business. 

SUPPLIERS 

We have long-term relationships with many of our suppliers and have not experienced any significant disruption in the supply of any of the primary materials we purchase and install. As one of the largest purchasers of fiberglass and spray foam insulation in the United States, we maintain particularly strong relationships with the largest manufacturers of these insulation products. The proximity of certain of our branch locations to insulation manufacturers&#146; facilities provides additional mutual benefits, including opportunities for cost savings and joint planning regarding future production. Due to the limited number of large insulation manufacturers, our three largest suppliers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 45% of all material purchases for the year ended December 31, 2015. We also maintain good relationships with suppliers of the non-insulation products we install. We believe that the pricing, terms and rebates we receive from our suppliers, as well as supply assurance, are favorable. We have found that using multiple suppliers helps to ensure a stable source of materials and favorable purchasing terms as suppliers compete to gain and maintain our business. In addition, our national purchasing volumes provide leverage with suppliers. We continue to pursue additional procurement cost savings and purchasing synergies. 

SEASONALITY 

We tend to have higher sales during the second half of the year as our homebuilder customers complete construction of homes placed under contract for sale in the traditionally stronger spring selling season. In addition, some of our larger branches operate in states impacted by winter weather and, as such, experience a slowdown in construction activity during the first quarter of the calendar year. This winter slowdown contributes to traditionally lower sales and profitability in our first quarter. 

The composition and level of our working capital typically change during periods of increasing sales as we carry more inventory and receivables, although these changes are generally offset in part by higher trade payables to our suppliers. Working capital levels typically increase in the summer and fall seasons due to higher sales during the peak of residential construction activity. The subsequent collection of receivables and reduction in inventory levels during the winter months has typically positively impacted cash flow. In the past, from time to time, we have utilized our borrowing availability under our credit facilities to cover short-term working capital needs. 

COMPETITION 

We believe that competition in our industry is based on quality and timeliness of service, knowledge of local building codes, pricing, relationships and reputation in the market. We are the second largest new residential installer of insulation in the United States based on our internal estimates. The building products installation industry is fragmented. The markets for our non-insulation installation services are even more fragmented than the markets for insulation installation services. Our competitors include two other large national contractors, 

&#160;

several large regional contractors and numerous local contractors. We expect to continue to effectively compete in our local markets given our long standing customer relationships, access to capital, tenure and quality of local staff, quality installation reputation and competitive pricing. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 4,510 employees, consisting of 3,195 installers, 406 sales professionals, 231 production personnel and 678 administrative and management personnel. Fewer than 20 of our employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. We have never experienced a work stoppage or strike, and we believe that we have good relationships with our employees. 

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 

JobCORE is our web-enabled internal software technology designed to enhance the effectiveness of our operations and management. In addition, we integrate jobCORE into our acquired operations. The jobCORE software provides in-depth operational and financial performance data from individual branches to the corporate office. JobCORE provides us, our branch managers and our salespeople with an important operational tool for monitoring branch level performance. It assists management in assessing important business questions, including customer analysis, sales staff analysis, branch analysis and other operating activities. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

We possess intellectual property rights, including trademarks, trade names and know-how and other proprietary rights that are important to our business. In particular, we maintain registered trademarks and trade names, some of which are the trademarks and trade names under which many of our local branches operate. While we do not believe our business is dependent on any one of our trademarks or trade names, we believe that our trademarks and trade names are important to the development and conduct of our business as well as to the local marketing of our services. We also maintain domain name registrations for each of our local branch websites. We make efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, although the actions we take may be inadequate to prevent others from using similar intellectual property. In addition, third parties may assert claims against our use of intellectual property and we may be unable to successfully resolve such claims. 

ENVIRONMENTAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to our relationships with our employees, public health and safety, work place safety, transportation, zoning and fire codes. We strive to operate in accordance with applicable laws, codes and regulations. 

Our transportation operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Transportation, or DOT, which has broad administrative powers. We are also subject to safety requirements governing interstate operations prescribed by the DOT. In addition, vehicle dimension and weight and driver hours of service are subject to both federal and state regulation. Our operations are also subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Labor&#146;s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, which has broad administrative powers regarding workplace and jobsite safety. 

Our operations and properties are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of hazardous or toxic materials, substances, waste and petroleum products and the investigation, remediation, removal and monitoring of the presence or release of such materials, substances, waste and petroleum products, including at currently or formerly owned or occupied premises and off-site disposal locations. We have not previously incurred material costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. However, we could be subject to material costs, liabilities or claims relating to environmental compliance in the future, especially in the event of changes in existing laws and regulations or in their interpretation or enforcement. 

&#160;

As the nature of our business involves the use or handling of certain potentially hazardous or toxic substances, including spray foam applications and lead-based paint, we may be held liable for claims alleging injury or damage resulting from the release of or exposure to such substances, as well as claims relating to the presence of mold, fungal growth and moisture intrusion alleged in connection with our business activities. In addition, as owners and lessees of real property, we may be held liable for, among other things, releases of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products on, at, under or emanating from currently or formerly owned or operated properties, or any off-site disposal locations, or for any known or newly discovered environmental conditions at or relating to any of our properties, including those arising from activities conducted by previous occupants or at adjoining properties, without regard to whether we knew of or were responsible for such release. We may be required to investigate, remove, remediate or monitor the presence or release of such hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products and may be held liable by a governmental entity for fines and penalties or to any third parties for damages, including for bodily injury, property damage and natural resource damage in connection with the presence or release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products. 

To date, costs to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to pollution or the protection of human health and safety, the environment and natural resources have not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results, and we do not anticipate incurring material expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations in the current fiscal year. 

In conjunction with our lease agreements and other transactions, we often provide reasonable and customary indemnities relating to various matters, including environmental issues. To date, we have not had to pay a material amount pursuant to any such indemnification obligations. 

In addition, our suppliers are subject to various laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations. 

CORPORATE AND AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Installed Building Products, Inc. is a Delaware corporation formed on October 28, 2011. Installed Building Products, Inc. is a holding company that derives all of its operating income from its subsidiaries. Our principal executive offices are located at 495 South High Street, Suite 50, Columbus, Ohio 43215. Our main telephone number is (614) 221-3399. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#147;IBP.&#148; Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms &#147;IBP,&#148; &#147;the company,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us&#148; and &#147;our&#148; in this Form 10-K refer to Installed Building Products, Inc. and its subsidiaries. 

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. These filings are available to the public on the SEC&#146;s website at www.sec.gov. Our periodic reports and any other information that we file with the SEC may be inspected without charge and copied at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our corporate website is located at www.installedbuildingproducts.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investors.installedbuildingproducts.com. Copies of our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with or furnish it electronically to the SEC. 

We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, and press and earnings releases as part of our investor relations website. We have used, and intend to continue to use, our investor relations website 

&#160;

as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading &#147;Corporate Governance.&#148; The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in, or otherwise made a part of, this Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

&#160;

