 Item 1. 

Business 

Background 

First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. is a Maryland corporation organized on August 10, 1993, and is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"). We are a self-administered and fully integrated real estate company which owns, manages, acquires, sells, develops, and redevelops industrial real estate. As of December 31, 2015, our in-service portfolio consisted of 234 light industrial properties, 78 R&#38;D/flex properties, 167 bulk warehouse properties and 101 regional warehouse properties containing an aggregate of approximately 61.6 million square feet of gross leasable area ("GLA") located in 25 states. Our in-service portfolio includes all properties other than developed, redeveloped and acquired properties that have not yet reached stabilized occupancy (generally defined as properties that are 90% leased). 

We began operations on July 1, 1994. The Company's operations are conducted primarily through the Operating Partnership, of which the Company is the sole general partner, with an approximate 96.3% and 96.2% ownership interest at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Operating Partnership conducts operations itself and through eight other limited partnerships (the "Other Real Estate Partnerships"), numerous limited liability companies ("LLCs") and certain taxable REIT subsidiaries, the operating data of which, together with that of the Operating Partnership is consolidated with that of the Company as presented herein. The Company does not have any significant assets or liabilities other than its investment in the Operating Partnership and its 100% ownership interest in the general partners of the Other Real Estate Partnerships. 

Profits, losses and distributions of the Operating Partnership, the LLCs and the Other Real Estate Partnerships are allocated to the general partner and the limited partners or the members, as applicable, of such entities in accordance with the provisions contained within their respective organizational documents. 

We also provide various services to two joint ventures (the "2003 Net Lease Joint Venture" and the "2007 Europe Joint Venture"; collectively, the "Joint Ventures"). Our noncontrolling equity ownership interests in the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture and the 2007 Europe Joint Venture are 15% and 10%, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture sold its last remaining industrial property comprising approximately 0.8 million square feet of GLA. At December 31, 2015, the 2007 Europe Joint Venture did not own any properties. The Joint Ventures are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. 

&#32;We utilize an operating approach which combines the effectiveness of decentralized, locally based property management, acquisition, sales and development functions with the cost efficiencies of centralized acquisition, sales and development support, capital markets expertise, asset management and fiscal control systems. At December 31, 2015, we had 170 employees. 

Available Information 

We maintain a website at www.firstindustrial.com. Information on this website shall not constitute part of this Form 10-K. Copies of our respective annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports are available without charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. You may also read and copy any document filed at the public reference facilities of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference facilities. These documents also may be accessed through the SEC&#8217;s Interactive Data Electronic Application via the SEC's home page on the Internet (www.sec.gov). In addition, the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee Charter, along with supplemental financial and operating information prepared by us, are all available without charge on the Company's website or upon request to the Company. Amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that apply to our executive officers or directors will also be posted to our website. We also post or otherwise make available on our website from time to time other information that may be of interest to our investors. Please direct requests as follows: 

First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. 

311 S. Wacker Drive, Suite 3900 

Chicago, IL 60606 

Attention: Investor Relations 

Business Objectives and Growth Plans 

Our fundamental business objective is to maximize the total return to the Company's stockholders and the Operating Partnership's partners through distributions and increases in the value of our properties and operations. Our long-term business growth plans include the following elements: 

&#8226; 

Internal Growth. We seek to grow internally by (i) increasing revenues by renewing or re-leasing spaces subject to expiring leases at higher rental levels; (ii) increasing occupancy levels at properties where vacancies exist and maintaining occupancy elsewhere; (iii) controlling and minimizing property operating and general and administrative expenses; and (iv) renovating existing properties. 

&#8226; 

External Growth. We seek to grow externally through (i) the development of industrial properties; (ii) the acquisition of portfolios of industrial properties or individual properties which meet our investment parameters within our target markets; (iii) the expansion of our properties; and (iv) possible additional joint venture investments. 

&#8226; 

Portfolio Enhancement. &#32;We continually seek to upgrade our overall portfolio via new investments as well as through the sale of select assets that we believe do not exhibit favorable characteristics for long-term cash flow growth. 

Our ability to pursue our long-term growth plans is affected by market conditions and our financial condition and operating capabilities. See "Summary of Significant Transactions in 2015" under Item 7,"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

Business Strategies 

We utilize the following six strategies in connection with the operation of our business: 

&#8226; 

Organizational Strategy. We implement our decentralized property operations strategy through the deployment of experienced regional management teams and local property managers. We provide acquisition, development and financing assistance, asset management oversight and financial reporting functions from our headquarters in Chicago, Illinois to support our regional operations. We believe the size of our portfolio enables us to realize operating efficiencies by spreading overhead among many properties and by negotiating purchasing discounts. 

&#8226; 

Market Strategy. Our market strategy is to concentrate on the top industrial real estate markets in the United States. These markets have one or more of the following characteristics: (i) favorable industrial real estate fundamentals, including improving industrial demand and constrained supply that can lead to long-term rent growth; (ii) warehouse distribution markets with favorable economic and business environments that should benefit from increases in distribution activity driven by growth in global trade and local consumption; and (iii) sufficient size to provide ample opportunity for growth through incremental investments as well as offer asset liquidity. 

&#8226; 

Leasing and Marketing Strategy. We have an operational management strategy designed to enhance tenant satisfaction and portfolio performance. We pursue an active leasing strategy, which includes broadly marketing available space, seeking to renew existing leases at higher rents per square foot and seeking leases which provide for the pass-through of property-related expenses to the tenant. We also have local and national marketing programs which focus on the business and real estate brokerage communities and multi-national tenants. 

&#8226; 

Acquisition/Development Strategy. Our acquisition/development strategy is to invest in industrial properties in the top industrial real estate markets in the United States. 

&#8226; 

Disposition Strategy. We continuously evaluate local market conditions and property-related factors in all of our markets for purposes of identifying assets suitable for disposition. 

&#8226; 

Financing Strategy. To finance acquisitions, developments and debt maturities, as market conditions permit, we may utilize a portion of proceeds from property sales, unsecured debt offerings, term loans, mortgage financings and line of credit borrowings under our $625.0 million unsecured credit facility (the "Unsecured Credit Facility"), and proceeds from the issuance, when and as warranted, of additional equity securities. As of February 24, 2016, we had approximately $356.6 million available for additional borrowings under the Unsecured Credit Facility. 

Future Property Acquisitions, Developments and Property Sales 

We have acquisition and development programs through which we seek to identify portfolio and individual industrial property acquisitions and developments. We also sell properties based on market conditions and property related factors. As a result, we are currently engaged in negotiations relating to the possible acquisition, development or sale of certain industrial properties in our portfolio. 

When evaluating potential industrial property acquisitions and developments, as well as potential industrial property sales, we will consider such factors as: (i) the geographic area and type of property; (ii) the location, construction quality, condition and design of the property; (iii) the terms of tenant leases, including the potential for rent increases; (iv) the potential for economic growth and the general business, tax and regulatory environment of the area in which the property is located; (v) the occupancy and demand by tenants for properties of a similar type in the vicinity; (vi) competition from existing properties and the potential for the construction of new properties in the area; (vii) the potential for capital appreciation of the property; (viii) the ability to improve the property&#8217;s performance through renovation; and (ix) the potential for expansion of the physical layout of the property and/or the number of sites. 

Industry 

Industrial properties are typically used for the design, assembly, packaging, storage and distribution of goods and/or the provision of services. As a result, the demand for industrial space in the United States is related to the level of economic output. Accordingly, the competition we face to lease our existing properties and acquire new properties varies with the level of economic output. 

