 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Greenhill is a leading independent investment bank that provides financial and strategic advice on significant domestic and cross-border mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, financings, capital raising and other transactions to a diverse client base, including corporations, partnerships, institutions and governments. We serve as a trusted advisor to our clients throughout the world on a collaborative, globally integrated basis from our offices in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Australia, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Canada and Brazil. 

At Greenhill, we are singularly focused on providing conflict-free advice to clients on a wide variety of complex financial matters, using our global resources to provide a combination of transaction experience, industry sector expertise and knowledge of relevant regional markets. We work seamlessly across offices and markets to provide the highest caliber advice and services to our clients. 

Greenhill was established in 1996 by Robert F. Greenhill, the former President of Morgan Stanley and former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Smith Barney. Since our founding, Greenhill has grown through recruiting talented managing directors and other senior professionals, by acquiring complementary advisory businesses and by training, developing and promoting professionals internally. We have expanded beyond merger and acquisition advisory services to include financing, restructuring, and capital advisory services, and we have expanded the breadth of our sector expertise to cover substantially all major industries. Since the opening of our original office in New York, we have expanded globally to 15 offices across five continents. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 350 &#32;employees globally, including 71 &#32;managing directors and 9 senior advisors. In January 2016 , we promoted five of our principals to managing director. 

Advisory Services 

Greenhill is a unique global investment banking firm, not only in relation to the large integrated, or "bulge bracket", institutions which engage in commercial lending, underwriting, research, sales and trading and other businesses, but also in relation to other so called "independent" investment banks, many of which engage in investment management, research and capital markets businesses, all of which can create conflicts with clients' interests. Greenhill's singular focus on advisory services differentiates us from other investment banks, and enables us to offer best-in-class service to each of our clients. 

&#8226; 

Advising clients is our only business. &#32;&#32;We do not engage in investing, trading, lending, underwriting, research or investment management businesses. Our clients' interests are our sole priority. 

&#8226; 

We provide unbiased, conflict free advice. We have no products or additional services to cross-sell and, thus, no inherent conflicts of interest. We also have no lending, prime brokerage or other relationships with activist investors. 

&#8226; 

We maintain the highest levels of confidentiality . Our advisory only business model and minimal conflicts enable us to maintain greater client confidentiality with fewer real or perceived risks of leaks. 

&#8226; 

Senior level attention is fundamental to our model . Our managing directors, who are seasoned professionals with both transaction expertise and sector and regional knowledge, are actively engaged in our client mandates from origination through execution and closing. 

&#8226; 

We offer a collaborative approach to global client service. &#32;&#32;Our professionals around the globe work together on a fully integrated, one firm-one team approach to advance the interests of our clients. 

We provide comprehensive financial advisory services primarily in connection with mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, financings, capital raising and other transactions. We also provide advice in connection with defense preparedness, activist response strategies and other mission critical situations. For all of our advisory services, we draw on the extensive experience, senior relationships and industry expertise of our managing directors and senior advisors. 

Mergers and Acquisitions. On merger and acquisition engagements, we provide a broad range of advice to global clients in relation to domestic and cross-border mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs and other strategic transactions, through all stages of a transaction's life cycle, from initial structuring and negotiation to final execution. Our focus is on providing high-quality, unbiased advice to senior executive management teams, boards of directors and special committees of prominent large and mid-cap companies and to key decision makers at governments and at large institutions on transactions that typically are of the highest strategic and financial importance to our clients. We have specialists in nearly every significant industry sector who work closely with our transaction specialists to provide the highest quality advice and transaction execution. In addition to merger and acquisition transactions, we advise clients on a full range of critical strategic matters, including activist response, defensive tactics, special committee projects, licensing deals and joint ventures. We provide advice on valuation, negotiation tactics, industry dynamics, structuring alternatives, timing and pricing of transactions, as well as financing alternatives. In appropriate situations, we also provide fairness opinions with regard to merger and acquisition transactions. 

Financing Advisory and Restructuring . &#32; Our financing advisory and restructuring practice encompasses a wide range of advisory services. In debt restructurings, we advise debtors, creditors, governments, pension funds and other stakeholders in companies experiencing financial distress, as well as potential acquirers of distressed companies and assets. We provide advice on valuation, restructuring alternatives, capital structures, financing alternatives, and sales or recapitalizations, and assist clients in identifying and capitalizing on potential incremental sources of value. We also assist those clients who seek court-assisted reorganizations by developing and seeking approval for plans of reorganization as well as the implementation of such plans. In addition to debt restructurings, we advise on a variety of other financing matters, including debt issuances, equity financings, exchange offers and spin-off transactions. We also provide advice on initial public offerings (IPOs) and other equity capital market transactions in which clients value independent advice from a knowledgeable advisor who does not stand to earn substantial underwriting or placement fees. 

Capital Advisory . In our capital advisory business, we assist general partners and sponsors in raising capital for new private funds and provide related advisory services to these entities globally. Our capital advisory group provides clients with comprehensive global marketing efforts to a diverse investor base of pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, endowments and other institutional investors worldwide and is one of the leading advisors to real estate funds globally. Through Cogent Partners, LP ("Cogent" or now known as "Greenhill Cogent"), which we acquired on April 1, 2015, we also are one of the leading global financial advisors to pension funds, endowments and other institutional investors on the secondary market for the sale of alternative assets. Greenhill Cogent advises such institutions on secondary sales of interests in private equity and similar funds, as well as providing advice to alternative asset fund sponsors for restructuring, financing, valuation and related services. 

Revenues 

Substantially all of our revenues are derived from fees paid for our advisory services, and are primarily driven by total deal volume, the number of transactions and the size of individual transactions. While fees payable upon the successful conclusion of a transaction generally represent the largest portion of our advisory fees, we also earn on-going retainer fees, substantially all of which relate to non-success based strategic advisory and financing advisory and restructuring assignments, and fees payable upon the commencement of an engagement or upon the achievement of certain milestones, such as the announcement of a transaction or the rendering of a fairness opinion. Additionally, in our capital advisory engagements, revenues are driven in primary capital raising transactions largely by the amount of capital raised and in secondary sale transactions primarily by the value of the interests transferred. We generally earn advisory fees based upon a percentage of capital committed to the fund at each interim closing and at the final closing for the amount of capital committed since the last interim closing. Our total revenues in 2015 &#32;were $261.6 million &#32;as compared to $275.2 million &#32;in 2014 . We generated 34% &#32;and 42% &#32;of our revenues in 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively, from our foreign operations. See &#8220;Note 18 - Business Information&#8221; of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our segment results and the geographic areas from which we derive our revenues. 

Since we sold our merchant banking business in 2009 to focus solely on our investment banking advisory services, we have sold substantially all of our investments in previously sponsored merchant banking funds and our previous investment in Iridium Communications Inc. (&#8220;Iridium&#8221;). As a result of these sales, a portion of our annual revenues has consisted of realized and unrealized gains (or losses) on our investments in the merchant banking funds and Iridium. With the liquidation of our principal investment portfolio substantially complete in 2014, our investment income currently consists primarily of interest income. At December 31, 2015 , our remaining investments consisted of a small group of diverse investments in merchant banking funds with an estimated fair value of $3.6 million . 

Employees 

As an independent investment bank focused solely on advisory services, our people are our primary asset. Our managing directors and senior advisors average approximately 25 years of relevant experience, which they leverage to provide the highest quality advice on a collaborative, globally integrated basis across our full range of services. Our managing directors and senior advisors are supported by a strong team of more junior professionals and we spend a significant amount of time training and mentoring our junior professionals. We seek to provide our junior professionals with broad exposure to a variety of assignments involving mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, financings, capital raisings and other transactions. This approach provides us with the flexibility to allocate resources depending on the transaction environment and provides our bankers with a wide variety of experiences to assist in the development of their business and financial judgment. 

As of December 31, 2015 , Greenhill employed a total of 350 people (including our managing directors and senior advisors), of which 203 &#32;were located in our offices in the Americas, 88 &#32;were based in our European offices, 38 &#32;in our Australian offices, and 21 &#32;in our Asian offices. The vast majority of our accounting, operational and administrative employees are located in the United States. We strive to maintain a work environment that fosters collegiality, teamwork, professionalism, excellence, diversity, and collaboration among our employees worldwide. We utilize a comprehensive evaluation process at the end of each year to measure performance, determine compensation and provide guidance on opportunities for continued development. 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive environment where there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue. Each revenue-generating engagement is separately awarded and negotiated. Our list of clients with whom there is an active engagement changes continually. To develop new client relationships, and to develop new engagements from historic client relationships, we maintain, on an ongoing basis, business dialogues with a large number of clients and potential clients. We have gained a significant number of new clients each year through our business development initiatives, through recruiting additional senior investment banking professionals who bring with them client relationships and expertise in certain industry sectors or geographies and through referrals from members of boards of directors, attorneys and other parties with whom we have relationships. At the same time, we lose clients each year as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client&#8217;s senior management team, competition from other investment banks and other causes. 

The financial services industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. Our competitors are global and regional integrated banking firms, mid-sized full service financial firms, other independent financial services firms and specialized financial advisory firms. We compete with some of our competitors globally and with others on a regional, product, industry or niche basis. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution skills, our range of products and services, strength of relationships, innovation, reputation and price. 

The global and regional integrated banking firms offer a wider range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, hedging, foreign exchange, asset management and corporate finance and securities underwriting services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support their investment banking operations with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure in our business. In addition to our larger and mid-sized full service competitors, we compete with a number of independent investment banks, which offer independent advisory services on a model similar to ours. A few of the independent banks with whom we compete are larger and have greater general and industry specific coverage resources. Further, over the past few years, there has been an increase in the number of newly formed independent advisory firms. Since independent advisory firms require minimal capital to operate, there are few obstacles to starting new firms. 

We believe our primary competitors in securing mergers and acquisitions and financing advisory engagements are large, diversified financial institutions including Bank of America Corporation, Barclays Bank PLC, Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., JPMorgan Chase &#38; Co., Morgan Stanley, and UBS AG, as well as other publicly listed investment banking firms such as Evercore Partners Inc., Jefferies Group, Inc., Lazard Ltd., Moelis &#38; Company and PJT Partners, and certain closely held boutique firms. Advisory services in restructuring and bankruptcy situations tend to be highly specialized, and we believe our primary competitors to be Evercore Partners, Inc., Houlihan Lokey, Inc., Lazard Ltd., Moelis &#38; Company, PJT Partners, Rothschild Group and many closely held boutique firms. We believe our primary competitors in our capital advisory business are Credit Suisse Group AG, Evercore Partners, Inc., Lazard Ltd., Park Hill Group LLC (part of PJT Partners) and UBS AG and many closely held boutique firms. 

Competition can be intense for the hiring and retention of qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete effectively in our business will depend upon our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees. 

For a discussion of risks related to the highly competitive environment in which we operate, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in this annual report. 

Regulation 

Our business, as well as the financial services industry generally, is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and elsewhere. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the United States and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of parties participating in those markets. 

Certain of our operations are subject to compliance with laws and regulations of U.S. federal and state governments, non-U.S. governments, their respective agencies and/or various self-regulatory organizations or exchanges, and any failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to liability and/or damage our reputation. Our businesses have operated for many years within a legal framework that requires us to monitor and comply with a broad range of legal and regulatory developments that affect our activities. However, additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by self-regulatory organizations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, either in the United States or elsewhere, may directly affect our mode of operation and profitability. 

North America 

In the United States, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) is the federal agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws and the protection of investors who invest in Greenhill. Both Greenhill &#38; Co., LLC ("G&#38;Co LLC") and Greenhill Cogent, LP, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Greenhill through which we conduct our U.S. advisory business, are registered as broker-dealers with the SEC, are members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), and are subject to regulation and oversight by the SEC. In addition, FINRA, a self-regulatory organization that is subject to oversight by the SEC, adopts and enforces rules governing the conduct, and examines the activities, of its member firms, including G&#38;Co LLC and Greenhill Cogent, LP. State and local securities regulators also have regulatory or oversight authority over G&#38;Co LLC and Greenhill Cogent, LP. 

Broker-dealers are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business. Our business model is exclusively focused on providing strategic advice to clients and we do not hold customer funds or securities, or carry on research, securities trading, lending or underwriting activities. While this means that certain broker-dealer regulations, such as those pertaining to the use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities and the financing of customers' purchases, may not be applicable to us, we remain subject to other applicable broker-dealer regulations, including regulatory capital levels, record keeping and reporting requirements, and the conduct and qualifications of officers and employees. In particular, as a registered broker-dealer and member of a self-regulatory organization, G&#38;Co LLC and Greenhill Cogent, LP are subject to the SEC's uniform net capital rule, Rule 15c3-1. Rule 15c3-1 specifies the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a significant portion of a broker-dealer's assets be retained in liquid financial instruments relative to the amount of its liabilities. The SEC and various self-regulatory organizations impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, limit the ratio of subordinated debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the SEC's uniform net capital rule imposes certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC for certain withdrawals of capital. 

Our capital advisory business also is affected by various state and local regulations that restrict or prohibit the use of placement agents in connection with investments by public pension funds, including regulations in New York, Illinois, Ohio, California and New Mexico. Similar measures are being considered or have been implemented in other jurisdictions. 

In addition, Greenhill Capital Partners, LLC, our wholly owned subsidiary, which operated as and will continue to operate as general partner of Greenhill Capital Partners I ("GCP I") and Greenhill Capital Partners II ("GCP II"), our former merchant banking funds, is a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. As such, it is subject to regulation and periodic examinations by the SEC. Such regulations relate to, among other things, fiduciary duties to clients, maintaining an effective compliance program, solicitation agreements, conflicts of interest, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency cross and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients and general anti-fraud prohibitions. 

Europe 

Greenhill &#38; Co. International LLP and Greenhill &#38; Co. Europe LLP, our wholly owned affiliated partnerships with offices in the United Kingdom and Germany, respectively, through which we conduct the majority of our European advisory business, are licensed by and also subject to regulation by the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority (&#8220;FCA&#8221;). Greenhill &#38; Co. Europe LLP also is licensed by and subject to regulation by the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority in Germany (&#8220;BaFin&#8221;). The current UK regulatory regime is based upon the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the &#8220;FSMA&#8221;), together with secondary legislation and other rules made under the FSMA. These rules govern all aspects of our advisory business in the United Kingdom, 

including carrying on regulated activities, record keeping, approval standards for individuals, anti-money laundering and periodic reporting. 

Both Greenhill &#38; Co. International LLP and Greenhill &#38; Co. Europe LLP have obtained the appropriate European financial services passport rights to provide cross-border services into a number of other members of the European Economic Area (&#8220;EEA&#8221;). This &#8220;passport&#8221; derives from the pan-European regime established by the EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, which regulates the provision of financial services and activities throughout the EEA. 

Greenhill &#38; Co. Sweden AB, our wholly owned Swedish subsidiary with an office in Stockholm, provides financial advice to clients in Sweden and the wider Nordic region, and is subject to regulation by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. 

Australia 

Greenhill &#38; Co. Australia Pty Limited ("Greenhill Australia"), our wholly owned Australian subsidiary, is licensed and subject to regulation by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (&#8220;ASIC&#8221;) and must also comply with applicable provisions of the Corporations Act 2001 and other Australian legal and regulatory requirements, including capital adequacy rules, customer protection rules, and compliance with other applicable trading and investment banking regulations. 

Asia 

Greenhill &#38; Co. Japan Ltd., a wholly owned Japanese subsidiary with an office in Tokyo, is registered with the Kanto Local Finance Bureau of the Ministry of Finance in Japan and is subject to regulation by the Financial Services Agency and the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission in Japan, and must comply with applicable provisions of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and other applicable Japanese legal and regulatory requirements, including customer protection rules and compliance with other applicable trading and investment banking regulations. 

Greenhill &#38; Co. Asia Limited, a wholly owned Hong Kong subsidiary, is licensed under the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Ordinance with the Securities and Futures Commission (&#8220;SFC&#8221;) and is regulated by the SFC. The compliance requirements of the SFC include, among other things, net capital, stockholders' equity and periodic reporting requirements, and also the registration and training of certain employees and responsible officers. 

Greenhill Cogent Asia Pte. Ltd., a wholly owned Singapore subsidiary, is applying to the Monetary Authority of Singapore ("MAS") for a capital markets services license under the Securities and Futures Act, Chapter 289, of Singapore and, subject to the grant of such license, will be regulated by the MAS. The requirements applicable to holders of capital markets services licenses include net capital, stockholders equity and personnel requirements. 

General 

Our business may also be subject to regulation by other governmental and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in other countries where Greenhill operates or conducts business. 

Federal anti-money-laundering laws make it a criminal offense to own or operate a money transmitting business without the appropriate state licenses, which we maintain, and registration with the U.S. Department of Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). In addition, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and the Treasury Department's implementing federal regulations require us, as a "financial institution," to establish and maintain an anti-money-laundering program. 

In connection with its administration and enforcement of economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals, the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, publishes a list of individuals and companies owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, targeted countries. It also lists individuals, groups and entities, such as terrorists and narcotics traffickers, designated under programs that are not country-specific. Collectively, such individuals and companies are called "Specially Designated Nationals," or SDNs. Assets of SDNs are blocked, and we are generally prohibited from dealing with them. In addition, OFAC administers a number of comprehensive sanctions and embargoes that target certain countries, governments and geographic regions. Similar restrictions have been issued in the U.K. by HM Treasury. We are generally prohibited from engaging in transactions involving any country, region or government that is subject to such comprehensive sanctions. 

We also are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-U.S. government official in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. We are also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws in the United States and in the other jurisdictions in which we operate, such as the U.K. Bribery Act. We have implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules, and regulations. 

For a discussion of risk related to the regulation that we are subject to, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in this annual report. 

Where You Can Find Additional Information 

Greenhill &#38; Co., Inc. files current, annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), with the SEC. You may read and copy any document the Company files at the SEC&#8217;s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, U.S.A. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from the SEC&#8217;s internet site at http://www.sec.gov. Copies of these reports, proxy statements and other information can also be inspected at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., located at 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005, U.S.A. 

Our public internet site is http://www.greenhill.com. We make available, free of charge, through our internet site, via a link to the SEC&#8217;s internet site at http://www.sec.gov, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also posted on our website in the &#8220;Corporate Governance&#8221; section, and available in print upon request of any stockholder to our Investor Relations Department, are the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating &#38; Corporate Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Related Party Transaction Policy and Code of Business Conduct &#38; Ethics governing our directors, officers and employees. You may need to have Adobe Acrobat Reader software installed on your computer to view these documents, which are in PDF format. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC. 

