 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Business Overview 

Leatt designs, develops, markets and distributes personal protective equipment for participants in all forms of motor sports and leisure activities, including riders of motorcycles, bicycles, snowmobiles and ATVs, as well as racing car drivers. The Company sells its products to customers worldwide through a global network of distributors and retailers. Leatt also acts as the original equipment manufacturer for neck braces sold by other international brands.

The Company&#146;s flagship products are based on the Leatt-Brace&#174; system, a patented injection molded neck protection system owned by Xceed Holdings, designed to prevent potentially devastating injuries to the cervical spine and neck. The Company has the exclusive global manufacturing, distribution, sale and use rights to the Leatt-Brace&#174;, pursuant to a license agreement between the Company and Xceed Holdings, a company owned and controlled by the Company&#146;s Chairman and founder, Dr. Christopher Leatt. The Company also has the right to use apparatus embodying, employing and containing the Leatt-Brace&#174; technology and has designed, developed, marketed and distributed other personal protective equipment using this technology, as well as its own developed technology, including the Company&#146;s expanding range of body protection and helmet products which it markets under the Leatt Protection Range brand. 

The Company&#146;s research and development efforts are conducted at its research facilities, located at its executive headquarters in Cape Town, South Africa. The Company employs 4 full-time employees who are dedicated exclusively to research, development, and testing. The Company also utilizes consultants, academic institutions and engineering companies as independent contractors or consultants, from time to time, to assist it with its research and development efforts. Leatt products have been tested and reviewed internally and by external bodies. All Leatt products are compliant with applicable European Union directives, or CE certified, where appropriate. Certain products, such as the MRX PRO Head and Neck Restraint System, have been certified by SFI Foundation (USA) and the Moto GPX was tested by BMW Motorrad (Germany) and reviewed by KTM (Austria). The Company is also in discussions with governing and racing bodies, such as the F&#233;d&#233;ration Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), the F&#233;d&#233;ration Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM) and the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing (NASCAR), to have the Leatt-Brace&#174; accredited by these bodies. 

Our products are manufactured in China under outsource manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers located there. The Company utilizes outside consultants and its own employees to ensure the quality of its products through regular on-site product inspections. Products purchased through international sales are usually shipped directly from our manufacturers&#146; warehouses or points of dispatch to customers or their import agents.

Leatt earns revenues through the sale of its products through approximately 60 distributors worldwide, who in turn sell its products to retailers. Leatt distributors are required to follow certain standard business terms and guidelines for the sale and distribution of Leatt products. Two Eleven and Leatt SA directly distribute Leatt products to retailers in the United States and South Africa, respectively. 

Our Corporate History and Structure 

We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on March 11, 2005 under the name Treadzone, Inc. Until March 2006, we were a shell company with little or no operations. Effective as of March 1, 2006, we acquired the exclusive global manufacturing, distribution, sale and use rights to the Leatt-Brace&#174;, pursuant to a license agreement between the Company and Xceed Holdings, a company owned and controlled by the Company&#146;s Chairman and founder, Dr. Christopher Leatt. On May 25, 2005, we changed our name to Leatt Corporation in connection with our anticipated acquisition of the Leatt-Brace&#174; rights. 

Leatt South Africa 

The Company conducts business in South Africa as a foreign registered branch known as &#145;Leatt Corporation (Incorporated in the State of Nevada)&#146; registered under the laws of South Africa with registration number: 2007/032780/10. Based in Cape Town, South Africa, Leatt SA was formed on November 14, 2007, for conducting the Company&#146;s business and operations in South Africa. Our corporate headquarters and our research and development efforts are based at Leatt SA. 

- 5 - 

Establishment of Two Eleven, Three Eleven and Leatt USA 

On August 17, 2007, the Company established Two Eleven Distribution, a California limited liability company, as its wholly-owned subsidiary. Located in Santa Clarita, California, Two Eleven was formed to serve as the Company&#146;s executive offices in the United States, as well as the exclusive distributor of Leatt&#174; products in the United States. 

Southern Palace Investments 409 (Proprietary) Limited, a South African company, was established on October 12, 2007, by the Company, to engage in the manufacturing and distribution of sporting goods and protective gear. The company was inactive until March 2009, when it acquired all intellectual property rights related to an invention entitled the Helmet&#174; from Xceed Holdings, for an aggregate purchase price of ZAR 943,480 (approximately, $90,000) pursuant to a patent assignment agreement, effective as of January 1, 2009, between Xceed Holdings and Southern Palace, doing business as Three Eleven Distribution. On February 10, 2010, Southern Palace formally changed its name to Three Eleven Distribution to reflect its business purpose. 

On June 26, 2010, the Company established Leatt USA, LLC, a Nevada Limited Liability Company, as our wholly-owned subsidiary and for the purpose of holding our California subsidiary, Two Eleven Distribution. However, as of the date of this annual report the Company had not moved forward with its original plan and Leatt USA remains dormant.

Wind-up of Leatt New Zealand 

On March 13, 2009, the Company established Leatt New Zealand Limited, a New Zealand company, as its wholly-owned subsidiary. Leatt New Zealand served as the exclusive distributor of Leatt-Brace&#174; products in New Zealand, until the fourth quarter of 2011 when it ceased operations and became dormant. The Company has appointed an unrelated third party distributor to distribute its products in the New Zealand market.

Settlement Agreement 

As consideration for their founding of the Company&#146;s operations in South Africa, we agreed to issue 20,000,000 shares of our common stock, and 19,200,000 shares of our preferred stock to Dr. Leatt, 5,000,000 shares of our common stock and 4,800,000 shares of our preferred stock to Jean-Pierre De Villiers, and 50,000 shares of our common stock to Ervian Jarrett. We issued the common stock to Dr. Leatt, Mr. De Villiers and Ms. Jarrett in accordance with the agreement, but we did not issue any preferred shares to Dr. Leatt or Mr. De Villiers. On September 25, 2008, in settlement of our obligation to issue Dr. Leatt and Mr. De Villiers shares of preferred stock, we entered into a Settlement Agreement with them, pursuant to which they agreed to release us from any and all liability arising out of or related to our failure to satisfy our prior obligation to them, and we issued 16,800,000 shares of our common stock and 2,400,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock to Dr. Leatt, and 4,200,000 shares of our common stock and 600,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock to Mr. De Villiers. The Series A Preferred Stock entitles Dr. Leatt and Mr. De Villiers to one hundred votes for each share of Series A Preferred Stock held (voting with the common stock as a single class). The Series A Preferred Stock converts into common stock, on a one-for-one basis, has a liquidation preference equal to $0.001 par value per share and is redeemable by us at $0.001 par value per share upon the occurrence of specified events, but it is subject to transfer limitations and it does not entitle Dr. Leatt and Mr. De Villiers to dividends. On September 20, 2012, we effected a 1-for-25 reverse stock split which reduces the foregoing issuances on a 1:25 ratio.

Our Corporate Structure 

The following chart reflects our organizational structure as of the date of this annual report.

- 6 - 

Our corporate headquarters are located at 50 Kiepersol Drive, Atlas Gardens, Contermanskloof Road, Durbanville, Western Cape, South Africa, 7441. Our telephone number is +(27) 21-557-7257. We maintain a website at www.leatt.com that contains information about our Company, but that information is not incorporated into, or otherwise considered a part of, this annual report. 

Our Industry and Market Trends 

Off-Road Motorcycle Market 

Our products have their roots in the off-road motorcycle market. Our revolutionary neck brace was invented by Dr. Leatt to protect from catastrophic neck injuries after he witnessed the death of a fellow off-road motorcycle rider the weekend after his son&#146;s riding debut. As a result, our original products target participants in off-road cycling activities such as BMX racing and downhill racing. According to a Racer X Illustrated magazine reader survey, available at http://mediakit.filterpubs.com/survey , approximately 52% of riders still do not own a neck brace for protection.

The same RacerX survey shows that we had an approximately 58.9% market share for neck braces and 15.7% of the market share for chest protectors in the U.S. off road motorcycle market, which represents approximately 50% of the worldwide off road motorcycle market. We believe that we have gained our market share, largely due to the innovation and quality of our products, the growth of the market, our increased marketing efforts and our steps to secure our international patents and protect our patents from infringement. 

Other Recreational Markets 

We also design and sell neck braces for use by participants in other recreational sports such as ATV, go-kart and snowmobile users, race-car drivers and participants in other sports where a full face helmet should be worn. As a result, our overall performance in the market is also affected by the performance of these industries, especially in jurisdictions where the use of helmets are compulsory.

Our Products 

The Company designs, develops, distributes and markets protective gear, parts and accessories. The company's flagship protective product is the Leatt-Brace&#174;, a patented neck protection system for sports. 

- 7 - 

The Leatt-Brace&#174; 

The Leatt-Brace&#174; is a prophylactic neck bracing system composed of various combinations of carbon fiber, glass fiber, polycarbonate or Glass Filled Nylon, which was designed to help prevent potentially devastating sports injuries to the cervical spine (neck). The first Leatt&#150;Brace&#174; was designed for motorcycle, high speed motor vehicle and ATV use, where there is little means of protecting the neck in the event of an accident, but the Leatt-Brace&#174; has been designed in such a way as to offer neck protection to all who utilize a crash helmet as a form of protection, including soldiers, law enforcement officers and other professionals whose activities could result in cervical spine injury. 

The Company currently markets and sells seven models of Leatt-Brace&#174; products which bring the safety benefits of the Leatt-Brace&#174; technology to a large group of sports participants: our GPX model for off- road motorcycle use; our DBX model, for downhill and BMX bicycle use; our SNX model for snowmobile use; our STX model for adventure riders, street commuters and Speedway participants; our Kart model for go karting; and our Fusion model which incorporates the neck brace with body protection. 

The GPX models include the GPX 5.5, which is fully adjustable, the GPX 4.5, which is less adjustable, and the GPX 6.5, which is a full carbon brace. Our DBX models include the DBX 5.5, which are fully adjustable, the DBX 4.5 which are less adjustable, and the DBX 6.5 which is a full carbon brace. Both the GPX and DBX ranges feature a 5.5 Junior neck brace designed for young athletes. The STX models include the STX RR and STX Road, while the SNX model includes the SNX Pilot and SNX Trophy, and the Fusion models include 3.0 version designed for adults and 2.0 version designed for young athletes. The Company offers various versions and colors of these products to appeal to different clients and price points.

The following table sets out the type of neck braces currently sold by the Company: 

Product Category Models Description NECK BRACES: GPX These neck braces are designed for off-road motorcycle riders. LEATT GPX 6.5 CARBON Totally new carbon chassis design by LEATT. MaxiWeave Carbon matrix allows for increased rigidity while maintaining a lower weight of &#177;620g. Lowered rim striking platform for increased head and helmet movement. New on-board size adjusting. No parts needed. New folding thoracic for easy storage. New 3-way adjustability for great comfort and fit. New design chest strap included to use as optional. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. 

LEATT GPX 6.5 Totally new carbon chassis design by LEATT. New MaxiWeave Carbon matrix allows for increased rigidity while maintaining a lower weight. New helmet rim striking platform profile. New improved helmet side clearance. New on-board size adjusting. No parts needed. New great fit with sliding front and rear. New folding thoracic. New on board 4-angle rear thoracic adjustment. - 0, 5, 10 and 15&#176;. New design clear strap included to use as optional. 3-way adjustable for great comfort and fit. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. Two adult sizes: S/M and L/XL. 

LEATT GPX 5.5 Totally new chassis design by LEATT. New helmet rim striking platform profile. New improved helmet side clearance. New adjustable over the shoulder height. New on-board size adjusting. No parts needed. New great fit with sliding front and rear. New folding thoracic. New on board 4-angle rear thoracic adjustment. - 0, 5, 10 and 15&#176;. New design clear strap included to use as optional. 4-way adjustable for great comfort and fit. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. Two adult sizes: S/M and L/XL. 

LEATT GPX 5.5 Junior Totally new chassis design by LEATT. New helmet rim striking platform profile. New improved helmet side clearance. New adjustable over the shoulder height. New on-board size adjusting. No parts needed. New great fit with sliding front and rear. New folding thoracic. New on board 4-angle rear thoracic adjustment. - 0, 5, 10 and 15&#176;. New design clear strap included to use as optional. 4-way adjustable for great comfort and fit. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. One junior size. 

- 8 - 

LEATT GPX 4.5 The 4.5 is the new entry level brace in this category. Totally new chassis design by LEATT. New helmet rim striking platform profile. New improved helmet side clearance. New folding thoracic. New on board 4-angle rear thoracic adjustment. - 0, 5, 10 and 15&#176;. New design clear strap included to use as optional. 2-way adjustable for great comfort and fit. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. Two adult sizes: S/M and L/XL. 

DBX These neck braces are for downhill bicycle and BMX riders. LEATT DBX 6.5 CARBON Totally new carbon chassis design by LEATT. MaxiWeave Carbon matrix allows for increased rigidity while maintaining a lower weight of &#177;620g. Lowered rim striking platform for increased head and helmet movement. New on-board size adjusting. No parts needed. New folding thoracic for easy storage. New 3-way adjustability for great comfort and fit. New design chest strap included to use as optional. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. 

LEATT DBX 6.5 Totally new carbon chassis design by LEATT. New MaxiWeave Carbon matrix allows for increased rigidity while maintaining a lower weight. New helmet rim striking platform profile. New improved helmet side clearance. New on-board size adjusting. No parts needed. New great fit with sliding front and rear. New folding thoracic. New on board 4-angle rear thoracic adjustment. - 0, 5, 10 and 15&#176;. New design clear strap included to use as optional. 3-way adjustable for great comfort and fit. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. Two adult sizes: S/M and L/XL 

LEATT DBX 5.5 A totally new chassis design. New helmet rim striking platform profile. New improved helmet side clearance. New adjustable over the shoulder height. New on-board size adjusting. No parts needed. New great fit with sliding front and rear. New folding thoracic. New on board 4-angle rear thoracic adjustment: - 0, 5, 10 and 15&#176;. New design clear strap included to use as optional. 4-way adjustable for great comfort and fit. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. Two adult sizes: S/M and L/XL 

LEATT DBX 5.5 Junior Totally new chassis design by LEATT. New helmet rim striking platform profile. New improved helmet side clearance. New adjustable over the shoulder height. New on-board size adjusting. No parts needed. New great fit with sliding front and rear. New folding thoracic. New on board 4-angle rear thoracic adjustment. - 0, 5, 10 and 15&#176;. New design clear strap included to use as optional. 4-way adjustable for great comfort and fit. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. One junior size. 

LEATT DBX 4.5 The 4.5 is the new entry level brace in this category. Totally new chassis design by LEATT. New helmet rim striking platform profile. New improved helmet side clearance. New folding thoracic. New on board 4-angle rear thoracic adjustment. - 0, 5, 10 and 15&#176;. New design clear strap included to use as optional. 2-way adjustable for great comfort and fit. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. Two adult sizes: S/M and L/XL. 

- 9 - 

STX These neck braces are for street commuters. LEATT STX Road This product is intended for use by all types of street riders. It features a quick and easy no- tool adjustable fit, with folding scapula wings that permit easy storage and adapt to an outside back protector and hump, and a molded padding solution for an extra low profile. The neck brace fits over or under a garment. Skin coated padding for improved durability. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. 

LEATT STX RR The New STX RR design is for road racing and sport riding. The neck brace has a new folding front for full tuck down. Platform shaped for sport and race riding. Light-weight 620g carbon construction. Race adopted front construction for tucking behind the windscreen. Improved side clearance for race cornering. Swiveling rear scapula's for perfect fit over any hump. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. One adult size: L/XL. 

SNX These neck braces are for snowmobile riders. LEATT SNX Pilot This neck brace features the AFC &#150; Artic Fusion Compound - Special low temperature resin material with exclusive clip-on padding which resists snow sticking. It fits under the rider&#146;s jacket and armor. It includes a brace sock which is a waterproof and breathable barrier against winter elements for improved comfort. It has fully adjustable front and rear tables. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. Two adult sizes: S and M. 

LEATT SNX Trophy This neck brace features the AFC &#150; Artic Fusion Compound - Special low temperature resin material with exclusive clip-on padding which resists snow sticking. It fits over the rider&#146;s jacket and armor. It has molded padding for low profile and adjustable height for optimal helmet clearance. It has folded scapula wings for easy storage and side padding recess for improved helmet movement. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. 

Kart These neck braces are for go-kart riders. LEATT Kart This neck brace features a special Kart angle for improved function and fit. It features bio foam lycra padding. It also has fully adjustable front and rear tables. CE certified as Personal Protective Equipment 89/686/EEC. Two adult sizes: S and M. 

Moto These neck braces are for restrained torso car drivers LEATT MRX PRO This head and neck restraint is SFI 38.1 tested and approved for optimum protection at over 70G. It has an exclusive flexible chassis and single collar angle design for greater comfort. It fits all types of 2" and 3" harnesses, has fire retardant Nomex&#174; washable padding and the chassis is made of an advanced, fire retardant, high tensile PC composite as well as a quick release fire retardant Kevlar&#174; tether system for both frontal and side impact protection. It has an Anchor post kit with wrench included. 

Fusion These neck braces incorporate upper body protection LEATT Fusion vest 3.0 This product combines CE certified LEATT neck brace technology together with LEATT 3DF AirFit CE certified back, shoulder and chest impact protection. Chest protection: EN1621-3 Level 1; Back protection: EN1621-2 Level 1 and Shoulder protection EN1621-1. This is a comfortable, lightweight and vented product. This product incorporates LEATT 3DF AirFit impact foam for premium body protection. 3 dimensional designed for perfect fit. Light weight. Great comfort. Well ventilated. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. 

- 10 - 

LEATT SNX Fusion vest 3.0 This product combines CE certified LEATT neck brace technology together with LEATT 3DF AirFit CE certified back, shoulder and chest impact protection. Chest protection: EN1621-3 Level 1; Back protection: EN1621-2 Level 1 and Shoulder protection EN1621-1. This is a comfortable, lightweight and vented product. This product incorporates LEATT 3DF AirFit impact foam for premium body protection. 3 dimensional designed for perfect fit. Light weight. Great comfort. Well ventilated. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. 

LEATT Fusion vest 2.0 Junior This product combines CE certified LEATT neck brace technology together with LEATT 3DF AirFit CE certified back, shoulder and chest impact protection. Chest protection: EN1621-3 Level 1; Back protection: EN1621-2 Level 1 and Shoulder protection EN1621-1. This is a comfortable, lightweight and vented product. This product incorporates LEATT 3DF AirFit impact foam for premium body protection. 3 dimensional designed for perfect fit. Light weight. Great comfort. Well ventilated. Three junior sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. 

Leatt Helmet Range 

In 2015 the Company launched its helmet range and commenced shipment of its new helmet. The Company currently sells two models of helmet products which the Company believes redefines head and brain protection with its groundbreaking 360 degree Turbine technology for concussion and brain rotation safety. These helmets offer superior head and brain protection in a shell that is smaller, very lightweight and super ventilated, even at low speeds. The Helmet range currently includes our two GPX models for off- road motorcycle use. 

The following table sets out the type of helmets currently sold by the Company: 

Product Category Models Description HELMETS: GPX These helmets are designed for off-road motorcycle riders. LEATT GPX 6.5 CARBON This race-ready Carbon off-road, light weight and super ventilated helmet is equipped with 360 Turbine concussion and brain rotation safety technology. It has reduced outer shell volume, low friction cheek pads for emergency removal. Visor with breakaway function for rotational reduction in a crash. Hydration ready (with optional hands-free kit). Moisture-wicking, breathable, antimicrobial and washable liner. Certified and tested to ECE2205/DOT, ACU Gold. Six adult sizes: XS, S, M, L, XL and XXL. 

LEATT GPX 5.5 COMPOSITE This race-ready composite off-road, light weight and super ventilated helmet is equipped with 360 Turbine concussion and brain rotation safety technology. It has reduced outer shell volume, low friction cheek pads for emergency removal. Visor with breakaway function for rotational reduction in a crash. Hydration ready (with optional hands-free kit). Moisture-wicking, breathable, antimicrobial and washable liner. Certified and tested to ECE2205/DOT, ACU Gold. Six adult sizes: XS, S, M, L, XL and XXL. 

- 11 - 

Leatt Body Armor Range 

While we remain committed to the ongoing improvement and enhancement of the Leatt-Brace&#174;, we are also focusing on the development of related and complimentary protection products. We now offer additional protection products, such as chest protectors, that can be worn with or without the Leatt-Brace&#174;, as well as ancillary products such as clothing. Such products have a wider range of uses including activities such as rugby, horseback riding, snowboarding, skiing and any activity where researched technology can be applied to help prevent injury.

In 2010 we launched the Leatt Body Armor Range with the introduction of the Leatt Adventure Chest Protector, a hard shell chest protector. In 2011 we introduced junior protectors, body vests and full body protectors, since then we have extended our range further to include more body protectors and vests, back protectors, elbow guards, knee guards and cooling vest. All our protectors come standard with the Brace-On&#153; integration system that attaches the protector to the Leatt-Brace&#174; yet permits independent movement of the brace and protector.

In 2014 we expanded our range of body protection to meet the consumers need based on market feedback. We have expanded into new markets by adding a shoulder brace and C-Frame knee brace to this category. We included more products specifically for the youth and children. We have further added two new products which combine back protectors with hydration packs.

In 2015 we expanded our range of body protection into new markets by adding gloves to this category and we have updated our range based on market feedback.

The Body Armor Range has seen an increase in sales since inception. Revenue derived from Leatt protection products in 2015 was 47% of total revenue, as compared to 42% of revenues in 2014. In November 2011, the Leatt Adventure Chest Protector was awarded a perfect score (10/10) in a product evaluation done on Motocrossgear.com, an industry publication. 

The following table sets out the types of body armor products currently sold by the Company: 

Product Category Models Description CHEST PROTECTORS: Chest Protector LEATT 5.5 Pro HD Front, back, shoulder and flank safety multilayer multi plate articulating design. Great fit and very comfortable by 3D design. Consists of 53 ventilation slots for maximum airflow. It includes the BraceOn neck brace fitting system. This product is Heavy Duty maximized protection. New FlipFit front and rear function allows over and under the shirt fitting with Leatt neck braces. Available also in XXL. It has a hard shell outer shield made of High Density Poly Ethylene (HDPE). This product includes 3DF impact foam. CE certified for impact protection: Shoulder protection EN1621- 1, Back protection EN1621- 2 level 2, Chest protection EN1621-3 level 2. Flank protection. Two adult sizes: Adult, Adult XXL. 

Chest Protector LEATT 5.5 Pro HD Junior The Pro HD has added Hardshell flank padding. It consists of 3D design with eight, multilayer, articulating plates, for a great fit. It has also been designed to integrate perfectly with all Leatt&#174; neck braces although it works equally well without a neck brace. The BraceOn&#153; strap system attaches the protector to the neck brace yet permits independent movement of body, brace and chest protector. Fits over or under the jersey. 47 ventilation slots for maximum cooling. Perforated 3DF foam helps air flow. Hard shell outer shield made of High Density Poly Ethylene (HDPE). CE certified for impact protection: Shoulder protection EN1621-1, Back protection EN1621-2 level 1, and Chest protection EN1621-3 level 2, Flank protection. One junior size. 

Chest Protector LEATT 5.5 Pro Front, back, and shoulder safety. Multilayer multiplate articulating design. Great fit and very comfortable by 3D design. 45 ventilation slots for maximum airflow. It includes the BraceOn&#174; neck brace fitting system. New FlipFit front and rear function allows over and under the shirt fitting with Leatt neck braces. The absolute most protective and comfortable chest protector ever. Available also in XXL. This product&#146;s hard-shell outer protective shield is made from LEATT &#174; HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene. This product includes 3DF impact foam. CE certified for impact protection: Shoulder protection EN1621-1, Back protection EN1621-2 level 2, Chest protection EN1621-3 level 2. Two adult sizes: Adult and Adult XXL. 

- 12 - 

&#160; Chest Protector LEATT 5.5 Pro Junior This product is specifically designed to meet the highest CE safety approvals for front and back impact protection. The 3D design with eight, multi-layer, articulating plates, for a great fit. It has also been designed to integrate perfectly with all Leatt&#174; neck braces although it works equally well without a neck brace. BraceOn&#153; strap system attaches the protector to the neck brace yet permits independent movement of body, brace and chest protector. Fits over or under the jersey. 41 ventilation slots for maximum cooling. Perforated 3DF foam helps air flow. Hard shell outer shield made of High Density Poly Ethylene (HDPE). CE certified for impact protection: Shoulder protection EN1621-1, Back protection EN1621-2 level 1, and Chest protection EN1621-3 level 2. One junior size. 

&#160; Chest Protector LEATT Lite SHOX The new SHOX design chest protector. HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene hard shell outer protective shield with our 3D design ensures a great fit that is very comfortable. Close fitting allows for over or under the jersey use. This protector is designed to fit with the Leatt neck brace. Includes BraceOn&#174; brace strap and allows for individual movement of body, brace and protector. CE certified for roost protection: Chest EN 14021 approved. One adult size. 

&#160; Chest Protector LEATT Lite This protector has three dimensional design for perfect fit and fit with the Leatt neck brace. It is made of tough HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene hard shell outer protective shell and also includes a BraceOn&#174; brace strap to improve fit. CE certified as roost protection: CE EN 14021. One adult size. 

&#160; Chest Protector LEATT Adventure This protector has three dimensional design for perfect fit and fit with the Leatt neck brace. It is made of tough HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene hard shell outer protective shell and also includes a BraceOn&#174; brace strap to improve fit. Upper arm roost protection. Adjustable waist straps for great fit. CE certified for impact protection: CE EN 14021. One adult size. 

&#160; Chest Protector LEATT Adventure Junior This protector is designed especially for children and is designed to fit with the Leatt neck brace. It is made of tough HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene hard shell outer protective shell and also includes a BraceOn&#174; brace strap to improve fit. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN 14021. One junior size. 

&#160; Chest Protector LEATT 4.5 Front, back, and flank safety. Multilayer multi plate articulating design. Great fit and very comfortable by 3D design. Ventilation slots for maximum airflow. It includes the BraceOn&#174; neck brace fitting system. This product&#146;s hard- shell outer protective shield is made from LEATT &#174; HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene. This product includes 3DF impact foam. Removable front and rear plate function allows over and under the shirt fitting with the neck brace. CE certified for impact protection: Back protection EN1621-2 level 2, Chest protection EN1621-3 level 2. Two adult sizes: Adult and Adult XXL. 

- 13 - 

Chest Protector LEATT 4.5 Junior Front, back, and flank safety. Multilayer multi plate articulating design. Great fit and very comfortable by 3D design. Ventilation slots for maximum airflow. It includes the BraceOn&#174; neck brace fitting system. This product&#146;s hard- shell outer protective shield is made from LEATT&#174; HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene. This product includes 3DF impact foam. CE certified for impact protection: Back protection EN1621-2 level 1, Chest protection EN1621-3 level 2. One junior size. Chest Protector LEATT 4.5 Hydra This is a Body Protector which incorporates a 10 L back pack with 3l hydration pack. Integration with or without the neck brace. Optimal Airline back ventilation. Removable brace plate to wear under or over riding gear. Left and right hydration tube channeling. Integrated buckle system. Waterproof removable cell phone pouch. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-2 level 2 back. CE EN1621-3 level 2 impact front. One adult size. Chest Protector LEATT 5.5 Pro Junior This protector is a HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene hard shell outer protective shield with perforated 3DF AirFit impact foam. It includes the BraceOn&#174; brace strap and can be worn under or over shirt fitting brace. CE certified for impact protection: EN 1621- 3 CE Level 2 chest, EN1621-1 shoulder and EN 1621-2 CE Level 1 back. One junior size. Chest Protector LEATT 2.5 Junior This protector is a hard shell roost protection designed for mini riders. Our 3D design ensures a great fit that is very comfortable. Close fitting allows for over or under the jersey use. Liberal venting helps keep rider cool. Recess areas in both front and back integrates with Leatt&#174; neck braces perfectly. Adjustable waist straps for great fit. Ergonomically designed buckles for kids. CE tested and certified as roost protection: Chest EN14021. One kids size. BODY PROTECTORS: Body Protector 3DF Three dimensional designed for perfect fit. Lighter weight. Greater comfort. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. Easy to wear zip-up compression sock design should be worn next to the skin for maximum evaporation. LEATT 3DF Foam for premium protection. Removable foam for easy washing. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN 1621-1 elbow and arms. CE EN1621-2 level 2 back. CE EN1621-3 level 2 impact front. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL, XXL. Body Protector LEATT 3DF AirFit This Body Protector is Level Two soft protection. Great fit with elastic waist belt. New thin chest impact protection layer for non-brace riders. Super ventilation with 3DF AirFit impact foam. Three dimensional designed for perfect fit. This product includes Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. Easy to wear zip-up compression sock design for maximum evaporation. BraceOn&#174; flexible neck brace connection. It has removable Impact foam for easy washing. CE certified for impact protection. Elbow and arms protection EN1621-1, Back protection EN1621-2 level 2, Chest protection EN1621- 3 level 2. Three adult sizes: S/M 160-172cm, L/XL 172- 184cm, XXL 184-196cm. Body Protector LEATT 3DF Airfit Lite Light and slim body protector with Level One soft protection. Mulit-layer Level One back protector and chest protector. Extra chest impact protection layer on upper chest for better protection for non neck brace users. Great fit with elastic waist belt. Maximum ventilated and light weight 3DF AirFit impact foam. Three dimensional design for perfect fit. This product includes Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. Easy to wear zip-up compression sock design for maximum evaporation. BraceOn&#174; flexible neck brace connection. It has removable Impact foam for easy washing. CE certified for impact protection. Elbow and arms protection EN1621-1, Back protection EN1621-2 level 1, Chest protection EN1621-3 level 1. Three adult sizes: S/M 160- 172cm, L/XL 172-184cm, XXL 184-196cm. 

- 14 - 

Body Protector LEATT 3DF Junior Three dimensional designed for perfect fit. Lighter weight. Greater comfort. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. Easy to wear zip-up compression sock design should be worn next to the skin for maximum evaporation. LEATT 3DF Foam for premium protection. Removable foam for easy washing. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN 1621-1 elbow and arms. CE EN1621-2 level 2 back. CE EN1621-3 level 2 impact front. Two junior sizes: S/M 134-146 cm and L/XL 146-159. Body Vest LEATT 3DF Airfit Lite Light and slim body protector with Level One soft protection. Mulitlayer Level One back protector and chest protector. Extra chest impact protection layer on upper chest for better protection for non-neck brace users. Great fit with elastic waist belt. Maximum ventilated and light weight 3DF AirFit impact foam. Three dimensional design for perfect fit. This product includes Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. Easy to wear zip-up compression sock design for maximum evaporation. BraceOn&#174; flexible neck brace connection. It has removable Impact foam for easy washing. CE certified for impact protection. Back protection EN1621-2 level 1, Chest protection EN1621-3 level 1. Three adult sizes: S/M 160-172cm, L/XL 172-184cm, XXL 184-196cm. Body Vest LEATT 3DF Airfit This Body Protector is Level Two soft protection. Great fit with elastic waist belt. New thin chest impact protection layer for non-brace riders. Super ventilation with 3DF AirFit impact foam. Three dimensional designed for perfect fit. This product includes Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. Easy to wear zip-up compression sock design for maximum evaporation. BraceOn&#174; flexible neck brace connection. It has removable Impact foam for easy washing. CE certified for impact protection. EN1621-2 level 2, Chest protection EN1621-3 level 2. Three adult sizes: S/M 160-172cm, L/XL 172- 184cm, XXL 184-196cm. Body Protector LEATT 5.5 This product has a multilayer multi plate articulating design with provides protection for front, bank and flank. Ventilation slots that maximize airflow and Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. BraceOn neck brace fitting system. New flipfit front and rear function allows over and under the shirt fitting with a neck brace. Protection is provided by 3DF foam for impact absorption and HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene hard shell outer protective shell. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN 1621-1 elbow and arms. CE EN1621-2 level 2 back. CE EN1621-3 level 2 impact front. Three adult sizes: S/M 160-172cm, L/XL 172-184cm, XXL 184-196cm. Body Protector LEATT 5.5 Junior This product is maximized junior protection. It has front, back, shoulder and elbow protection. It is a multilayer and multi plate articulating design and great fit and comfort. Ventilation slots that maximize airflow and Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. BraceOn neck brace fitting system. New flipfit front and rear function allows over and under the shirt fitting with a neck brace. Protection is provided by 3DF foam for impact absorption and HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene hard shell outer protective shell. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN 1621-1 elbow and arms. CE EN1621-2 level 1 back. CE EN1621-3 level 2 impact front. Two junior sizes: S/M 134-146 cm and L/XL 146-159. 

- 15 - 

Body Vest LEATT 5.5 This product has a multilayer multi plate articulating design with provides protection for front, bank and flank. Ventilation slots that maximize airflow and Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. BraceOn neck brace fitting system. New flipfit front and rear function allows over and under the shirt fitting with a neck brace. Protection is provided by 3DF foam for impact absorption and HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene hard shell outer protective shell. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-2 level 2 back. CE EN1621-3 level 2 impact front. Three adult sizes: S/M 160-172cm, L/XL 172- 184cm, XXL 184-196cm. 

Body Protector LEATT 4.5 This hard shell reinforced CE certified 3DF body protector has HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene hard shell outer protective shield. Perforated 3DF AirFit impact foam. Multi- layer multi-plate articulating design. Our 3D design ensures a great fit that is very comfortable. Ventilation slots for maximum airflow. CE tested and certified as impact protection: Chest prEN1621-3 Level 2, Back EN1621-2 Level 2 and Elbow and Shoulder EN1621-1. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. 

Body Protector LEATT 4.5 Junior This hard shell reinforced CE certified 3DF body protector has HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene hard shell outer protective shield. Perforated 3DF AirFit impact foam. Multi- layer multi-plate articulating design. Our 3D design ensures a great fit that is very comfortable. Ventilation slots for maximum airflow. CE tested and certified as impact protection: Chest prEN1621-3 Level 2, Back EN1621-2 Level 1 and Elbow and Shoulder EN1621-1.Two junior sizes: S/M and L/XL. 

Body Vest LEATT 4.5 This hard shell reinforced CE certified 3DF body vest has HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene hard shell outer protective shield. Perforated 3DF AirFit impact foam. Multi-layer multi- plate articulating design. Our 3D design ensures a great fit that is very comfortable. Ventilation slots for maximum airflow. CE tested and certified as impact protection: Chest prEN1621-3 Level 2, Back EN1621-2 Level 2. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. 

Body Tee LEATT 3DF Airfit Lite This 3DF AirFit Lite Tee offers light and slim CE Level 1 soft protection for your upper body. The flexible foam is light to wear and very well ventilated, yet absorbs energy up on impact for optimal safety. CE tested and certified as impact protection: Chest prEN1621-3 Level 1, Back EN1621-2 Level 1 and Shoulder EN1621-1. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL, XXL and Junior L/XL. 

LEATT Roost Tee Ultra lightweight roost tee. Vented roost padding over chest and upper arms. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to help keep rider cool. Fits snug direct on the body. It comes in a cool grey color which will not shine through the jersey. It has non- aggressive over lock seams. It has a front, rear and side panel stretch for ultimate fit. Long back cut. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL, XXL and Junior L/XL. 

- 16 - 

BACK PROTECTOR: Back Protector 3DF Three dimensional designed for perfect fit. Bio engineered back with 3D contour shape like your spine. Light weight and greater comfort. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. Easy to wear zip-up compression sock design should be worn next to the skin for maximum evaporation. LEATT 3DF Foam for premium protection. Removable foam for easy washing. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-2 level 2 back. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL, XXL. 

Hydration Cargo 3.0 DBX This product incorporates back protector and hydration pack in one. It has a 3l hydration pack with Leatt Flat CleanTech bladder. The back pack has 10l volume with outer pocket for MTB helmet. Back protector incorporates 3DF impact protection. Waterproof removable pouch for cellphone. Inner and outer compartments for the back pack. Water bottle holders and volume regulating straps on backpack. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-2 level 2 back. One adult size. 

Hydration Cargo 3.0 GPX Off- Road This product incorporates back protector and hydration pack in one. It has a 3l hydration pack with Leatt Flat CleanTech bladder. The back pack has 10l volume. Back protector incorporates 3DF impact protection. Waterproof removable pouch for cell phone. Inner and outer compartments for the back pack. Water bottle holders and volume regulating straps on backpack. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621- 2 level 2 back. One adult size. 

Hydration Pack DBX Enduro Lite WP 2.0 Waterproof light bicycle hydration with back protector. Fully welded waterproof lightweight bicycle hydration system with multi impact level 1 back protector. The unique chest harness ensures a very solid fit making the waist strap obsolete. Includes bottom jacket/protector storage straps, heat resistant encapsulated bladder pocket and a strap system for full face or/and MTB helmet. CE tested and certified as impact protection: Back EN1621-2 Level 1. One size fit XS-XXL. 

Hydration Pack DBX Mountain Lite 2.0 Slim and ultra-light bicycle hydration with back protector with 2.0L Flat CleanTech bladder and 1.0L luggage. Unique light weight chest harness for a rock solid fit. Mesh storage pocket inside the bag. Optimal AirLine back ventilation. Heat reflective inner back panel to keep liquid cool or hot. Lightweight helmet carrier system for full face or/and MTB helmet. Dual hydration tube exit for 2-way routing. CE tested and certified as impact protection: Back EN1621-2 Level 1. One size fits all. 

SHOULDER BRACE: Shoulder Brace This shoulder brace has the correct anatomical pull forces to help prevent a shoulder dislocation. It fits snug under the rider&#146;s jersey with adjustable compression. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. 

ELBOW GUARDS: Elbow Guard Airflex This is the slimmest, lightest elbow guard made by Leatt&#174;. The new super slim 6mm CE impact certified elbow guard which weighs only 240 g grams per pair. CE Certified for impact protection: Elbow EN 1621-1. Five adult sizes: S, M, L, XL and XXL. 

- 17 - 

Elbow Guard 3DF 5.0 The soft CE certified 3DF elbow guard has premium elbow protection in a slimmer, softer, more flexible design. This pure soft shell guard is big on protection yet lightweight and very comfortable. Pre-curve design for better fit &#38; function. It&#146;s made with our innovative 3DF foam that absorbs energy on impact. CE tested and certified as impact protection: Elbow EN1621-2 Five adult sizes: S, M, L, XL, XXL and one junior size. Elbow Guard 3DF Hybrid This elbow guard combines soft and comfortable 3DF foam with deflecting hard shell. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler and silicone laminations keep protectors in place. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621- 1. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL and one junior size. Elbow Guard LEATT 3.0 The hard shell elbow guard is comfortable and very easy to slip on and off with the X-straps and offers a full hard shell elbow protection. Co-molded soft rubber edges for extra comfort, 3D design for optimal fit with specific left and right sides and vented plates for maximum airflow. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. Elbow Guard LEATT Contour The Contour elbow guard offers full hard shell elbow protection with co-molded soft edges for comfort. They are slim, lightweight and comfortable with a great fit and silicone cuffed MoistureCool sock. Silicone printed non slip cuffs. CE certified for impact protection: Elbow CE EN1621- 1. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL and one junior size. Elbow Guard LEATT 3DF Junior Three dimensional designed for perfect fit. Greater comfort. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. Abrasion resistant aramid fiber outer layer. Silicone laminations keep protectors in place. LEATT 3DF Foam for premium protection. Can be worn under or over the jersey. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-1. One junior size. Elbow Guard LEATT 3DF Kids Three dimensional designed for perfect fit. Greater comfort. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. Abrasion resistant aramid fiber outer layer. Silicone laminations keep protectors in place. LEATT 3DF Foam for premium protection. Can be worn under or over the jersey. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-1. One kids size. KNEE BRACE LEATT C-Frame Carbon This knee brace has three point force distribution with super stiff C-arm mono hinge construction. The adjustable soft lockout prevents hyperextension of the knee. It has super low profile inner knee for superior bike control. X-strap thigh and calf fitment with adjustable inner knee load pad. Leatt InteliLink hinge with double pivot points and ferro-ligaments control knee rotation and sheer. CE certifies for knee impact protection. CE 1621-1. 3 Adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. Knee Brace Sleeve This sleeve is manufactured using Moisture Cool wicking fabric with flatlock stitching for extra comfort. This extra sleeve folds over the knee brace and prevents slipping. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. KNEE GUARDS: &#160; Knee Guard LEATT 3DF Three dimensional designed for perfect fit. Greater comfort. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. Abrasion resistant aramid fiber outer layer. Side padding protects knee from side impact. Adjustable silicone laminated straps keeps protectors in place. 3DF Foam for premium protection. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-1. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL, XXL and one junior size. 

- 18 - 

Knee Guard LEATT Dual Axis Three dimensional designed for perfect fit. Light Weight. Greater comfort. Large vents help keep rider cool. Slim over or under the pants design. Leatt HDPE (High Density Poly Ethylene) hard shell outer protective shield. Anatomically correct dual pivot points. LEATT Foam for premium protection. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-1. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. 

Knee Guard LEATT Enduro This product consists of a hard shell sliding surface with 3DF impact absorption body. Silicone laminated straps keeps protector in place with maximum ventilation. The co-molded rubber edges increases comfort. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-1. Two adult sizes: S/M, L/XL 

Knee Guard LEATT Airflex Pro This ultra slim AirFlex knee guard offers great impact protection and a slim fit. 6mm CE impact certified profile. New side &#38; upper knee impact protection. New silicon printed cupped knee grip. Silicone printed non slip cuffs. New single sizing for perfect fit. CE tested and certified as impact protection: Knee EN1621-2. Five adult sizes: S, M, L, XL and XXL. 

Knee Guard LEATT 3DF 5.0 This soft CE certified 3DF knee guard has increased side protection. This pure soft shell guard is big on protection yet lightweight and comfortable. Abrasion resistant Aramid outer layer for durability, new wider silicone printed elastic cuffs, new 30mm low profile elastic Velcro strap with easy pull suede finger tabs with MoistureCool and AirMesh fabrics. CE tested and certified as impact protection: Knee EN1621-2. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. 

Knee Guard LEATT 3DF 5.0 Junior This soft CE certified 3DF knee guard has increased side protection. This pure soft shell guard is big on protection yet lightweight and comfortable. Abrasion resistant Aramid outer layer for durability, new wider silicone printed elastic cuffs, new 30mm low profile elastic Velcro strap with easy pull suede finger tabs with MoistureCool and AirMesh fabrics. CE tested and certified as impact protection: Knee EN1621-2. One junior size. 

Knee Guard LEATT 3DF Hybrid This protector consists of deflecting hard shell with soft and comfortable 3DF foam. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-1. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and XXL. 

Knee Guard LEATT 3DF Airflex This knee guard is super slim 6mm which weighs only 105 grams. It consists of Armourgel&#146;s ultra slim impact absorbing gel. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-1. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL, XXL. 

Knee and Shin Guard LEATT EXT This product has full shin protection with BMX approved extended length. It consists of a hard shell sliding surface with 3DF impact absorption body. Silicone laminated straps keeps protector in place with maximum ventilation. The co-molded rubber edges increases comfort. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-1. Two adult sizes: S/M, L/XL and one junior size. 

- 19 - 

Knee and Shin Guard LEATT 3DF Hybrid EXT This protector consists of deflecting hard shell with soft and comfortable 3DF foam. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-1. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL, XXL and one junior size. 

Knee and Shin Guard LEATT 3.0 EXT This protector is a hard shell knee &#38; shin guard combined with 3DF impact absorbing body. It has 3D design for optimal fit with specific left and right sides. Slim shin plate that also fit inside boots. CE tested and certified as impact protection: Knee &#38; shin EN1621-2. Three adult sizes: S/M, L/XL, XXL. 

Knee Guard LEATT 3DF Kids Three dimensional designed for perfect fit. Greater comfort. Moisture Cool wicking fabric to keep you cooler. Abrasion resistant aramid fiber outer layer. Silicone laminated straps keeps protector in place. CE certified for impact protection. CE EN1621-1.One kids size. 

KIDNEY BELT: Kidney Belt LEATT 3DF 3.5 Kidney belt with CE certified lumbar impact protection. Dual action elastic closure for maximum support, 3DF foam for impact protection. Thermo foamed 3D air channels for maximum ventilation. Extra wide and comfortable waist stretch. CE certified for impact protection. Lumbar EN1621-2 Level 1. Four adult sizes: S/M, L/XL, XXL and XXXL. 

COOLING WEAR: Cooling Vest LEATT Coolit This product is made from a patented Hyperkewl TM cooling fabric that is designed to lower the body temperature. It fits snugly on the body under a body protector and is light-weight. Seven adult sizes: XS, S, M, L, XL, 2XL, 3XL and one junior size. 

Cooling Tee LEATT Coolit This product is also made from a patented Hyperkewl TM cooling fabric that is designed to lower the body temperature. It is the only product with sleeves in this range. It fits snugly on the body under a body protector and is light-weight. Seven adult sizes XS, S, M, L, XL, 2XL, 3XL and one junior size. 

Cooling Vest LEATT Pre-Cool This product is for cooling riders down before, after and between races. Patented TechKewl cooling inserts. Keeps 14C or 58F temperature for 3 hours. Lowers body temperature. Increases body performance. Fits directly on body. Non- aggressive over lock seams. Front, rear and side panel stretch for ultimate fit. Cool white/grey. Three adult sizes: Adult S/M, L/XL, XXL and one junior size. 

GLOVES: Glove DBX 3.0 X-Flow This product is a super vented X-Flow mesh bicycle glove with impact protection. The glove has 3D molded self- locating Armourgel impact protection for knuckles. This glove has Genuine Clarino Japan palm: Micro fiber technology, 3D intervened fiber layout, soft and flexible, great dry and wet grip and two silicone finger grips. CE tested as impact protection: Knuckle prEN 13594:2014. Six adult sizes: XS, S, M, L, XL and XXL. 

Glove DBX 4.0 Lite This product is a vented bicycle glove. The glove has 3D molded self-locating Armourgel impact protection for: knuckles, third finger and fourth finger. The glove also features NanoGrip palm: Ultra-thin for maximum bike feel, Nano fiber technology 7.500 thinner than hair, very stretchy and flexible and has touch screen function. CE tested as impact protection: Knuckle prEN 13594:2014. Six adult sizes: XS, S, M, L, XL and XXL. 

- 20 - 

&#160; Glove DBX 4.0 Windblock This product is a slim and protective windproof bicycle glove. The glove has 3D molded self-locating Armourgel impact protection for: knuckles, third finger and fourth finger. The glove also features NanoGrip palm: Ultra-thin for maximum bike feel, Nano fiber technology 7.500 thinner than hair, very stretchy and flexible and has touch screen function. CE tested as impact protection: Knuckle prEN 13594:2014. Six adult sizes: XS, S, M, L, XL and XXL. 

&#160; Glove GPX 3.5 X-Flow This product is a super vented X-Flow mesh Off-Road glove with impact protection. The glove has 3D molded self- locating Armourgel impact protection for knuckles. This glove has Genuine Clarino Japan palm: Micro fiber technology, 3D intervened fiber layout, soft and flexible, great dry and wet grip and two silicone finger grips. CE tested as impact protection: Knuckle prEN 13594:2014. Six adult sizes: XS, S, M, L, XL and XXL. 

&#160; Glove GPX 4.5 Lite This product is a vented Off-Road glove. The glove has 3D molded self-locating Armourgel impact protection for: knuckles, third finger and fourth finger. The glove also features NanoGrip palm: Ultra-thin for maximum bike feel, Nano fiber technology 7.500 thinner than hair, very stretchy and flexible and has touch screen function. CE tested as impact protection: Knuckle prEN 13594:2014. Six adult sizes: XS, S, M, L, XL and XXL. 

&#160; Glove GPX 5.5 Lite This vented Off-Road glove with optimum protection. The glove has 3D molded self-locating Armourgel impact protection for: knuckles, fingers &#38; thumb and upper hand. The glove also features NanoGrip palm: Ultra-thin for maximum bike feel, Nano fiber technology 7.500 thinner than hair, very stretchy and flexible and has touch screen function. CE tested as impact protection: Knuckle prEN 13594:2014. Six adult sizes: XS, S, M, L, XL and XXL. 

&#160; Glove GPX 5.5 Windblock This product is a slim and protective windproof off-road glove. The glove has 3D molded self-locating Armourgel impact protection for: knuckles, fingers &#38; thumb and upper hand. The glove also features NanoGrip palm: Ultra-thin for maximum bike feel, Nano fiber technology 7.500 thinner than hair, very stretchy and flexible and has touch screen function. CE tested as impact protection: Knuckle prEN 13594:2014. Six adult sizes: XS, S, M, L, XL and XXL. 

Other Products, Parts and Accessories 

The nature of our product is such that certain components collapse and fail in a controlled mode to help prevent further bodily injury. In light of this, we also provide aftermarket support for users of our products through our global distribution network. Specific parts of the product or the entire product may need to be replaced after a significant impact. Our aftermarket support primarily entails the replacement of worn or damaged parts, as well as sale of accessories, including hats and hydration kits. We also sell clothing and outerwear.

The following table sets out the type of hydration products currently sold by the Company: 

HYDRATION SYSTEMS: Hydration Ultra 750 HF Ultra-light hydration for neck brace fit. Specially developed liquid pack to fit Leatt neck braces. Easily strapped directly onto the rear thoracic strut of any Leatt neck brace, giving a well-balanced fit. This enables the rider to combine neck protection and a hydration system in a very flexible way. 

Hydration Pack GPX Race HF 2.0 Slim, ultra-light, hands-free hydration system for off road racing. The unique chest harness ensures a very solid fit making the waist strap obsolete. Includes heat resistant encapsulated bladder pocket with dual hydration tube exit for 2-way routing. One size fits all. 

Hydration Pack GPX 2.0 Trail WP HF Waterproof light off-road hydration with 2.0L Flat CleanTech bladder &#38; 5L luggage. Fully welded waterproof lightweight hydration system. The unique chest harness ensures a very solid fit making the waist strap obsolete. Removable tool roll and neoprene hydration pocket. 

- 21 - 

Accolades 

Leatt-Brace&#174; products have attracted worldwide interest and we have corresponded with global motorsports governing bodies such as the FIM, Motorsport South Africa, NASCAR and the FIA, with motor racing teams such as the KTM Racing Team, with automotive and motorcycle manufacturers, and with global retailers and distributors of protective gear for motor and extreme sports. We are also in discussions with the FIM, NASCAR and the FIA, to have the Leatt-Brace&#174; accredited. 

Our Leatt-Brace&#174; and chest protection products have acquired CE certification where necessary to distribute and sell products in the EU countries. The Leatt-Brace&#174; products have won a series of awards and accolades since 2007, including the following:

&#149; Motocross Action : Leatt-Brace GPX awarded 5/5 Star Product Rating (2007) and Decade&#146;s Most Significant Product (awarded by an industry magazine based on comfort, fit and safety) &#149; Transworld MX : Editors&#146; Choice&#150;Leatt Brace Adventure awarded Best New Product of Year (2009) (selected by editors of an industry magazine with no published criteria) &#149; ISPO Brandnew Awards : Leatt-Brace DBX awarded Best Protection at Bike Expo (2010) (Bike Expo is an annual gathering of industry participants) &#149; Transworld MX : Leatt GPX Pro Best Product of the Year (2011) (selected by editors of an industry magazine, based on comfort and safety) &#149; Motocrossgear.com : Perfect Score to New 2012 Leatt-Brace Chest Protector Adventure Pro (selected by an industry website, based on looks, comfort and safety) &#149; Transworld Motorcross Magazine : Chest Protector Leatt Pro Lite was awarded &#147;Product of the Year&#148; for 2012 (selected by editors of industry magazine based on testing and looks) &#149; PPS Moto: This Motocross Product review website awarded the Company the 2014 PPS Moto Protective Gear Company of the Year Award. &#149; Mountainbike Magazine : The Leatt F4 Hydration System won the Design and Innovation Award for 2015. The product was chosen from over 100 brands and vetted by an international jury featuring top athletes, including Enduro World Series Winner, Nico Lau. &#149; 2015 Vital MX Audience Survey : The Leatt Neck Brace was voted the number one Neck Brace to buy in the Vital MX Audience Survey. &#149; Design &#38; Innovation 2016 Awards: The Leatt DBX 5.0 Composite Helmet won a Design and Innovation Award for 2016. The Design &#38; Innovation jury of bicycle industry experts seeks to recognize bicycles and bicycle products. &#149; Design &#38; Innovation 2016 Awards: The Leatt DBX Enduro Lite WP 2.0 won a Design and Innovation Award for 2016. The Design &#38; Innovation jury of bicycle industry experts seeks to recognize bicycles and bicycle products. We believe that the quality of Leatt-Brace&#174; products has resulted in increased sales since inception. We have sold in excess of 640 000 units of Leatt-Brace&#174; products worldwide to date. Approximately 9% of our 2010 unit sales were from our DBX bicycle brace. This number increased to 10% of unit sales in 2014 and has increased to 13% of unit sales in 2015. Our STX street brace, which was introduced to the market in 2011, accounted for 1% of unit sales in 2014 and 2% of unit sales in 2015.

- 22 - 

Manufacturing 

Our products are manufactured in China in accordance with our manufacturing specifications, pursuant to outsource manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers located there. Our third-party manufacturers usually have the capacity to produce more than 120,000 neck braces per year and have the space to expand such capacity as required. We do not currently have written agreements with our neck brace third-party manufacturers but will include any such future written agreement with our periodic filings. We have a manufacturing agreement with our Helmet manufacturer and will file agreements as they become material. We generally offer a 2-year warranty on our products in accordance with EU regulations. Products purchased through international sales are usually shipped directly from our manufacturers&#146; warehouses or points of dispatch to customers or their import agents. 

Upon internal determination of order quantities, we order from these third-party manufacturers by means of issuing a manufacturing purchase order. The purchase price for each such order is negotiated with the manufacturer and then a deposit of between 10 &#150; 30% of the total purchase order value is made with the manufacturer upon receipt of the manufacturer&#146;s invoice reflecting quantities ordered and negotiated price. The standard agreed on lead time from order date to ship-ready date is 70 days, and our usually agreed on shipping terms are FOB (Port). Products purchased through international sales are usually shipped directly from our manufacturers&#146; warehouses or points of dispatch to customers or their import agents. 

During production, we measure the manufacturer&#146;s on-time performance to determine whether to continue our outsource relationship. We utilize outside consultants and our own employees to ensure the quality of our products through regular on-site product inspections. Such quality inspections are conducted in conformance with ISO/IEC 17025 specifications at the manufacturer&#146;s premises and penalties are levied against a manufacturer if any delay in shipment to customers or customer rejection or non-acceptance is caused by quality issues. The balance of the open invoices is paid to the manufacturer six weeks after successful inspection.

Raw Materials and Suppliers 

Our products are manufactured from generally available engineering materials, such as thermoset carbon fiber, glass fiber reinforced nylon, high impact polycarbonate resin. The cost of materials used in our products varies depending on the target market for, and the price of, our products. The prices of these raw materials are determined based upon prevailing market conditions and supply and demand and global conditions may impact the supply of these raw materials and adversely affect the supply of our products. We have not experienced any interruptions to our production due to shortage of our raw materials.

Our third-party manufacturers arrange for the purchase of most of the raw materials that are used to manufacture our products and they pay for the cost of such materials. We may occasionally directly source and pay for highly specialized protection materials, such as Armourgel, for use in the production of our products. These protection materials are freely available. We may also occasionally acquire raw materials on behalf of a third-party manufacturer in order to secure and maintain a specified production capacity. The expenses incurred for such materials for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, were not material and we do not foresee these amounts being material in the near future. 

We have implemented certain protocols to check the quality of raw materials used in the production process. Our third-party manufacturers are required to perform prescribed strength testing on critical parts of certain products. In addition, certain materials are tested by our research and development staff at Leatt SA and by independent material laboratories for compliance to manufacturing and material specification. 

Our Customers 

Leatt earns revenues through the sale of its products to customers worldwide through a global network of distributors and retailers. Leatt also acts as the original equipment manufacturer for neck braces sold by certain international brands. Leatt sells its products directly to distributors in South Africa (through Leatt SA), in the USA (through Two Eleven), and through a network of 60 third-party distributors worldwide. Our distributors are required to follow certain standard business terms and guidelines for the sale and distribution of our products. Two Eleven also sells our products directly to consumers through our online store available at www.leatt.com.

Products purchased through international sales are usually shipped directly from our manufacturers&#146; warehouses or points of dispatch to customers or their import agents. Revenue and related cost of revenue is recognized at the time of shipment from the manufacturer&#146;s port when shipping terms are Free On Board (FOB) shipping point, Cost and Freight (CFR) or Cost and Insurance to named place (CIP) as legal title and risk of loss to the product pass to the customer.

We generate revenue both in the United States and internationally. For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, annual revenues associated with international customers were $11,642,970 and $11,025,185, or 63% and 60% of total revenue, respectively 

- 23 - 

We have derived a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers, however none of our customers account for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2014, our U.S. revenue was concentrated in one customer that accounted for approximately 13%, of annual U.S. revenue, with our largest customer in the U.S. accounting for approximately 7 % of our U.S. sales for the year ended December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, $0 or 0% and $738,780, or 17% of our accounts receivable, was due from this customer. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, our international revenue (not including the U.S.) was earned from two customers that accounted for approximately 24% and 24% of our annual international revenue for the respective periods, with our largest international customer accounting for approximately 17% and 12% of international sales for each of the respective periods. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, $344,589 or 11% and $699,127 or 16% of our accounts receivable, respectively, were due from these international customers.

Advertising and Marketing 

We first gained market recognition through customer word-of-mouth and later through third-party articles and reviews of the Leatt-Brace&#174; in motorcycle and racing magazines, and unsolicited and unpaid endorsements from current and former celebrity motocross (and other) riders, but we now advertise our products in various motorsport industry magazines and in related online media. We also enhance our image through the sponsorship of sporting events, teams and individuals.

We believe that, as a result of our marketing efforts, and based on our internal marketing estimates, we have approximately 812 active distributors and dealers who stock Leatt products in the U. S. and approximately 196 active distributors and dealers in South Africa. We expect that the number of our distributors and dealers will also grow as the market segments that we sell to and our product offering grows but we cannot guarantee that this will be the case.

Our advertising and marketing expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $1,498,307 and $1,442,450, respectively, representing approximately 8% and 8% of our revenues for each period.

Our Growth Strategy 

We are committed to growing our business in the coming years. The key elements of our growth strategy are summarized below: 

&#160; &#149; Regional Distributors . Our product range has attracted the interest of global retailers and distributors of protective gear for motor and extreme sports, as well as automotive and motorcycle manufacturers and racing teams like the KTM teams. The resultant interest and the expected demand for our products have prompted us to change our production and distribution strategy in order to cater to this demand. In November 2007, we established Two Eleven, our wholly owned California subsidiary, to manage and control the distribution of our products, particularly in the United States. We distribute products to international consumers through a network of international distributors who are selected by our management team based on their financial status and creditworthiness, their location in major geographic locations, their marketing and media presence, their portfolio of leading motorcycle brands and accessories, and their reputation among industry players. We are also in discussions with various suppliers of motor sports protective gear in various regions throughout the world, including Europe, Asia, South America and the Middle-East, in an effort to improve our network of distributors and dealers worldwide, with emphasis on emerging markets in the Middle-East and South America. We believe that regional distributors will better promote our products in the designated regions and expand our global customer base. 

&#160; &#160; 

&#149; OEM Manufacturers . We are seeking to expand our OEM services to other brands utilizing our Intellectual Property rights. With the launch of OEM agreements with other companies with their own established distribution networks, there are opportunities for us to greatly increase our regional distribution footprint globally. 

&#160; &#160; 

&#160; &#149; Industry Accreditation and Endorsements. We are pursuing accreditation and endorsements of our products from global motor sports governing bodies and industry organizations. We are in discussions with governing racing bodies, such as the Commission Internationale de Karting, or CIK, the FIM, the FIA, and NASCAR, to have the Leatt-Brace&#174; accredited. We believe that these accreditations and endorsements will increase sales of our products and solidify our position as a leader in safety products. SFI testing is compulsory for neck protection used in automotive racing in the United States, therefore should neck protection be compulsory we believe that such accreditations and endorsements will additionally increase our sales. 

&#160; &#160; 

&#160; &#149; Efforts to Promote Use of Our Products. We intend to promote the military use of our products to foreign governments worldwide, as well as promote the passage of standards and regulations prescribing the use of safety products such as ours by riders in South Africa as well as in other markets where we sell our products. We also intend to pursue large insurance carriers to mandate or incentivize their insured riders and/or drivers to wear safety products such as ours. 

- 24 - 

&#160; &#149; Expanding our Portfolio of Products . We are always looking for opportunities to introduce new products to reach a wider audience and penetrate new markets. This will include extending our product range to include both innovative protection products as well as peripheral or accessory products such as clothing. In the 2015 first quarter our Knee Brace was accepted for registration by both the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the UK&#146;s Medicine and Healthcare Regulatory Products Agency (MHRA), and our Shoulder Brace was accepted by the FDA, as Class 1 Medical Devices. FDA and MHRA registration will allow us take these products directly to market as medical devices for patients (not just athletes) recuperating from injuries, surgery, muscle tears or strains, dislocations, breaks or fractures. We also launched two additions to our body armor product range, namely helmets and gloves. We expect that our sales of peripheral or accessory products will increase in line with brand awareness. 

Our Research and Development Efforts 

Our Chairman and Founder, Dr. Christopher Leatt, is our primary research and development consultant and heads the research and development efforts conducted at our research facility, or Leatt Lab, located at our executive headquarters in Cape Town, South Africa. The facility houses a team of biomedical engineers and designers who ensure products are scientifically and mechanically sound. This facility features state of the art testing and prototyping equipment and sophisticated simulation models. Leatt also utilizes other consultants, academic institutions and engineering companies from time to time to assist us with our research and development efforts.

We believe that the development of new products and new technology is critical to our success. We are continuously working to improve the quality, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of our existing products. All our products have achieved CE certification when necessary. We are working to develop technology to expand our range of products with further innovation, comfort, ergonomics and market appeal. We believe that our scientific and medical approach to product development gives our products a competitive edge. 

Our research and development expenses for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, amounted to $1,180,227 and $1,222,209, respectively. These expenses included salaries for research and development staff as well as other direct product development and research costs.

Competition 

We compete with a small number of dominant competitors in the neck brace and body protection market, some of whom have substantially greater financial and other resources than we currently have. According to the RacerX survey discussed elsewhere herein and available at http:// mediakit.filterpubs.com/survey, our major competitors in the neck brace market is Atlas Brace USA, LLC, Alpinestars S.p.A and EVS Sports, and our major competitors in the body protection market is Fox Racing. 

Competition is based on quality, price reputation, industry endorsements and certifications, as well as, on product design, brand names, marketing support and distribution strategies. We believe that our products can be distinguished from the products offered by our competitors due to the fact that our products are innovative, safety tested, versatile, aesthetically appealing, priced competitively and comfortable without compromising quality and performance. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe that our competitive strengths include the following:

&#149; Intellectual Property. Licensed patented technology allows us to provide a product that cannot easily be duplicated by our competitors. We have invested extensive resources to patent our products worldwide and have taken legal action to protect our intellectual property rights from infringement. 

&#160; &#160; 

&#149; Diverse Multi-Cultural Skilled Management Team . Our management team is knowledgeable and experienced in the personal protective equipment industry, sports medicine and business development. Our executive corporate management team consists of Mr. Sean Macdonald, Dr. Christopher James Leatt, Mr. Erik Olsson and Mr. Todd Repsher. Mr. Macdonald is our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President and Director, and is a Chartered Accountant with 9 years&#146; experience in the financial and operational aspects of running sports orientated growth companies. Dr. Leatt is our Founder, Chairman and Research and Development consultant, who developed the Leatt-Brace&#174; from his study of the benefits and viability of a neck protection system for helmet clad sport and recreational users. Mr. Olsson is our General Manager and Head of International Distribution and has served as a Sales and Product Manager for various companies in the power sports industry for the past 16 years. Mr. Repsher is our US National Sales Manager, who is an award-winning sales executive with over fifteen years&#146; experience in the marketing and sales of sports orientated companies in North America. 

- 25 - 

&#149; Outsourced Manufacturing . We outsource our manufacturing to third-party manufacturers in order to produce large volumes of our products. The manufacturing process remains subject to our strict quality control guidelines safeguarded by our employees and the third party inspectors who we hire as consultants to ensure that these guidelines are being implemented at the production point. While such manufacturing arrangements pose a risk to our ability to safeguard our property technologies and may lead to increased costs, as discussed under the &#147;Risk Factors&#148; heading in this report, we expect that the increase in expected sales volumes will contribute to a lower production cost per unit and that this will translate to better margins for our distributors and retailers. 

&#160; &#160; 

&#149; Research, Development, Certification and Marketing Capabilities . We have in-house know how in the areas of product development, testing and accreditation, particularly in the field of personal protective equipment. With the experience and capabilities developed and established in taking our product to market, we believe that we are well positioned to develop, manufacture and market additional products. With our medical and mechanical expertise, demonstrated research and development capabilities, established outsource manufacturing capacity, established brand and our dedicated, loyal and enthusiastic distribution network, we believe that we have the components necessary to bring new successful products to market. 

&#160; &#160; 

&#149; Industry Accreditation, Testing Standards and Regulations. We are pursuing accreditation and endorsements of our products from global motor sports governing bodies and industry organizations. We have obtained homologations of our products from various global racing authorities where objective standards have been set and we are in discussions with governing racing bodies, such as the FIM, FIA, CIK, and NASCAR, to have the Leatt-Brace&#174; accredited. SFI testing is compulsory for neck protection used in automotive racing in the U. S., therefore any of our competitors will also have to pass the certification testing. Should industry accreditation become compulsory, we would be ahead of our competitors in the market place. 

&#160; &#160; 

&#149; Brand Recognition . A RacerX survey discussed elsewhere herein shows that Leatt had an approximately 58.9% market share for neck braces. We believe that public recognition of the Leatt&#174; brand drives the sales of our products, regardless of the action of competitors and competitive products. We expect that the reputation of our brand in the market place, particularly our product testing and applicable CE certification, will continue to ensure market acceptance and facilitate market penetration of our new products. In order to bolster and grow the Leatt&#174; brand, stringent quality control and assurance are our highest priority and our ongoing marketing, advertising and public relations efforts continue to stress the quality, safety and innovation of our products. 

Our Intellectual Property 

We believe that the continued success of our business is dependent on our intellectual property portfolio consisting of globally registered trademarks, design patents and utility patents related to the Leatt-Brace&#174;. Most of these initial intellectual property rights are held by Xceed Holdings, a corporation controlled by our Chairman, Dr. Christopher Leatt and the rest of these rights are held by the Company and Three Eleven Distribution, our South African subsidiary. We license most of our intellectual property from Xceed Holdings, pursuant to a patent and royalty license agreement, or Licensing Agreement, dated March 1, 2006, between the Company and Xceed Holdings. Under the terms of the Licensing Agreement, we are obligated to pay Xceed Holdings 4% of all our revenues from the Leatt-Brace&#174;. In addition, pursuant to a separate license agreement between us and Mr. De Villiers, we are obligated to pay a royalty fee of 1% of all our billed and received sales revenue, in quarterly installments, based on sales of the previous quarter, to a trust that is beneficially owned and controlled by Mr. De Villiers. We also rely on nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technology. 

The following table lists the patents and designs licensed from Xceed Holdings: 

Country Application No Patent No Filing Date Invention Title Status Renewal Date South Africa 2006/05044 2006/05044 6/20/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 Brazil PI0416971-9 &#160; 5/26/2006 Neck Brace Pending 11/26/2016 Canada 2,547,855 2,547,855 5/26/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 China 20048003507 2.4 &#160; 5/26/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 Indonesia W002006014 67 IDP0030269 6/19/2006 Neck Brace Granted 2/28/2017 Israel 175931 175931 6/19/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2018 Japan 2006541524 4553903 5/26/2006 Neck Brace Granted 7/22/2016 South Korea 10-2006- 7012173 10-0904041 6/19/2006 Neck Brace Granted 6/19/2016 Morocco PV29105 28229 6/15/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 Mexico JL/a/2006/000 026 301465 5/26/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 Malaysia PI 20062407 MY-145683-A 5/25/2006 Neck Brace Granted 3/15/2016 Singapore 200808773-6 148205 5/26/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 USA 11/440,576 7,993,293 5/25/2006 Neck Brace Granted 2/9/2019 USA (Broad) 11/690,412 8,002,723 3/23/2007 Neck Brace Granted 2/23/2019 USA (Continuation) 13/206,312 8,562,551 8/9/2011 Neck Brace Granted 4/22/2017 Eurasia 200601049 10815 6/26/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 

- 26 - 

Australia 2004293118 2004293118 6/23/2003 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 India 2315/CHENP/ 2006 6/26/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 Norway 20062971 327461 6/26/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 New Zealand 548068 548068 6/22/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 Vietnam 1-2006-01015 &#160; 6/26/2006 Neck Brace Granted 2/9/2016 Germany 04816084.0 6020040259 75,6 6/22/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 France 04816084.0 1696842 6/22/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 UK 04816084.0 1696842 6/22/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Switzerland 04816084.0 1696842 6/22/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Spain 04816084.0 2342402 6/22/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/26/2016 Italy 04816084.0 1696842 6/22/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Netherlands 04816084.0 1696842 6/22/2006 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Taiwan 97109256 I 359009 3/17/2008 SSS Brace Granted 2/28/2016 Brazil PI07180047 &#160; 4/27/2009 SSS Brace Pending 10/26/2016 China 2007 80047024.0 ZL200780047024 .0 6/19/2009 SSS Brace Granted 10/26/2016 Japan 2009-534037 &#160; 4/27/2009 SSS Brace Granted 03/13/2017 USA 12/447,452 8,484,768 4/27/2009 SSS Brace Granted 1/16/2017 New Zealand 577131 577131 5/21/2009 SSS Brace (clip) Granted 10/26/2016 New Zealand 592116 592116 5/21/2009 SSS Brace (tether) Granted 10/26/2016 USA 12/812,596 8,439,042 7/12/2010 MRX Brace Granted 14/11/2016 Australia 2009321240 2009321240 6/8/2011 MRX Brace Granted 11/26/2016 China 20098014755 8.X ZL200980147558 .X 5/26/2011 MRX Brace Granted 11/26/2016 Austria 09801554.8 EP 2376032 5/31/2011 MRX Brace Granted 11/30/2016 France 09801554.8 EP 2376032 11/26/2009 MRX Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Germany 09801554.8 60 2009 029 841.0 11/26/2009 MRX Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Italy 09801554.8 EP 2376032 11/26/2009 MRX Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Spain 09801554.8 EP 2376032 11/26/2009 MRX Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Sweden 09801554.8 EP 2376032 11/26/2009 MRX Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Netherlands 09801554.8 EP 2376032 11/26/2009 MRX Brace Granted 11/30/2016 UK 09801554.8 EP 2376032 11/26/2009 MRX Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Japan 2011-537006 5643960 5/19/2011 MRX Brace Granted 11/14/2017 Switzerland 09165346.9 2113231 7/13/2009 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Germany 09165346.9 602004035367.1 7/13/2009 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Spain 09165346.9 2377592 7/13/2009 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 France 09165346.9 2113231 7/13/2009 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 UK 09165346.9 2113231 7/13/2009 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Italy 09165346.9 2113231 7/13/2009 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 Netherlands 09165346.9 2113231 7/13/2009 Neck Brace Granted 11/30/2016 USA 29/224,261 D552,742 2/28/2005 Moto-R Brace Registered &#160; USA 29/225,477 D542,919 3/17/2005 Moto-GPX Brace Registered Europe 000 312 061- 0001 000 312 061-0001 3/17/2005 Moto-GPX Brace Registered 3/17/2020 New Zealand 405978 405978 3/16/2005 Moto-GPX Brace Registered 

South Africa F2006/01661 F2006/0166 1 10/26/2006 SSS Brace Registered &#160; USA 29/279,249 D631,167 4/24/2007 SSS Brace Registered &#160; Europe 000 711 130- 0001 000 711 130- 0001 4/20/2007 SSS Brace Registered 4/20/2017 USA 29/284,258 D592,310 9/4/2007 Moto-GPX Brace 2006 Registered Europe 000 785 373- 0001 000 785 373- 0001 9/6/2007 Moto-GPX Brace 2006 Registered 9/30/2017 USA 29/325,870 D633,623 10/7/2008 Damper Brace Registered &#160; 

- 27 - 

The following table lists our own patents and designs: 

Country Application No Patent No Filing date Invention Title Status Renewal Date Held by Leatt Corporation South Africa 2013/01921 &#160; 2013/01921 10/1/2010 Chest Protector Granted 10/01/2016 South Africa 2015/00206 &#160; 01/13/2015 Shoulder Brace Accepted &#160; USA 14/894,237 &#160; 11/25/2015 Knee Brace Pending &#160; Europe 14737320.3 &#160; 12/3/2015 Knee Brace Pending 5/26/2016 Canada 2,823,461 &#160; 3/22/2013 Golf Club Pending 9/22/2016 Japan 2013-529753 &#160; 3/22/2013 Golf Club Pending &#160; China 201180055504.8 &#160; 5/17/2013 Golf Club Granted 9/22/2016 UK 2498155 &#160; 4/22/2013 Golf Club Pending 9/30/2016 South Korea 10-2013-7010255 &#160; 4/22/2013 Golf Club Pending &#160; Australia 2011306375 &#160; 4/18/2013 Golf Club Pending 9/22/2016 PCT PCT/IB2015/050954 &#160; 2/09/2015 MX DH Helmet Pending &#160; PCT PCT/IB2015/053735 &#160; 5/21/2015 Turbine Helmet Pending &#160; UK 1522642.6 &#160; 12/22/2015 Boot Pending &#160; UK 1522062.7 &#160; 12/15/2015 Helmet Pending &#160; UK 1603129.6 &#160; 02/23/2016 Neck Brace Pending &#160; UK GB 1421423.3 12/02/2014 Mini Turbine Helmet Pending USA 29/381,768 &#160; D649,649 12/22/2010 STX Brace Registered &#160; Europe 001 251 508- 0001 &#160; 001 251 508- 12/23/2010 STX Brace Registered 12/23/2020 Australia 15733/2010 &#160; 334789 12/23/2010 STX Brace Registered 12/23/2016 Japan 2010-031383 &#160; 1422456 12/28/2010 STX Brace Registered 8/4/2016 USA 29/297,349 &#160; D609,815 11/08/2007 Leatt Sock Kit Registered &#160; USA 29/510,597 &#160; 12/02/2014 Visor Screw Pending &#160; USA 29,509,338 11/17/2014 Hydration System Pending Europe 2588 970 12/2/2014 Visor Screw &#38; Hydration System Pending 2/12/2019 Held by Three Eleven Distribution (Pty) Ltd. India 1863/KOLNP/ 2008 &#160; 5/8/2008 Helmet Pending &#160; Germany 06809017.4 60 2006 010 418.9-08 3/31/2008 Helmet Granted 10/13/2016 France 06809017.4 1933656 3/31/2008 Helmet Granted 10/13/2016 

UK 06809017.4 1933656 3/31/2008 Helmet Granted 10/13/2016 Italy 67618/BE/201 0 1933656 3/31/2008 Helmet Granted 10/13/2016 Netherlands 06809017.4 1933656 3/31/2008 Helmet Granted 10/13/2016 Austria 06809017.4 AT-E 0447866 3/31/2008 Helmet Granted 10/13/2016 Spain 06809017.4 1933656 3/31/2008 Helmet Granted 10/13/2016 Sweden 06809017.4 1933656 3/31/2008 Helmet Granted 10/13/2016 

____________________ * The Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, is an international agreement for filing patent applications having effect in up to 117 countries. Under the PCT, an inventor can file a single international patent application in one language with one patent office in order to simultaneously seek protection for an invention in up to 117 countries throughout the world. 

- 28 - 

Patents applicable to specific products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or patent grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Issued patents or patents based on pending patent applications or any future patent applications may not exclude competitors or may not provide a competitive advantage to us. In addition, patents issued or licensed to us may not be held valid if subsequently challenged and others may claim rights in or ownership of such patents. In addition, the validity and breadth of claims in protective gear technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, the extent of their enforceability and protection is highly uncertain.

The following table lists our licensed and/or registered and pending trademarks:

Country Trademark TM Class Application No Registration No Filing Date Renewal Date Status China Leatt-Brace 10 6287826 6287826 21/09/2007 20/02/2020 Registered China Leatt 10 6287824 6287824 21/09/2007 20/02/2020 Registered China The Helmet for your Neck Device 10 6287823 6287823 21/09/2007 20/02/2020 Registered CTM Leatt-Brace 9 6313993 6313993 19/09/2007 19/09/2017 Registered CTM The Helmet for your neck 9 6314009 6314009 19/09/2007 19/09/2017 Registered CTM Leatt 9 6314017 6314017 19/09/2007 19/09/2017 Registered CTM Device (The Helmet for your neck) 9 6314132 6314132 19/09/2007 19/09/2017 Registered USA ALPT 9 77/742,823 3,926,378 22/05/2009 01/03/2021 Registered USA Alternative Load Path Technology 9 77/742,826 3868833 22/05/2009 26/10/2020 Registered CTM Alternative Load Path Technology 9 8358046 8358046 11/06/2009 11/06/2019 Registered CTM Alternative Load Path 9 8358061 8358061 11/06/2009 11/06/2019 Registered CTM ALPT 9 8358079 8358079 11/06/2009 11/06/2019 Registered USA Leatt Device 9 77/765,739 3,861,760 23/06/2009 12/10/2020 Registered CTM Leatt Device 9 8444168 &#160; 23/07/2009 23/07/2019 Registered Australia Leatt 9,10, 28 1372902 1372902 16/07/2010 16/07/2020 Registered Japan Leatt 9, 10, 28 2010-056635 5432253 16/07/2010 12/08/2021 Registered Japan Leatt 25 2010-74427 5403909 22/09/2010 01/04/2021 Registered CTM Leatt 25 9395997 9395997 23/09/2010 23/09/2020 Registered Brazil Leatt Brace 10 829468323 829468323 03/11/2010 03/11/2020 Registered 

- 29 - 

Brazil Leatt Brace (Special Script) 9 829994920 829994920 24/11/2008 08/02/2021 Registered Brazil Leatt Brace (Special Script) 25 829994939 829994939 24/11/2008 08/02/2021 Registered Brazil Leatt (Special Script) 9 830409432 830.409.432 05/11/2009 09/10/2022 Registered Brazil Leatt and Device 9 830409440 830.409.440 05/11/2009 09/10/2022 Registered Brazil Leatt (Special Script) 10 902094165 902.094.165 05/11/2009 09/10/2022 Registered Brazil Leatt and Device 10 902094149 &#160; 05/11/2009 &#160; Published Brazil Leatt (Special Script) 25 902094238 902.094.238 05/11/2009 09/10/2022 Registered Brazil Leatt and Device 25 902094190 902.094.190 05/11/2009 09/10/2022 Registered Canada LEATT 25 1535498 841,643 13/07/2011 29/01/2028 Registered USA BraceOn 9 85/429,145 4,276,706 22/09/2011 15/01/2023 Registered Australia BraceOn 28 1450772 1450772 23/09/2011 23/09/2021 Registered CTM BraceOn 9, 28 10288405 10288405 23/09/2011 23/09/2021 Registered NZ Leatt 9 829603 829603 30/08/2010 30/08/2020 Registered NZ Leatt 25 831034 831034 27/09/2010 27/09/2020 Registered NZ Leatt 28 831035 831035 27/09/2010 27/09/2020 Registered NZ Leatt 10 831036 831036 27/09/2010 27/09/2020 Registered Brazil Device 10 902.094.084 902.094.084 05/11/2009 09/10/2022 Registered Brazil Device 25 902.094.157 902.094.157 05/11/2009 09/10/2022 Registered Brazil Device 9 830.409.416 830.409.416 05/11/2009 09/10/2022 Registered CTM Device 9, 25, 28 13289822 13289822 23/09/2014 23/09/2024 Registered USA THREE L DEVICE 9, 25, 28 86445638 &#160; 5/11/2014 &#160; Pending USA LEATT 9, 25, 28 86551815 &#160; 3/3/2015 &#160; Pending USA Leatt 25 85135308 4,202,879 22/09/2010 4/09/2021 Registered SA DEVICE (NEW LOGO) 9 2009/11856 2009/11856 26/06/2009 26/06/2019 Registered SA DEVICE (NEW LOGO) 10 2009/11857 2009/11857 26/06/2009 26/06/2019 Registered SA DEVICE (NEW LOGO) 28 2009/11858 2009/11858 26/06/2009 26/06/2019 Registered SA Leatt-Brace (Special Script) 10 2004/08584 2004/08584 28/05/2004 28/05/2014 Registered SA Leatt 10 2006/22761 2006/22761 26/09/2006 26/09/2016 Registered SA The Helmet for your Neck 10 2006/22760 2006/22760 26/09/2006 26/09/2016 Registered SA Helmet for your Neck Device 10 2007/15892 2007/15892 19/07/2007 19/07/2017 Registered SA Helmet for your Neck Device 28 2007/15893 2007/15893 19/07/2007 19/07/2017 Registered SA Adventure Leatt and Device 9 2008/15403 2008/15403 04/07/2008 04/07/2018 Registered SA Adventure Leatt and Device 10 2008/15404 2008/15404 04/07/2008 04/07/2018 Registered SA Adventure Leatt and Device 28 2008/15405 2008/15405 04/07/2008 04/07/2018 Registered SA Adventure Brace 9 2008/28131 2008/28131 01/12/2008 01/12/2018 Registered SA Adventure Brace 10 2008/28132 2008/28132 01/12/2008 01/12/2018 Registered SA Adventure Brace 28 2008/28133 2008/28133 01/12/2008 01/12/2018 Registered USA Leatt-Brace 9 77227507 3483439 11/07/2007 12/08/2018 Registered USA The Helmet For Your Neck Device 9 77236512 3483523 23/07/2007 12/08/2018 Registered USA The Helmet For Your Neck 9 77264171 3483644 24/08/2007 12/08/2018 Registered 

- 30 - 

USA LEATT 9 77264178 3483646 24/08/2007 12/08/2018 Registered CTM Adventure Brace 9, 10, 28 8224479 8224479 26/03/2009 26/03/2019 Registered China Leatt-Brace 9 7668832 7668832 09/03/2009 06/03/2021 Registered China LEATT 9 7668830 7668830 03/09/2009 06/03/2021 Registered China The Helmet For Your Neck Device 9 7668857 7668857 03/09/2009 06/03/2021 Registered China Leatt 25 8706821 870682 28/09/2010 28/09/2021 Registered 

___________________ * A Community Trade Mark or CTM, is any trademark which is pending registration or has been registered in the European Union as a whole (rather than on a national level within the EU). The CTM system creates a unified trademark registration system in Europe, whereby one registration provides protection by being enforceable in all member states of the EU. 

____________________ 

From time to time, we have had to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation and we may be required to do so in the future. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us. We cannot assure you that our competitors have not developed or will not develop similar products, will not duplicate our products, or will not design around any patents issued to or licensed by us. We believe that a loss of these rights would harm or cause a material disruption to our business and, our corporate strategy is to aggressively take legal action against any violators of our intellectual property rights, regardless of where they may be. 

- 31 - 

Our Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 39 full-time employees, 7 independent contractors and no part-time employees. The following table sets forth the number of our full-time employees by function as of December 31, 2015. 

Employee Function Number Executive 2 Internet Technology 2 Product 4 Marketing 5 Finance 4 Operations and Distributions/Logistics 5 Research and Development / Leatt Lab 4 Legal and Compliance 2 Sales/Customer Services 9 Support Staff (Receptionist/Cleaners/Driver) 2 Independent Contractors 7 Total 46 

We are required to pay UIF, or unemployment insurance, for each of our South African employees. We are also required to withhold income taxes for our South African and U.S. based employees. We generally provide health care benefits and other standard benefits to our employees. We do not have any pension or retirement plans for any of our employees.

We believe that we maintain a satisfactory working relationship with our employees and we have not experienced any significant labor disputes or any difficulty in recruiting staff for our operations.

Regulations 

The 2012 JOBS Act 

We qualify as an &#147;emerging growth company,&#148; as defined in Title I of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the &#147;JOBS Act&#148;). An emerging growth company is defined as an issuer, including a foreign private issuer, with less than $1 billion of total annual gross revenues during the most recently completed fiscal year. The SEC has interpreted &#147;total annual gross revenues&#148; to mean total revenues as presented on the income statement presentation under U.S. GAAP, which for the Company was $18.6 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015. We will retain our status as an emerging growth company until the earlier of: (1) the fifth anniversary of the date we first sell securities pursuant to an IPO registration statement; (2) the last day of the fiscal year in which we first exceed $1 billion in annual gross revenues; (3) the time we become a large accelerated filer (an SEC registered company with a public float of at least $700 million); or (4) the date on which we have issued, within the previous three years, $1 billion of nonconvertible debt, whether issued in a registered or unregistered offering and whether or not it is still outstanding at the determination date. 

The JOBS Act provides scaled disclosure provisions for us, including, among other things: (a) permitting us to include only two years of audited financial statements in a registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933 for an IPO of common equity securities; (b) allowing us to comply with the smaller reporting company version of Item 402 of Regulation S-K (Executive Compensation); and (c) removing the requirement that our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The JOBS Act also exempts us from the following additional compensation-related disclosure provisions that were imposed on U.S. public companies pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act: the advisory &#147;say-on-pay&#148; vote on executive compensation required under Section 14A(a) of the Exchange Act; the Section 14A(b) requirements relating to shareholder advisory votes on golden parachute compensation; the Section 14(i) requirements for disclosure relating to the relationship between executive compensation and financial performance of the issuer; and the requirement of Dodd-Frank Act Section 953(b)(1), which will require disclosure as to the relationship between CEO and median employee pay. 

- 32 - 

Under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act, "emerging growth companies" can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. However, we have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this extended transition period for compliance with new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not "emerging growth companies.&#148; 

European Union Directives 

All our products are compliant with applicable European Union directives, or CE certified, where appropriate. All Leatt Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) products are CE Certified showing compliance with European Economic Community (EEC) directive 89/686/EEC that imposes mandatory accreditation of all Personal Protective Equipment products offered for sale in the EEC. This includes the Company&#146;s Leatt-Brace&#174; and body protection products. 

This means that as a minimum these products must comply with: the basic Health and Safety requirements of the directive; certain chemical innocuousness tests prescribed in EN 340:2003 - Protective clothing &#150; General Requirements ; and the requirements relating to usage, care, cleaning, sizing and other information to be supplied with the product. Accordingly, all Leatt-Braces&#174;, chest protectors and body protection products are CE certified. Only our peripheral products such as jackets, clothing, and caps are not covered. 

In addition to the minimum requirements the Company complies with the European Standards, or EN (European Norm), specific to certain categories of PPE. An EN is a standard that has been adopted by one of the three recognized European Standardization Organizations (ESOs): CEN, CENELEC or ETSI. It is produced by all interested parties (including manufacturers, users, consumers and regulators of a particular material, product, process or service) through a transparent, open and consensus based process. In the Company&#146;s case these are the applicable EN standards: EN 14021 Stone Shields; EN 1621-1 Limb Protectors; EN 1621-2 Back Protectors; and CE EN1621-3 level 2 impact front Chest Protectors. These standards are more performance related and, among other things, measure the performance of PPE at various intensity levels and under different environmental conditions. They also prescribe product labeling, tests for user comfort and ease of use. Also, where no specific standards exist such as with the brace, the Notifying Body (responsible for CE evaluation and certification). 

FDA and MHRA Registration 

In the 2015 first quarter our Knee Brace was accepted for registration by both the FDA and the MHRA, and our Shoulder Brace was accepted by the FDA, as Class 1 Medical Devices. FDA and MHRA registration will allow us take these products directly to market as medical devices for patients (not just athletes) recuperating from injuries, surgery, muscle tears or strains, dislocations, breaks or fractures. The Company&#146;s FDA registration included the contract manufacturer of the braces, a Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) vendor. For the initial registration period, which expires in December 31, 2015, we will be required to maintain logs of complaints or problems, and to provide appropriate labeling for medical uses. We have renewed our registration until December 31, 2016. The MHRA registration of the knee brace is open-ended, subject to the Company&#146;s continued monitoring of product performance in the market place and delivery of prompt responses to the MHRA as necessary.

Other Accreditation 

We have also obtained certification for certain of our products, such as the MRX head and neck restraint system, by the SFI Foundation (USA), or the SFI. To attain SFI certification, a safety device must, every five years, pass a series of impact sled tests with an instrumented crash test dummy at a SFI accredited test lab, as well as flammability tests on various parts of the safety device. These tests are done according to the SFI38.1 specification that can be found at http://www.sfifoundation.com. SFI 38.1 accreditation is mandatory for any safety device that is used by participants in SFI sanctioned events worldwide. We also voluntarily submitted our Moto GPX neck brace to be tested by the in-house engineers of BMW Motorrad (Germany) and to be reviewed by KTM (Austria). We believe that such testing, while not mandatory, provides validation for our product&#146;s performance. 

We are also in discussions with governing and racing bodies, such as the FIA, the FIM and NASCAR, to have the Leatt-Brace&#174; accredited by these bodies. To acquire NASCAR accreditation, the safety device must obtain SFI 38.1 accreditation, discussed above, and be recertified every 5 years. In addition, the safety device must undergo review and a series of NASCAR specific tests by NASCAR&#146;s technical panel to ensure that it meets all the NASCAR safety requirements. NASCAR accreditation is mandatory for any safety device that is used by participants in NASCAR events. To acquire FIA accreditation, the safety device must obtain SFI 38.1 accreditation, discussed above, and be recertified every 5 years. In addition, the device must undergo review by a FIA technical panel, which assesses the device in accordance with FIA standards for frontal head restraint (FHR) systems and conduct more product specific testing if necessary. To achieve FIA standards, the device must pass certain FIA stress tests for the FHR, the tethers and end fittings, and the attachments included on the protective helmet. FIA accreditation is mandatory for any safety device that is used by participants in FIA sanctioned events worldwide. While there is currently no official accreditation for FIM sanctioned events, we have submitted test documents for FIM review. We cannot guarantee that we will secure any of these accreditations.

- 33 - 

