 ITEM 1. Business. 

Washington Trust Bancorp, Inc. 

Washington Trust Bancorp, Inc. (the &#8220;Bancorp&#8221;), a publicly-owned registered bank holding company and financial holding company, was organized in 1984 under the laws of the state of Rhode Island. The Bancorp owns all of the outstanding common stock of The Washington Trust Company, of Westerly (the &#8220;Bank&#8221;), a Rhode Island chartered commercial bank founded in 1800. The Bancorp was formed in 1984 under a plan of reorganization in which outstanding common shares of the Bank were exchanged for common shares of the Bancorp. See additional information under the caption &#8220;Subsidiaries.&#8221; 

Through its subsidiaries, the Bancorp offers a comprehensive product line of banking and financial services to individuals and businesses, including commercial, residential and consumer lending, retail and commercial deposit products, and wealth management services through its offices in Rhode Island, eastern Massachusetts and Connecticut; its automated teller machine (&#8220;ATM&#8221;) networks; and its Internet website at www.washtrust.com. The Bancorp&#8217;s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ OMX&#174; Market under the symbol &#8220;WASH.&#8221; 

The accounting and reporting policies of the Bancorp and its subsidiaries (collectively, the &#8220;Corporation&#8221; or &#8220;Washington Trust&#8221;) conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (&#8220;GAAP&#8221;) and to general practices of the banking industry. At December 31, 2015 , Washington Trust had total assets of $3.8 billion , total deposits of $2.9 billion &#32;and total shareholders&#8217; equity of $375.4 million . 

Business Segments 

Washington Trust manages its operations through two business segments: Commercial Banking and Wealth Management Services. Activity not related to the segments, including activity related to the investment securities portfolio, wholesale matters and administrative units are considered Corporate. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosure related to business segments. 

- 3 - 

Commercial Banking 

Lending Activities 

Washington Trust&#8217;s total loan portfolio amounted to $3.0 billion , or 80% &#32;of total assets, at December 31, 2015 . The Corporation&#8217;s lending activities are conducted primarily in southern New England and, to a lesser extent, other states. Washington Trust offers a variety of commercial and retail lending products. Interest rates charged on loans may be fixed or variable and vary with the degree of risk, loan term, underwriting and servicing costs, loan amount, and the extent of other banking relationships maintained with customers. Rates are further subject to competitive pressures, the current interest rate environment, availability of funds, and government regulations. 

Commercial Loans 

Commercial lending represents a significant portion of the Bank&#8217;s loan portfolio. Commercial loans fall into two major categories: commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. 

Commercial real estate loans consist of commercial mortgages secured by real property where the primary source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property or the proceeds of the sale, refinancing or permanent financing of the property. Commercial real estate loans also include construction loans made to businesses for land development or the on-site construction of industrial, commercial, or residential buildings. Commercial real estate loans frequently involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. The Bank&#8217;s commercial real estate loans are secured by a variety of property types, such as office buildings, retail facilities, commercial mixed use, multi-family dwellings, lodging and industrial and warehouse properties. At December 31, 2015 , commercial real estate loans represented 64% &#32;and 35% , respectively, of the commercial loan and total loan portfolios. 

Commercial and industrial loans primarily provide working capital, equipment financing and financing for other business-related purposes. Commercial and industrial loans are frequently collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, and/or general business assets. A significant portion of the Bank&#8217;s commercial and industrial loan portfolio is also collateralized by real estate. Commercial and industrial loans also include tax exempt loans made to states and political subdivisions, as well as industrial development or revenue bonds issued through quasi-public corporations for the benefit of a private or non-profit entity where that entity rather than the governmental entity is obligated to pay the debt service. The Bank&#8217;s commercial and industrial loan portfolio includes loans to business sectors such as healthcare/social assistance, owner occupied and other real estate, manufacturing, retail trade, professional services, entertainment and recreation, public administration, accommodation and food services, construction businesses, and wholesale trade businesses. At December 31, 2015 , commercial and industrial loans represented 36% &#32;and 20% , respectively, of the commercial loan and total loan portfolios. 

The commercial loan portfolio represented 55% &#32;of total loans at December 31, 2015 . In making commercial loans, Washington Trust may occasionally solicit the participation of other banks. Washington Trust also participates from time to time in commercial loans originated by other banks. In such cases, these loans are individually underwritten by us using standards similar to those employed for our self-originated loans. Occasionally, the guaranteed portion of Small Business Administration (&#8220;SBA&#8221;) loans are sold to investors. 

Residential Real Estate Loans 

The residential real estate loan portfolio consists of mortgage and homeowner construction loans secured by one- to four-family residential properties and represented 34% &#32;of total loans at December 31, 2015 . Residential real estate loans are primarily originated by commissioned mortgage originator employees. Residential real estate loans are originated both for sale in the secondary market as well as for retention in the Bank&#8217;s loan portfolio. Loan sales to the secondary market provide funds for additional lending and other banking activities. Loans originated for sale in the secondary market are sold to investors such as the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (&#8220;FHLMC&#8221;), Federal National Mortgage Association (&#8220;FNMA&#8221;) and other institutional investors. Washington Trust sells loans with servicing retained or released. Residential real estate loans are also originated for various investors in a broker capacity, including conventional mortgages and reverse mortgages. In 2015 , residential mortgage loan originations for retention in portfolio amounted to $234.9 million, while loans originated for sale in the secondary market, including loans originated in a broker capacity, totaled $523.8 million. 

- 4 - 

Also included in the residential real estate mortgage portfolio are purchased mortgage loans secured by one- to four-family residential properties in southern New England and other states. These loans were purchased from other financial institutions prior to March 2009 and were individually underwritten by us at the time of purchase using standards similar to those employed for our self-originated loans. At December 31, 2015 , purchased residential mortgages represented 3% &#32;and 1% , respectively, of the total residential real estate mortgage and total loan portfolios. 

Consumer Loans 

The consumer loan portfolio represented 11% &#32;of total loans as of December 31, 2015 . Consumer loans include home equity loans and lines of credit and personal installment loans. Home equity lines and home equity loans represent 88% &#32;of the total consumer portfolio at December 31, &#160; 2015 . All home equity lines and home equity loans were originated by Washington Trust in its general market area. The Bank estimates that approximately 65% of the combined home equity line and home equity loan balances are first lien positions or subordinate to other Washington Trust mortgages. 

Washington Trust also purchases loans to individuals secured by general aviation aircraft. These loans are individually underwritten by us at the time of purchase using standards similar to those employed for self-originated consumer loans. At December 31, 2015 , these purchased loans represented 10% &#32;and 1% , respectively, of the total consumer loan and total loan portfolios. 

Credit Risk Management and Asset Quality 

Washington Trust utilizes the following general practices to manage credit risk: 

&#8226; 

Limiting the amount of credit that individual lenders may extend; 

&#8226; 

Establishment of formal, documented processes for credit approval accountability; 

&#8226; 

Prudent initial underwriting and analysis of borrower, transaction, market and collateral risks; 

&#8226; 

Ongoing servicing of the majority of individual loans and lending relationships; 

&#8226; 

Continuous monitoring of the portfolio, market dynamics and the economy; and 

&#8226; 

Periodic reevaluation of our strategy and overall exposure as economic, market and other relevant conditions change. 

The credit risk management function is conducted independently of the lending groups. Credit risk management is responsible for oversight of the commercial loan rating system, determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and for preparing monthly and quarterly reports regarding the credit quality of the loan portfolio to ensure compliance with the credit policy. In addition, it is responsible for managing nonperforming and classified assets. The criticized loan portfolio, which consists of commercial loans that are risk rated special mention or worse, are monitored by management, focusing on the current status and strategies to improve the credit. An annual loan review program is conducted by a third party to provide an independent evaluation of the creditworthiness of the commercial loan portfolio, the quality of the underwriting and credit risk management practices and the appropriateness of the risk rating classifications. This review is supplemented with selected targeted reviews of the commercial loan portfolio. Various techniques are utilized to monitor indicators of credit deterioration in the portfolios of residential real estate mortgages and home equity lines and loans, along with selected targeted reviews within these portfolios. Among these techniques is the periodic tracking of loans with an updated FICO score and an estimated loan to value (&#8220;LTV&#8221;) ratio. LTV is determined via statistical modeling analyses. The indicated LTV levels are estimated based on such factors as the location, the original LTV, and the date of origination of the loan and do not reflect actual appraisal amounts. 

The Board of Directors of the Bank monitors credit risk management through two committees, the Finance Committee and the Audit Committee. The Finance Committee has primary oversight responsibility for the credit granting function, including approval authority for credit granting policies, review of management&#8217;s credit granting activities and approval of large exposure credit requests. The Audit Committee oversees various systems and procedures performed by management to monitor the credit quality of the loan portfolio, conduct a loan review program, maintain the integrity of the loan rating system and determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. The Audit Committee also approves the policy and methodology for establishing the allowance for loan losses. These committees report the results of their respective oversight functions to the Bank&#8217;s Board of Directors. In addition, the Bank&#8217;s Board of Directors receives information concerning asset quality measurements and trends on a regular basis. 

- 5 - 

Deposit Activities 

At December 31, 2015 , total deposits amounted to $2.9 billion . Deposits represent Washington Trust&#8217;s primary source of funds and are gathered primarily from the areas surrounding our branch network. The Bank offers a wide variety of deposit products with a range of interest rates and terms to consumer, commercial, non-profit and municipal deposit customers. Washington Trust&#8217;s deposit accounts consist of interest-bearing checking, noninterest-bearing checking, savings, money market and certificates of deposit. A variety of retirement deposit accounts are offered to personal and business customers. Additional deposit services provided to customers include debit cards, ATMs, telephone banking, Internet banking, mobile banking, remote deposit capture and other cash management services. From time to time, brokered time deposits from out-of-market institutional sources are utilized as part of our overall funding strategy. 

Washington Trust is a participant in the Insured Cash Sweep (&#8220;ICS&#8221;) program, the Demand Deposit Marketplace (&#8220;DDM&#8221;) program and the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service (&#8220;CDARS&#8221;) program. Washington Trust uses these deposit sweep services to place customer funds into interest-bearing demand accounts, money market accounts, and/or certificates of deposits issued by other participating banks. Customer funds are placed at one or more participating banks to ensure that each deposit customer is eligible for the full amount of FDIC insurance. As a program participant, we receive reciprocal amounts of deposits from other participating banks. ICS, DDM and CDARS deposits are considered to be brokered deposits for bank regulatory purposes. We consider these reciprocal deposit balances to be in-market deposits as distinguished from traditional out-of-market brokered deposits. 

Wealth Management Services 

Washington Trust provides a broad range of wealth management services to personal and institutional clients and mutual funds. These services include investment management; financial planning; personal trust and estate services, including services as trustee, personal representative, custodian and guardian; and settlement of decedents&#8217; estates. Institutional trust services are also provided, including custody and fiduciary services. Wealth management services are primarily provided through the Bank and its registered investment adviser subsidiaries. See additional information under the caption &#8220;Subsidiaries.&#8221; 

At December 31, 2015 , wealth management assets under administration totaled $5.8 billion . These assets are not included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Washington Trust&#8217;s wealth management business generated revenues totaling $35.4 million &#32;in 2015 , representing 22% &#32;of total revenues. A substantial portion of wealth management revenues is largely dependent on the value of wealth management assets under administration and is closely tied to the performance of the financial markets. This portion of wealth management revenues is referred to as &#8220;asset-based&#8221; and includes trust and investment management fees and mutual fund fees. Wealth management revenues also include &#8220;transaction-based&#8221; revenues, such as financial planning, commissions and other service fees that are not primarily derived from the value of assets. 

Investment Securities Portfolio 

Washington Trust&#8217;s investment securities portfolio amounted to $395.1 million , or 10% &#32;of total assets, at December 31, &#160; 2015 &#32;and is managed to generate interest income, to implement interest rate risk management strategies and to provide a readily available source of liquidity for balance sheet management. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Washington Trust may acquire, hold and transact in various types of investment securities in accordance with applicable federal regulations, state statutes and guidelines specified in Washington Trust&#8217;s internal investment policy. At December 31, 2015 , the Corporation&#8217;s investment securities portfolio consisted of obligations of U.S. government agencies and government-sponsored enterprises, including mortgage-backed securities; municipal securities; individual name issuer trust preferred debt securities; and corporate debt securities. 

Investment activity is monitored by an Investment Committee, the members of which also sit on the Corporation&#8217;s Asset/Liability Committee (&#8220;ALCO&#8221;). Asset and liability management objectives are the primary influence on the Corporation&#8217;s investment activities. However, the Corporation also recognizes that there are certain specific risks inherent in investment portfolio activity. The securities portfolio is managed in accordance with regulatory guidelines and established internal corporate investment policies that provide limitations on specific risk factors such as market risk, credit risk and concentration, liquidity risk and operational risk to help monitor risks associated with investing in securities. Reports on 

- 6 - 

the activities conducted by Investment Committee and the ALCO are presented to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. 

Wholesale Funding Activities 

The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (&#8220;FHLBB&#8221;). The Bank utilizes advances from the FHLBB to meet short-term liquidity needs, and also to fund additions to the securities portfolio and loan growth. As a member of the FHLBB, the Bank must own a minimum amount of FHLBB stock, calculated periodically based primarily on its level of borrowings from the FHLBB. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank had advances payable to the FHLBB of $379.0 million . In addition the Bank had borrowing capacity remaining of $644.8 million , as well as a $40.0 million &#32;unused line of credit with the FHLBB at December 31, 2015 . The Bank pledges certain qualified investment securities and loans as collateral to the FHLBB. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Additional funding sources are available through the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and in other forms of borrowing, such as securities sold under repurchase agreements. As noted above under the heading &#8220;Deposit Activities,&#8221; the Corporation also utilizes out-of-market brokered time deposits as part of its overall funding program. 

Subsidiaries 

The Bancorp&#8217;s subsidiaries include the Bank and Weston Securities Corporation (&#8220;WSC&#8221;). In addition, as of December 31, &#160; 2015 , the Bancorp also owned all of the outstanding common stock of WT Capital Trust I and WT Capital Trust II, special purpose finance entities formed with the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred debt securities and investing the proceeds in junior subordinated debentures of the Bancorp. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

The following is a description of Bancorp&#8217;s primary operating subsidiaries: 

The Washington Trust Company, of Westerly 

The Bank was originally chartered in 1800 as the Washington Bank and is the oldest banking institution headquartered in its market area and is among the oldest banks in the United States. Its current corporate charter dates to 1902. 

The Bank provides a broad range of financial services, including lending, deposit and cash management services and wealth management services. The deposits of the Bank are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;), subject to regulatory limits. 

The Bank has two registered investment adviser subsidiaries, Weston Financial Group, Inc. (&#8220;Weston Financial&#8221;) and Halsey Associates, Inc. (&#8220;Halsey&#8221;). Weston Financial and its broker-dealer and insurance agency subsidiaries were acquired by the Bancorp in August 2005. Weston Financial is located in Wellesley, Massachusetts. Halsey was acquired by the Bancorp in August 2015 and is located in New Haven, Connecticut. The acquisitions of Weston Financial and Halsey expanded the geographic reach of Washington Trust&#8217;s wealth management business. 

The Bank also has a mortgage banking subsidiary, Washington Trust Mortgage Company LLC (&#8220;WTMC&#8221;) that is licensed to do business in Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Connecticut and New Hampshire. See &#8220;-Supervision and Regulation-Consumer Protection Regulation-Mortgage Reform&#8221; for a discussion of certain regulations that apply to WTMC. Washington Trust&#8217;s mortgage origination business conducted in most of our residential mortgage lending offices located outside of Rhode Island is performed by this Bank subsidiary. 

The Bank has other subsidiaries whose primary functions are to provide servicing on passive investments, such as loans acquired from the Bank and investment securities. The Bank also has a limited liability company subsidiary that serves as a special limited partner responsible for certain administrative functions associated with the Bank&#8217;s investment in two real estate limited partnerships. 

Weston Securities Corporation 

WSC is a licensed broker-dealer that markets several investment programs, including mutual funds and variable annuities, primarily to Weston Financial clients. WSC acts as the principal distributor to a group of mutual funds for which Weston Financial is the investment adviser. 

- 7 - 

Market Area 

Washington Trust is headquartered in Westerly in Washington County, Rhode Island. Washington Trust&#8217;s primary deposit gathering area consists of the communities that are served by its branch network. As of December 31, 2015 , the Bank had 10 branch offices located in southern Rhode Island (Washington County), 9 branch offices located in the greater Providence area in Rhode Island and 1 branch office located in southeastern Connecticut. We continue our expansion efforts into the greater Providence area as both the population and number of businesses in Providence County far exceed those in southern Rhode Island. We opened a new full-service branch in Providence, Rhode Island in January 2016 and plan to open another full-service branch in Coventry, Rhode Island in 2017. 

Washington Trust&#8217;s lending activities are conducted primarily in southern New England and, to a lesser extent, other states. In addition to branch offices, the Bank has a commercial lending office at its main office and in the financial district of Providence, Rhode Island. As of December 31, 2015 , Washington Trust has 6 residential mortgage lending offices: 3 located in eastern Massachusetts (Sharon, Burlington and Braintree), 2 Connecticut offices (Glastonbury and Darien) and a Warwick, Rhode Island office. 

Washington Trust provides wealth management services from its offices located in Westerly, Narragansett and Providence, Rhode Island, Wellesley, Massachusetts and New Haven, Connecticut. 

Competition 

Washington Trust faces considerable competition in its market area for all aspects of banking and related financial service activities. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations is expected to continue. 

Washington Trust contends with strong competition both in generating loans and attracting deposits. The primary factors in competing are interest rates, financing terms, fees charged, products offered, personalized customer service, online access to accounts and convenience of branch locations, ATMs and branch hours. Competition comes from commercial banks, credit unions, and savings institutions, as well as other non-bank institutions. Washington Trust faces strong competition from larger institutions with greater resources, broader product lines and larger delivery systems than the Bank. 

Washington Trust operates in a highly competitive wealth management services marketplace. Key competitive factors include investment performance, quality and level of service, and personal relationships. Principal competitors in the wealth management services business are commercial banks and trust companies, investment advisory firms, mutual fund companies, stock brokerage firms, and other financial companies. Many of these companies have greater resources than Washington Trust. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , Washington Trust had 582 employees consisting of 557 full-time and 25 part-time and other employees. Management considers relations with its employees to be good. Washington Trust maintains a comprehensive employee benefit program providing, among other benefits, group medical and dental insurance, life insurance, disability insurance and a 401(k) plan. The Corporation maintains a tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan for the benefit of certain eligible employees who were hired prior to October 1, 2007. The Corporation also has non-qualified retirement plans to provide supplemental retirement benefits to certain employees, as described in these plans. Defined benefit pension plans were previously amended to freeze benefit accruals after a ten-year transition period ending in December 2023. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on certain employee benefit programs. 

- 8 - 

Statistical Disclosures 

The information required by Securities Act Guide 3 &#8220;Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies&#8221; is located on the pages noted below. 

Description 

&#160; 

Page 

I. 

Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholder Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differentials 

41-42 

II. 

Investment Portfolio 

&#160; 

47-50, 88 

III. 

Loan Portfolio 

&#160; 

50-59, 92 

IV. 

Summary of Loan Loss Experience 

&#160; 

59-62, 101 

V. 

Deposits 

&#160; 

41, 105-106 

VI. 

Return on Equity and Assets 

&#160; 

VII. 

Short-Term Borrowings 

&#160; 

106-108 

Supervision and Regulation 

The Corporation is subject to extensive supervision, regulation, and examination by various bank regulatory authorities and other governmental agencies. Federal and state banking laws have as their principal objective the maintenance of the safety and soundness of financial institutions and the federal deposit insurance system or the protection of consumers or depositors, rather than the protection of shareholders of a bank holding company, such as the Bancorp. 

Set forth below is a brief description of certain laws and regulations that relate to the regulation of Washington Trust. The following discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations, policies and guidelines described below. 

Regulation of the Bancorp 

As a bank holding company, the Bancorp is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#8220;BHCA&#8221;) and the Rhode Island Department of Business Regulation, Division of Banking (the &#8220;RI Division of Banking&#8221;). 

The Federal Reserve has the authority to issue orders to bank holding companies to cease and desist from unsafe or unsound banking practices and violations of laws, regulations, or conditions imposed by, agreements with, or commitments to, the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve is also empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or individuals who violate the BHCA or orders or regulations thereunder, to order termination of non-banking activities of non-banking subsidiaries of bank holding companies, and to order termination of ownership and control of a non-banking subsidiary by a bank holding company. 

Source of Strength. Under the BHCA, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;), the Bancorp is required to serve as a source of financial strength for the Bank. This support may be required at times when the Bancorp may not have the resources to provide support to the Bank. In the event of a bank holding company&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a bank subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

Acquisitions and Activities. The BHCA prohibits a bank holding company, without prior approval of the Federal Reserve, from acquiring all or substantially all the assets of a bank, acquiring control of a bank, merging or consolidating with another bank holding company, or acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of another bank or bank holding company if, after such acquisition, the acquiring bank holding company would control more than 5% of the voting shares of such other bank or bank holding company. 

The BHCA also prohibits a bank holding company from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its subsidiary banks. In 2005, the Bancorp elected financial holding company status pursuant to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (&#8220;GLBA&#8221;). As a financial holding company, the Bancorp is authorized to engage in certain financial activities in which a bank holding company that has not elected to be a financial holding company may not engage. &#8220;Financial activities&#8221; is broadly defined to include not only banking, insurance and securities activities, but also merchant banking and additional activities that 

- 9 - 

the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines to be financial in nature, incidental to such financial activities, or complementary activities that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. Currently, as a financial holding company, the Bancorp engages, through WSC, in broker-dealer activities pursuant to this authority. 

If a financial holding company or any depository institution subsidiary of a financial holding company fails to remain well capitalized and well managed, the Federal Reserve may impose such limitations on the activities of the financial holding company as the Federal Reserve determines to be appropriate, including limitations that preclude the company and its affiliates from commencing any new activity or acquiring control of or shares of any company engaged in any activity that is authorized particularly for financial holding companies. The company must also enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable requirements to qualify as a financial holding company. If any insured depository institution subsidiary of a financial holding company remains out of compliance for 180 days or such longer period as the Federal Reserve permits, the Federal Reserve may require the financial holding company to divest either its insured depository institution or all of its non-banking subsidiaries engaged in activities not permissible for a bank holding company. If a financial holding company fails to maintain a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; or better record of performance under the Community Reinvestment Act (the &#8220;CRA&#8221;), the financial holding company will be prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from engaging in new activities, or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies, banks or savings associations, except that the Bancorp could engage in new activities, or acquire companies engaged in activities that are closely related to banking under the BHCA. 

Limitations on Acquisitions of Bancorp Common Stock. The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person or group of persons acting in concert from acquiring &#8220;control&#8221; of a bank holding company unless the Federal Reserve has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under a rebuttable presumption established by the Federal Reserve, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting securities of a bank holding company, such as the Bancorp, with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, would, under the circumstances set forth in the presumption, constitute the acquisition of control of a bank holding company. In addition, the BHCA prohibits any company from acquiring control of a bank or bank holding company without first having obtained the approval of the Federal Reserve. Among other circumstances, under the BHCA, a company has control of a bank or bank holding company if the company owns, controls or holds with power to vote 25% or more of a class of voting securities of the bank or bank holding company, controls in any manner the election of a majority of directors or trustees of the bank or bank holding company, or the Federal Reserve has determined, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the company has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of the bank or bank holding company. 

Regulation of the Bank 

The Bank is subject to the regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC, the RI Division of Banking and the Connecticut Department of Banking. The Bank is also subject to various Rhode Island and Connecticut business and banking regulations and the regulations issued by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the &#8220;CFPB&#8221;) (as examined and enforced by the FDIC). Additionally, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve may directly examine the subsidiaries of the Bancorp, including the Bank. 

Deposit Insurance. The deposit obligations of the Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC&#8217;s Deposit Insurance Fund (&#8220;DIF&#8221;) and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC deposit insurance limit to $250,000 per depositor for deposits maintained in the same right and capacity at a particular insured depository institution. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the &#8220;FDIA&#8221;), as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, requires the FDIC to take steps as may be necessary to cause the ratio of deposit insurance reserves to estimated insured deposits, the designated reserve ratio, to reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020, and it mandates that the reserve ratio designated by the FDIC for any year may not be less than 1.35%. The FDIC utilizes a risk-based assessment system that imposes insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account a bank&#8217;s capital level and supervisory rating. Assessment rates may also vary for certain institutions based on long-term debt issuer ratings, secured or brokered deposits. Deposit premiums are based on assets. To determine its deposit insurance premium, the Bank computes the base amount of its average consolidated assets less its average tangible equity (defined as the amount of Tier 1 capital) and the applicable assessment rate. The FDIC has the power to adjust deposit insurance assessment rates at any time. In addition, under the FDIA, the FDIC may terminate deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound 

- 10 - 

condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. The Bank&#8217;s FDIC insurance expense in 2015 &#32;was $1.8 million. 

Acquisitions and Branching. Prior approval from the RI Division of Banking and the FDIC is required in order for the Bank to acquire another bank or establish a new branch office. Well capitalized and well managed banks may acquire other banks in any state, subject to certain deposit concentration limits and other conditions, pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes a state-chartered bank, such as the Bank, to establish new branches on an interstate basis to the same extent a bank chartered by the host state may establish branches. 

Activities and Investments of Insured State-Chartered Banks. Section 24 of the FDIA generally limits the types of equity investments an FDIC-insured state-chartered bank, such as the Bank, may make and the kinds of activities in which such a bank may engage, as a principal, to those that are permissible for national banks. Further, the GLBA permits national banks and state banks, to the extent permitted under state law, to engage via financial subsidiaries in certain activities that are permissible for subsidiaries of a financial holding company. In order to form a financial subsidiary, a state-chartered bank must be well capitalized, and such banks must comply with certain capital deduction, risk management and affiliate transaction rules, among other requirements. 

Brokered Deposits. Section 29 of the FDIA and FDIC regulations generally limit the ability of an insured depository institution to accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless the institution&#8217;s capital category is &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; or, with the FDIC&#8217;s approval, &#8220;adequately capitalized.&#8221; Depository institutions, other than those in the lowest risk category, that have brokered deposits in excess of 10% of total deposits will be subject to increased FDIC deposit insurance premium assessments. Additionally, depository institutions considered &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; that need regulatory approval to accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposits are subject to additional restrictions on the interest rate they may pay on deposits. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank had brokered deposits in excess of 10% of total deposits. 

Community Reinvestment Act. The CRA requires the FDIC to evaluate the Bank&#8217;s performance in helping to meet the credit needs of the entire communities it serves, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with its safe and sound banking operations, and to take this record into consideration when evaluating certain applications. The FDIC&#8217;s CRA regulations are generally based upon objective criteria of the performance of institutions under three key assessment tests: (i) a lending test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s record of making loans in its service areas; (ii) an investment test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing, and programs benefiting low or moderate income individuals and businesses; and (iii) a service test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s delivery of services through its branches, ATMs, and other offices. Failure of an institution to receive at least a &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; rating could inhibit the Bank or the Bancorp from undertaking certain activities, including engaging in activities newly permitted as a financial holding company under GLBA and acquisitions of other financial institutions. The Bank has achieved a rating of &#8220;Satisfactory&#8221; on its most recent examination dated October 3, 2012. Rhode Island and Connecticut also have enacted substantially similar community reinvestment requirements. 

Lending Restrictions. Federal law limits a bank&#8217;s authority to extend credit to its directors, executive officers and 10% or more shareholders, as well as to entities controlled by such persons. Among other things, extensions of credit to insiders are required to be made on terms that are substantially the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons. Also, the terms of such extensions of credit may not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features and may not exceed certain limitations on the amount of credit extended to such persons, individually and in the aggregate, which limits are based, in part, on the amount of the bank&#8217;s capital. The Dodd-Frank Act explicitly provides that an extension of credit to an insider includes credit exposure arising from a derivatives transaction, repurchase agreement, reverse repurchase agreement, securities lending transaction or securities borrowing transaction. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act requires that asset sale transactions with insiders must be on market terms, and if the transaction represents more than 10% of the capital and surplus of the Bank, be approved by a majority of the disinterested directors of the Bank. 

Enforcement Powers. The FDIC, the RI Division of Banking and the Connecticut Department of Banking have the authority to issue orders to banks under their supervision to cease and desist from unsafe or unsound banking practices and violations of laws, regulations, or conditions imposed by, agreements with, or commitments to, the FDIC, the RI 

- 11 - 

Division of Banking or the Connecticut Department of Banking. The FDIC, the RI Division of Banking or the Connecticut Department of Banking is also empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or individuals who violate banking laws, orders or regulations. 

Capital Adequacy and Safety and Soundness 

Regulatory Capital Requirements. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital rules applicable to U.S. banking organizations such as the Bancorp and the Bank. These guidelines are intended to reflect the relationship between a banking organization&#8217;s capital and the degree of risk associated with its operations based on transactions recorded on-balance sheet as well as off-balance sheet items. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC may from time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above the minimum levels discussed below, due to the banking organization&#8217;s financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. 

The capital adequacy rules define qualifying capital instruments and specify minimum amounts of capital as a percentage of assets that banking organizations are required to maintain. Common equity Tier 1 generally includes common stock and related surplus, retained earnings and, in certain cases and subject to certain limitations, minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, other non-qualifying intangible assets and certain other deductions. Tier 1 capital generally consists of the sum of common equity Tier 1 elements, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, and related surplus and, in certain cases and subject to limitations, minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries that do not qualify as common equity Tier 1 capital, less certain deductions. Tier 2 capital generally consists of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt and mandatory convertible debt securities, cumulative perpetual preferred stock, term subordinated debt and intermediate-term preferred stock, and, subject to limitations, allowances for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital less certain required deductions represents qualifying total risk-based capital. Prior to the effectiveness of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, bank holding companies were permitted to include trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred stock in Tier 1 capital, subject to limitations. However, the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital rule applicable to bank holding companies permanently grandfathers non-qualifying capital instruments, including trust preferred securities, issued before May 19, 2010 by depository institution holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2009, subject to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital. The Bancorp&#8217;s currently outstanding trust preferred securities were grandfathered under this rule. In addition, under rules that became effective January 1, 2015, accumulated other comprehensive income (positive or negative) must be reflected in Tier 1 capital; however, the Bancorp was permitted to make a one-time, permanent election to continue to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income from capital. The Bancorp has made this election. 

Under the capital rules, risk-based capital ratios are calculated by dividing common equity Tier 1, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital, respectively, by risk-weighted assets. Assets and off-balance sheet credit equivalents are assigned one of several categories of risk weights based primarily on relative risk. Under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s rules applicable to the Bancorp and the FDIC&#8217;s capital rules applicable to the Bank, the Bancorp and the Bank are each required to maintain a minimum common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 4.5%, a minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 6%, a minimum total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 8% and a minimum leverage ratio requirement of 4%. Additionally, subject to a transition schedule, these rules require an institution to establish a capital conservation buffer of common equity Tier 1 capital in an amount above the minimum risk-based capital requirements for &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221; institutions equal to 2.5% of total risk weighted assets, or face restrictions on the ability to pay dividends, pay discretionary bonuses, and to engage in share repurchases. 

A bank holding company, such as the Bancorp, is considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if the bank holding company (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, and (iii) is not subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. In addition, under the FDIC&#8217;s prompt corrective action rules, an FDIC supervised institution is considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; if it (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater; (iii) a common Tier 1 equity ratio of 6.5% or greater, (iv) a leverage capital ratio of 5.0% or greater; and (v) is not subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 

The Bancorp and the Bank are considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under all regulatory definitions. 

- 12 - 

Safety and Soundness Standard. The FDIA requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to prescribe standards, by regulations or guidelines, relating to internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems, risk management, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, stock valuation and compensation, fees and benefits, and such other operational and managerial standards as the agencies deem appropriate. Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, and fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. In addition, the federal banking agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; provisions of the FDIA. See &#8220;-Regulatory Capital Requirements&#8221; above. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties. 

Dividend Restrictions 

The Bancorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. Revenues of the Bancorp are derived primarily from dividends paid to it by the Bank. The right of the Bancorp, and consequently the right of shareholders of the Bancorp, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of the Bank, through the payment of such dividends or otherwise, is necessarily subject to the prior claims of creditors of the Bank (including depositors), except to the extent that certain claims of the Bancorp in a creditor capacity may be recognized. 

Restrictions on Bank Holding Company Dividends. The Federal Reserve has the authority to prohibit bank holding companies from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The Federal Reserve has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for bank holding companies to pay dividends unless the bank holding company&#8217;s net income over the preceding year is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Further, under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital rule, the Bancorp&#8217;s ability to pay dividends is restricted if it does not maintain the required capital buffer. See &#8220;-Capital Adequacy and Safety and Soundness-Regulatory Capital Requirements&#8221; above. 

Restrictions on Bank Dividends. The FDIC has the authority to use its enforcement powers to prohibit a bank from paying dividends if, in its opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Federal law also prohibits the payment of dividends by a bank that will result in the bank failing to meet its applicable capital requirements on a pro forma basis. Payment of dividends by a bank is also restricted pursuant to various state regulatory limitations. Reference is made to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of the Bancorp and the Bank&#8217;s ability to pay dividends. 

Certain Transactions by Bank Holding Companies with their Affiliates 

There are various statutory restrictions on the extent to which bank holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries may borrow, obtain credit from or otherwise engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with their insured depository institution subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act amended the definition of affiliate to include an investment fund for which the depository institution or one of its affiliates is an investment adviser. An insured depository institution (and its subsidiaries) may not lend money to, or engage in covered transactions with, its non-depository institution affiliates if the aggregate amount of covered transactions outstanding involving the bank, plus the proposed transaction exceeds the following limits: (i) in the case of any one such affiliate, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of the insured depository institution and its subsidiaries cannot exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of the insured depository institution; and (ii) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of the insured depository institution and its subsidiaries cannot exceed 20% of the capital stock and surplus of the insured depository institution. For this purpose, &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; are defined by statute to include a loan or extension of credit to an affiliate, a purchase of or investment in securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets from an affiliate unless exempted by the Federal Reserve, the acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate as collateral for a loan or extension of credit to any person or 

- 13 - 

company, the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate, securities borrowing or lending transactions with an affiliate that creates a credit exposure to such affiliate, or a derivatives transaction with an affiliate that creates a credit exposure to such affiliate. Covered transactions are also subject to certain collateral security requirements. Covered transactions as well as other types of transactions between a bank and a bank holding company must be on market terms and not otherwise unduly favorable to the holding company or an affiliate of the holding company. Moreover, Section 106 of the BHCA provides that, to further competition, a bank holding company and its subsidiaries are prohibited from engaging in certain tying arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, lease or sale of property of any kind, or furnishing of any service. 

Consumer Protection Regulation 

The Bancorp and the Bank are subject to federal and state laws designed to protect consumers and prohibit unfair or deceptive business practices including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Fair Housing Act, Home Ownership Protection Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (&#8220;FACT Act&#8221;), the GLBA, the Truth in Lending Act, the CRA, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, National Flood Insurance Act and various state law counterparts. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must interact with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans and providing other services. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, which has the responsibility for making rules and regulations under the federal consumer protection laws relating to financial products and services. The CFPB also has a broad mandate to prohibit unfair or deceptive acts and practices and is specifically empowered to require certain disclosures to consumers and draft model disclosure forms. Failure to comply with consumer protection laws and regulations can subject financial institutions to enforcement actions, fines and other penalties. The FDIC examines the Bank for compliance with CFPB rules and enforces CFPB rules with respect to the Bank. 

Mortgage Reform. &#32;The Dodd-Frank Act prescribes certain standards that mortgage lenders must consider before making a residential mortgage loan, including verifying a borrower&#8217;s ability to repay such mortgage loan and allows borrowers to assert violations of certain provisions of the Truth in Lending Act as a defense to foreclosure proceedings. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, prepayment penalties are prohibited for certain mortgage transactions and creditors are prohibited from financing insurance policies in connection with a residential mortgage loan or home equity line of credit. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act prohibits mortgage originators from receiving compensation based on the terms of residential mortgage loans and generally limits the ability of a mortgage originator to be compensated by others if compensation is received from a consumer. The Dodd-Frank Act requires mortgage lenders to make additional disclosures prior to the extension of credit, in each billing statement and for negative amortization loans and hybrid adjustable rate mortgages. Additionally, CFPB&#8217;s qualified mortgage rule (the &#8220;QM Rule&#8221;), requires creditors, such as Washington Trust, to make a reasonable good faith determination of a consumer's ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling. 

Privacy and Customer Information Security. The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. In general, the Bank must provide its customers with an initial and annual disclosure that explains its policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required or permitted by law, the Bank is prohibited from disclosing such information except as provided in such policies and procedures. However, an annual disclosure is not required to be provided by a financial institution if the financial institution only discloses information under exceptions from GLBA that do not require an opt out to be provided and if there has been no change in its privacy polices and practices since its most recent disclosure provided to consumers. The GLBA also requires that the Bank develop, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information (as defined under GLBA), to protect against anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information; and to protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Bank is also required to send a notice to customers whose sensitive information has been compromised if unauthorized use of the information is reasonably possible. Most states, including the states where the Bank operates, have enacted legislation concerning breaches of data security and the duties of the Bank in response to a data breach. Congress continues to consider federal legislation that would require consumer notice of data security breaches. In addition, Massachusetts has promulgated data security regulations with respect to personal information of Massachusetts residents. Pursuant to the FACT Act, the Bank had to develop and implement a written identity theft prevention program to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of certain accounts or certain existing accounts. Additionally, the FACT Act amends the 

- 14 - 

Fair Credit Reporting Act to generally prohibit a person from using information received from an affiliate to make a solicitation for marketing purposes to a consumer, unless the consumer is given notice and a reasonable opportunity and a reasonable and simple method to opt out of the making of such solicitations. 

Anti-Money Laundering 

The Bank Secrecy Act. Under the Bank Secrecy Act (&#8220;BSA&#8221;), a financial institution is required to have systems in place to detect certain transactions, based on the size and nature of the transaction. Financial institutions are generally required to report to the U.S. Treasury any cash transactions involving more than $10,000. In addition, financial institutions are required to file suspicious activity reports for any transaction or series of transactions that involve more than $5,000 and which the financial institution knows, suspects or has reason to suspect involves illegal funds, is designed to evade the requirements of the BSA or has no lawful purpose. The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the &#8220;USA PATRIOT Act&#8221;), which amended the BSA, together with the implementing regulations of various federal regulatory agencies, has caused financial institutions, such as the Bank, to adopt and implement additional policies or amend existing policies and procedures with respect to, among other things, anti-money laundering compliance, suspicious activity, currency transaction reporting, customer identity verification and customer risk analysis. In evaluating an application under Section 3 of the BHCA to acquire a bank or an application under the Bank Merger Act to merge banks or effect a purchase of assets and assumption of deposits and other liabilities, the applicable federal banking regulator must consider the anti-money laundering compliance record of both the applicant and the target. In addition, under the USA PATRIOT Act financial institutions are required to take steps to monitor their correspondent banking and private banking relationships as well as, if applicable, their relationships with &#8220;shell banks.&#8221; 

OFAC. The U.S. has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These sanctions, which are administered by the U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;), take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on &#8220;U.S. persons&#8221; engaging in financial or other transactions relating to a sanctioned country or with certain designated persons and entities; (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons); and (iii) restrictions on transactions with or involving certain persons or entities. Blocked assets (for example, property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the Corporation. 

Regulation of Other Activities 

Registered Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer. &#32;WSC is a registered broker-dealer and a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;). WSC is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), FINRA and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. WSC acts as the underwriter and principal distributor to a group of open-end mutual funds currently offering four diversified series of shares, for which Weston Financial is the investment adviser. Weston Financial is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the &#8220;Investment Advisers Act&#8221;), and is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the SEC and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, including those related to sales methods, trading practices, the use and safekeeping of customers&#8217; funds and securities, capital structure, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Each of the mutual funds for which Weston Financial acts an investment adviser is registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the &#8220;Investment Company Act&#8221;), and subject to requirements thereunder. Shares of each mutual fund are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and are qualified for sale (or exempt from such qualification) under the laws of each state, the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands to the extent such shares are sold in any of those jurisdictions. 

Halsey is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act, and is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the SEC and the State of Connecticut, including those related to sales methods, trading practices, the use and safekeeping of customers&#8217; funds and securities, capital structure, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. 

- 15 - 

As investment advisers, Weston Financial and Halsey are subject to the Investment Advisers Act and any regulations promulgated thereunder, including fiduciary, recordkeeping, operational and disclosure obligations. In addition, an adviser or subadvisor to a registered investment company generally has obligations with respect to the qualification of the registered investment company under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#8220;Code&#8221;). 

The foregoing laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict Weston Financial and Halsey from conducting business in the event it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed in the event of such noncompliance include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on business activities for specified periods of time, revocation of registration as an investment adviser, commodity trading adviser and/or other registrations, and other censures and fines. 

Mortgage Lending. &#32;WTMC, formed in 2012, is a mortgage banking subsidiary of the Bank and licensed to do business in Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Connecticut and New Hampshire. WTMC is subject to the regulation, supervision and examination by the banking divisions in each of these states. See &#8220;-Consumer Protection Regulation&#8221; and &#8220;-Consumer Protection Regulation-Mortgage Reform&#8221; above for a description of certain regulations that apply to WTMC. 

Volcker Rule Restrictions on Proprietary Trading and Sponsorship of Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds. The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banking organizations, such as the Bancorp, from engaging in proprietary trading and from sponsoring and investing in hedge funds and private equity funds, except as permitted under certain limited circumstances, in a provision commonly referred to as the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; Under the Dodd-Frank Act, proprietary trading generally means trading by a banking entity or its affiliate for its trading account. Hedge funds and private equity funds are described by the Dodd-Frank Act as funds that would be registered under the Investment Company Act but for certain enumerated exemptions. The Volcker Rule restrictions apply to the Bancorp, the Bank and all of their subsidiaries and affiliates. 

ERISA. The Bank, Weston Financial and Halsey are each also subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (&#8220;ERISA&#8221;), and related regulations, to the extent it is a &#8220;fiduciary&#8221; under ERISA with respect to some of its clients. ERISA and related provisions of the Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, and prohibit certain transactions involving the assets of each ERISA plan that is a client of the Bank, Weston Financial or Halsey, as applicable, as well as certain transactions by the fiduciaries (and several other related parties) to such plans. 

Securities and Exchange Commission Availability of Filings 

Under Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, periodic and current reports must be filed or furnished with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports, statements or other information filed by Washington Trust with the SEC at its public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. Washington Trust&#8217;s filings are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and at the website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, Washington Trust makes available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of its website (www.washtrust.com) its annual report on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and exhibits and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Information on the Washington Trust website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

- 16 - 

