 Item 1. Business 

Background 

Preformed Line Products Company and its subsidiaries (the &#147;Company&#148;) is an international designer and manufacturer of products and systems employed in the construction and maintenance of overhead and underground networks for the energy, telecommunication, cable operators, information (data communication) and other similar industries. The Company&#146;s primary products support, protect, connect, terminate and secure cables and wires. The Company also provides solar hardware systems and mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications. The Company&#146;s goal is to continue to achieve profitable growth as a leader in the research, innovation, development, manufacture and marketing of technically advanced products and services related to energy, communications and cable systems and to take advantage of this leadership position to sell additional quality products in familiar markets. 

The Company serves a worldwide market through strategically located domestic and international manufacturing facilities. Each of the Company&#146;s domestic and international manufacturing facilities have obtained an International Organization of Standardization (&#147;ISO&#148;) 9001:2008 Certified Management System, with the exception of Direct Power and Water Corporation (DPW), which was acquired during 2007. The ISO 9001:2008 certified management system is a globally recognized quality standard for manufacturing and assists the Company in marketing its products throughout the world. The Company&#146;s customers include public and private energy utilities and communication companies, cable operators, financial institutions, governmental agencies, contractors and subcontractors, distributors and value-added resellers. The Company is not dependent on a single customer or a few customers. No single customer accounts for more than ten percent of the Company&#146;s consolidated revenues. 

The Company&#146;s products include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Formed Wire and Related Hardware Products &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Protective Closures &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Plastic Products &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Other Products &#160;

Formed Wire Products and Related Hardware Products are used in the energy, communications, cable and special industries (i.e., metal building, tower and antenna industries, the agriculture and arborist industries, and marine systems industry) to support, protect, terminate and secure both power conductor and communication cables and to control cable dynamics (e.g., vibration). Formed wire products are based on the principle of forming a variety of stiff wire materials into a helical (spiral) shape. Advantages of using the Company&#146;s helical formed wire products are that they are economical, dependable and easy to use. The Company introduced formed wire products to the power industry nearly 70 years ago and such products enjoy an almost universal acceptance in the Company&#146;s markets. Related hardware products include hardware for supporting and protecting transmission conductors, spacers, spacer-dampers, stockbridge dampers, corona suppression devices and various compression fittings for dead-end applications. Formed wire and related hardware products were approximately 61%, 65% and 68% of the Company&#146;s revenues in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Protective Closures , including splice cases, are used to protect fixed line communication networks, such as copper cable or fiber optic cable, from moisture, environmental hazards and other potential contaminants. Protective closures were approximately 17%, 18% and 16% of the Company&#146;s revenues in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Plastic Products , including guy markers, tree guards, fiber optic cable markers and pedestal markers, are used in energy, communications, cable and special industries to identify power conductors, communication cables and guy wires. Plastic products were approximately 4% of the Company&#146;s revenues each year in 2015, 2014 and 2013. 

Other Products include data communication cabinets, hardware assemblies, pole line hardware, resale products, underground connectors, solar hardware systems and urethane products. They are used by energy, renewable energy, communications, cable and special industries for various applications and are defined as products that complement the Company&#146;s core line offerings. Other products were approximately 18%, 13% and 12% of the Company&#146;s revenues in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Corporate History 

The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1947 to manufacture and sell helically shaped &#147;armor rods&#148; which are sets of stiff helically shaped wires applied on an electrical conductor at the point where they are suspended or held. Thomas F. Peterson, the Company&#146;s founder, developed and patented a unique method to manufacture and apply these armor rods to protect electrical conductors on overhead power lines. Over the years, Mr. Peterson and the Company developed, tested, patented, manufactured and marketed a variety of helically shaped products for use by the electrical and telephone industries. Although all of Mr. Peterson&#146;s patents have now expired, those patents served as the nucleus for licensing the Company&#146;s formed wire products abroad. 

The success of the Company&#146;s formed wire products in the U.S. led to expansion abroad. The first international license agreement was established in the mid-1950s in Canada. In the late 1950s, the Company&#146;s products were being sold through joint ventures and licensees in Canada, England, Germany, Spain and Australia. Additionally, the Company began export operations and promoted products into other selected offshore markets. The Company continued its expansion program, bought out most of the original licensees, and, by the mid-1990s, had complete ownership of operations in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Great Britain, South Africa and Spain and by 2002, it had complete ownership of operations in Mexico and China. The Company&#146;s international subsidiaries have the necessary infrastructure (i.e. manufacturing, engineering, marketing and general management) to support local business activities. Each is staffed with local personnel to ensure that the Company is well versed in local business practices, cultural constraints, technical requirements and the intricacies of local client relationships. 

In 1968, the Company expanded into the underground telecommunications field by its acquisition of the Smith Company located in California. The Smith Company had a patented line of buried closures and pressurized splice cases. These closures and splice cases protect copper cable openings from environmental damage and degradation. The Company continued to build on expertise acquired through the acquisition of the Smith Company and in 1995 introduced the highly successful COYOTE &#174; Closure line of products. Since 1995, 14 domestic and three international patents have been granted to the Company on the COYOTE Closure. The earliest COYOTE Closure patent was filed April 1995 and expired in April 2015. 

&#160;

In 2007, the Company acquired the shares of Direct Power and Water Corporation (DPW), located in New Mexico, U.S. This acquisition broadened the Company&#146;s product lines, because DPW manufactures mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications and provides designs and installations of solar power systems. During 2015, the Company integrated the DPW manufacturing processes into its other domestic operations to reduce future infrastructure and manufacturing costs for the product line. 

In 2007, the Company acquired 83.74% of Belos SA (Belos), located in Bielsko-Biala, Poland. Belos is a manufacturer and supplier of fittings for various voltage power networks. This acquisition complemented the Company&#146;s existing line of energy products. From 2008 to 2010, the Company acquired the remaining outstanding shares of Belos. 

In 2009, the Company acquired a 33.3% investment in Proxisafe Ltd. Proxisafe is a Canadian developmental company formed to design and commercialize new industrial safety equipment located in Calgary, Alberta. As of December 31, 2015, the Company owned 25.93% in Proxisafe. 

In 2009, the Company acquired the Dulmison business from Tyco Electronics Group S.A. (Tyco Electronics), which included both the acquisition of equity of certain Tyco Electronics entities and the acquisition of assets from other Tyco Electronics entities. Dulmison was a leader in the supply and manufacturer of electrical transmission and distribution products. Dulmison designed, manufactured and marketed pole line hardware and vibration control products for the global electrical utility industry. Dulmison had operations in Australia, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico and the United States. The Dulmison business has been fully integrated into the Company&#146;s core businesses. 

In 2010, the Company acquired Electropar Limited (Electropar), a New Zealand corporation. Electropar designs, manufactures and markets pole line and substation hardware for the global electrical utility industry. Electropar is based in New Zealand with a subsidiary operation in Australia. The acquisition has strengthened the Company&#146;s position in the power distribution, transmission and substation hardware markets and expanded the Company&#146;s presence in the Asia-Pacific region. 

In January 2012, the Company acquired Australian Electricity Systems Pty Ltd. (AES), an Australian company. AES designs, manufactures and markets hardware for the electrical utility industry.

In January 2014, the Company acquired Helix Uniformed Limited (Helix), located in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Helix designs, manufacturers and markets helical products and spacer dampers for the electrical utility industry. The acquisition has diversified the Company&#146;s business in Canada, expanded its manufacturing footprint and enhanced its engineering capabilities 

The Company&#146;s World headquarters is located at 660 Beta Drive, Mayfield Village, Ohio, U.S.A. 44143. 

Business 

The demand for the Company&#146;s products comes primarily from new, maintenance and repair construction for the energy (including solar), telecommunication, data communication and special industries. The Company&#146;s customers use many of the Company&#146;s products, including formed wire products, to revitalize the aging outside plant infrastructure. Many of the Company&#146;s products are used on a proactive basis by the Company&#146;s customers to reduce and prevent lost revenue. A single malfunctioning line could cause the loss of thousands of dollars per hour for a power or communication customer. A malfunctioning fiber cable could also result in substantial revenue loss to the Company&#146;s customers. Repair construction by the Company&#146;s customers generally occurs in the case of emergencies or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, floods or ice storms. Under these circumstances, the Company quickly provides the repair products to customers. 

The Company has adapted the formed wire products&#146; helical technology for use in a wide variety of fiber optic cable applications that have special requirements. The Company&#146;s formed wire products are uniquely 

&#160;

qualified for these applications due to the gentle gripping over a greater length of the fiber cable. This is an advantage over traditional pole line hardware clamps that compress the cable to the point of possible fatigue and optical signal deterioration. 

The Company&#146;s protective closures and splice cases are used to protect cable from moisture, environmental hazards and other potential contaminants. The Company&#146;s splice cases are easily re-enterable closures that allow utility maintenance workers access to the cables located inside the closure to repair or add communications services. Over the years, the Company has made many significant improvements in splice cases that have greatly increased its versatility and application in the market place. The Company also designs and markets custom splice cases to satisfy specific customer requirements. This has allowed the Company to remain a strong partner with several primary customers and has earned the Company the reputation as a responsive and reliable supplier. 

Fiber optic cable was first deployed in the outside plant environment in the early 1980s. Through fiber optic technologies, a much greater amount of both voice and data communication can be transmitted reliably. In addition, this technology solved the cable congestion problem that the large count copper cable was causing in underground, buried and aerial applications. The Company developed and adapted copper closures for use in the emerging fiber optic world. In the late 1980s, the Company developed a series of splice cases designed specifically for fiber optic application. In the mid-1990s, the Company developed its plastic COYOTE &#174; Closure, and has since expanded the product line to address Fiber-to-the-Premise (FTTP) applications. The COYOTE Closure is an example of the Company developing a new line of proprietary products to meet the changing needs of its customers. 

The Company also designs and manufactures data communication cabinets and enclosures for data communication networks, offering a comprehensive line of copper and fiber optic cross-connect systems. The product line enables reliable, high-speed transmission of data over customers&#146; local area networks. 

In 2007, the Company expanded into the renewable energy sector. It provides a comprehensive line of mounting hardware for a variety of solar power applications including residential roof mounting, commercial roofing systems, utility scale ground-mount, top of pole mounting and customized solutions. 

Markets 

The Company markets its products to the energy, telecommunication, cable, data communication and special industries. While rapid changes in technology have blurred the distinctions between telephone, cable, and data communication, the energy industry is clearly distinct. The Company&#146;s role in the energy industry is to supply formed wire products and related hardware used with the electrical conductors, cables and wires that transfer power from the generating facility to the ultimate user of that power. Formed wire products are used to support, protect, terminate and secure both power conductor and communication cables and to control cable dynamics. 

Electric Utilities - Transmission. The electric transmission grid is the interconnected network of high voltage aluminum conductors used to transport large blocks of electric power from generating facilities to distribution networks. Currently, there are three major power grids in the U.S.: the Eastern Interconnect, the Western Interconnect and the Texas Interconnect. Virtually all electrical energy utilities are connected with at least one other utility by one of these major grids. The Company believes that transmission grids have been neglected throughout much of the U.S. With demand for power now exceeding supply in some areas, the need for the movement of bulk power from the energy-rich areas to the energy-deficient areas means that new transmission lines will likely be built and many existing lines will likely be refurbished. Connecting renewable energy sources to the grid should also continue to attract new investment to fund transmission infrastructure projects in the future. The Company believes that this may generate opportunities for the Company&#146;s products in this market over at least the next several years. In addition, increased construction of international transmission grids is occurring in many regions of the world. However, consolidations in the markets that the Company services with increased global competition, as well as stagnant economic conditions, limited government funding and lower energy prices, may also have an adverse impact on the Company&#146;s sales. 

Electric Utilities - Distribution . The distribution market includes those utilities that distribute power from a substation where voltage is reduced to levels appropriate for the consumer. Unlike the transmission market, distribution is still handled primarily by local electric utilities. These utilities are motivated to reduce cost in order 

&#160;

to maintain and enhance their profitability. The Company believes that its growth in the distribution market will be achieved primarily as a result of incremental gains in market share driven by emphasizing the Company&#146;s quality products and service over price. Internationally, particularly in the developing regions, there is increasing political pressure to extend the availability of electricity to additional populations. Through its global network of factories and sales offices, the Company is prepared to take advantage of this new growth in construction. 

Renewable Energy . The renewable energy market includes residential consumers, commercial businesses, off-grid operators, and utility companies that have an interest in alternative energy sources. Environmental concerns along with federal, state and local utility incentives have fueled demand for renewable energy systems including solar, wind and biofuel. While low prices of traditional energy sources have slowed or stalled demand in some areas, the industry continues to grow as advancements in technology lead to greater efficiencies which drive down overall system costs. The Company currently provides hardware solutions and system design for solar power applications. The Company markets and sells these products and services to end-users, distributors, installers and integrators. 

Communication and Cable. Major developments, including growing competition between the cable and communications industries and increasing overall demand for high-speed communication services, have led to a changing regulatory and competitive environment in many markets throughout the world. The deployment of new access networks and improvements to existing networks for advanced applications continues to gain momentum. 

Cable operators, local communication operators and power utilities are building, rebuilding or upgrading signal delivery networks in developed countries. These networks are designed to deliver video and voice transmissions and provide Internet connectivity to individual residences and businesses. Operators deploy a variety of network technologies and architectures to carry broadband and narrowband signals. These architectures are constructed of electronic hardware connected via coaxial cables, copper wires or optical fibers. The Company manufactures closures that these industries use to securely connect and protect these vital networks. 

As critical components of the outdoor infrastructure, closures provide protection against weather and vandalism, and permit technicians who maintain and manage the system ready access to the devices. Cable operators and local telephone network operators place great reliance on manufacturers of protective closures because any material damage to the signal delivery networks is likely to disrupt communication services. In addition to closures, the Company supplies the communication and cable industry with its formed wire products to hold, support, protect and terminate the copper wires and cables and the fiber optic cables used by that industry to transfer voice, video or data signals. 

The industry has developed technological methods to increase the usage of copper-based products through high-speed digital subscriber lines (DSLs). The popularity of these services, the regulatory environment and the increasingly fierce competition between communications and cable operators has driven the move toward building out the &#147;last mile&#148; in fiber optic networks. FTTP technology supports the next wave in broadband innovation by carrying fiber optic technology into homes and businesses. The Company has been actively developing products that address this market. 

Data Communication. The data communication market is driven by the continual demand for increased bandwidth. Growing Internet Service Providers (ISPs), construction in Wide Area Networks (WANs) and demand for products in the workplace are all key elements to the increased demand for the racking and cabinet products made by the Company. The Company&#146;s products are sold to a number of categories of customers including, (i) ISPs, (ii) large companies and organizations which have their own local area network for data communication, and (iii) distributors of structured cabling systems and components for use in the above markets. 

Special Industries. The Company&#146;s formed wire products are also used in other industries which require a method of securing or terminating cables, including the metal building, tower and antenna industries, the agriculture and arborist industries, and various applications within the marine systems industry. Products other than formed wire products are also marketed to other industries. For example, the Company&#146;s urethane capabilities allow it to market products to the light rail industry. The Company continues to explore new and innovative uses of its manufacturing capabilities; however, these markets remain a small portion of overall consolidated sales. 

&#160;

International Operations 

The international operations of the Company are essentially the same as its domestic (PLP-USA) business. The Company manufactures similar types of products in its international plants as are sold domestically, sells to similar types of customers and faces similar types of competition (and in some cases, the same competitors). Sources of supply of raw materials are not significantly different internationally. See Note L in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information and financial data relating to the Company&#146;s international operations that represent reportable segments. 

While a number of the Company&#146;s international plants are in developed countries, the Company believes it has strong market opportunities in developing countries where the need for the transmission and distribution of electrical power is significant, although the pace of this development may remain slow. In addition, as the need arises, the Company is prepared to establish new manufacturing facilities abroad. 

Sales and Marketing 

Domestically and internationally, the Company markets its products through a direct sales force and manufacturing representatives. The direct sales force is employed by the Company and works with the manufacturer&#146;s representatives, as well as key direct accounts and distributors who also buy and resell the Company&#146;s products. The manufacturer&#146;s representatives are independent organizations that represent the Company as well as other complimentary product lines. These organizations are paid a commission based on the sales amount they generate. 

Research and Development 

The Company is committed to providing technical leadership through scientific research and product development in order to continue to expand the Company&#146;s position as a supplier to the communications and power industries. Research is conducted on a continuous basis using internal experience in conjunction with outside professional expertise to develop state-of-the-art materials for several of the Company&#146;s products. These products capitalize on cost-efficiency while offering exacting mechanical performance that meets or exceeds industry standards. The Company&#146;s research and development activities have resulted in numerous patents being issued to the Company (see &#147;Patents and Trademarks&#148; below). 

Early in its history, the Company recognized the need to understand the performance of its products and the needs of its customers. To that end, the Company developed a 29,000 square foot Research and Engineering Center located at its corporate headquarters in Mayfield Village, Ohio. In 2013, the Company expanded its Research and Engineering Center by an additional 8,000 square feet. Using the Research and Engineering Center, engineers and technicians simulate a wide range of external conditions encountered by the Company&#146;s products to ensure quality, durability and performance. The work performed in the Research and Engineering Center includes advanced studies and experimentation with various forms of vibration and environmental changes. This work has contributed significantly to the collective knowledge base of the industries the Company serves and is the subject matter of many papers and seminars presented to these industries. 

The Company believes that its Research and Engineering Center is one of the most sophisticated in the world in its specialized field. The Research and Engineering Center also has an advanced prototyping technology machine on-site to develop models of new designs where intricate part details are studied prior to the construction of expensive production tooling. Today, the Company&#146;s reputation for vibration testing, tensile testing, fiber optic cable testing, environmental testing, field vibration monitoring and third-party contract testing is a competitive advantage. In addition to testing, the work done at the Company&#146;s Research and Development Center continues to fuel product development efforts. For example, the Company estimates that approximately 16.4% of 2015 revenues were attributed to products developed by the Company in the past five years. In addition, the Company&#146;s position in the industry is further reinforced by its long-standing leadership role in many key international technical organizations which are charged with the responsibility of establishing industry wide specifications and performance criteria, including IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers), CIGRE (Counsiel Internationale des Grands Reseaux Electriques a Haute Tension), and IEC (International Electromechanical Commission). Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development costs for new products were $2.9 million in 2015, $2.7 million in 2014 and $2.3 million in 2013. 

&#160;

Patents and Trademarks 

The Company applies for patents in the U.S. and other countries, as appropriate, to protect its significant patentable developments. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had in force 30 U.S. patents and 98 international patents in 21 countries and had 16 pending U.S. patent applications and 37 pending international applications. While such domestic and international patents expire from time to time, the Company continues to apply for and obtain patent protection on a regular basis. Patents held by the Company in the aggregate are of material importance in the operation of the Company&#146;s business. The Company, however, does not believe that any single patent, or group of related patents, is essential to the Company&#146;s business as a whole or to any of its businesses. Additionally, the Company owns and uses a substantial body of proprietary information and numerous trademarks. The Company relies on nondisclosure agreements to protect trade secrets and other proprietary data and technology. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had obtained U.S. registration on 35 trademarks and two trademark applications remained pending. International registrations amounted to 247 registrations in 36 countries, with three pending international registrations. 

U.S. patents are issued for terms of 20 years beginning with the date of filing of the patent application. Patents issued by international countries generally expire 20 years after filing. U.S. and international patents are not renewable after expiration of their initial term. U.S. and international trademarks are generally perpetual, renewable in 10-year increments upon a showing of continued use. To the knowledge of management, the Company is not subject to any significant allegation or charges of infringement of intellectual property rights by any organization. 

In the normal course of business, the Company occasionally makes and receives inquiries with regard to possible patent and trademark infringement. The extent of such inquiries from third parties has been limited generally to verbal remarks to Company representatives. The Company believes that it is unlikely that the outcome of these inquiries will have a material adverse effect on the Company&#146;s financial position. 

Competition 

All of the markets that the Company serves are highly competitive. In each market, the principal methods of competition are price, performance, and service. The Company believes, however, that several factors (described below) provide the Company with a competitive advantage. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Company has a strong and stable workforce. This consistent and continuous knowledge base has afforded the Company the ability to provide superior service to the Company&#146;s customers and representatives. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Company&#146;s Research and Engineering Center in Mayfield Village, Ohio and the engineering departments at the Company&#146;s subsidiary operations around the world maintain a strong technical support function to develop unique solutions to customer problems. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Company is vertically integrated both in manufacturing and distribution and is continually upgrading equipment and processes. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Company is sensitive to the marketplace and provides an extra measure of service in cases of emergency, storm damage and other rush situations. This high level of customer service and customer responsiveness is a hallmark of the Company. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Company&#146;s 29 sales and manufacturing locations ensure close support and proximity to customers worldwide. Domestically, there are several competitors for formed wire products. Although it has other competitors in many of the countries where it has plants, the Company has leveraged its expertise and is very strong in the global 

&#160;

market. The Company believes that it is the world&#146;s largest manufacturer of formed wire products for energy and communications markets. However, the Company&#146;s formed wire products compete against other pole line hardware products manufactured by other companies. 

The Company&#146;s primary domestic competitor for pressurized copper closures is the 3M Company (&#147;3M&#148;). Based on its experience in the industry, the Company believes it maintains a strong market share position. 

The fiber optic closure market is one of the most competitive product areas for the Company, with the Company competing against, among others, Tyco Electronics, 3M and Corning Cable Systems. There are a number of primary competitors and several smaller niche competitors that compete at all levels in the marketplace. The Company believes that it is one of four leading suppliers of fiber optic closures. 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

The principal raw materials used by the Company are galvanized wire, stainless steel, aluminum covered steel wire, aluminum rod, plastic resins, glass-filled plastic compounds, neoprene rubbers and aluminum castings. The Company also uses certain other materials such as fasteners, packaging materials and communications cable. The Company believes that it has adequate sources of supply for the raw materials used in its manufacturing processes and it regularly attempts to develop and maintain sources of supply in order to extend availability and encourage competitive pricing of these products. 

Most plastic resins are purchased under contracts to stabilize costs and improve delivery performance and are available from a number of reliable suppliers. Wire and aluminum rods are purchased in standard stock diameters and coils under contracts from a number of reliable suppliers. Contracts have firm prices except for fluctuations of base metals and petroleum prices, which result in surcharges when global demand is greater than the available supply. 

The Company also relies on certain other manufacturers to supply products that complement the Company&#146;s product lines, such as aluminum and ferrous castings, fiber optic cable and connectors and various metal racks and cabinets. The Company believes there are multiple sources of supply for these products. 

The Company relies on sole source manufacturers for certain raw materials used in production. The current state of economic uncertainty presents a risk that existing suppliers could go out of business. However, there are other potential sources available for these materials, and the Company could relocate the tooling and processes to other manufacturers if necessary. 

Raw material costs were flat for the beginning of 2015 and trended down toward the end of 2015. The Company expects stable prices with potential trending up toward the end of 2016. 

Backlog Orders 

The Company&#146;s backlog was approximately $53.0 million at the end of 2015 and $61.4 million at the end of 2014. All customer orders entered are firm at the time of entry. Substantially all orders are shipped within a two to four week period unless the customer requests an alternative date. 

Seasonality 

The Company markets products that are used by utility maintenance and construction crews worldwide. The products are marketed through distributors and directly to end users, who maintain stock to ensure adequate supply for their customers or construction crews. As a result, the Company does not have a wide variation in sales from quarter to quarter. 

&#160;

Environmental 

The Company is subject to extensive and changing federal, state, and local environmental laws, including laws and regulations that (i) relate to air and water quality, (ii) impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment, (iii) establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of toxic and hazardous waste, and (iv) require proper storage, handling, packaging, labeling, and transporting of products and components classified as hazardous materials. Stringent fines and penalties may be imposed for noncompliance with these environmental laws. In addition, environmental laws could impose liability for costs associated with investigating and remediating contamination at the Company&#146;s facilities or at third-party facilities at which the Company has arranged for the disposal treatment of hazardous materials. 

The Company believes it is in compliance in all material respects, with all applicable environmental laws and the Company is not aware of any noncompliance or obligation to investigate or remediate contamination that could reasonably be expected to result in a material liability. The Company does not expect to make any material capital expenditure during 2016 for environmental control facilities. The environmental laws continue to be amended and revised to impose stricter obligations, and compliance with future additional environmental requirements could necessitate capital outlays. However, the Company does not believe that these expenditures will ultimately result in a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations. The Company cannot predict the precise effect such future requirements, if enacted, would have on the Company. The Company believes that such regulations would be enacted over time and would affect the industry as a whole. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, the Company had 2,645 employees. Approximately 27% of the Company&#146;s employees are located in the U.S. 

Available Information 

The Company maintains an Internet site at http://www.preformed.com, on which the Company makes available, free of charge, the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The Company&#146;s SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of its Internet site. The information found on the Company&#146;s Internet site is not part of this or any other report that is filed or furnished to the SEC. 

The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with or furnishes to the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed with the SEC by electronic filers. The SEC&#146;s Internet site is http://www.sec.gov. The Company also has a link from its Internet site to the SEC&#146;s Internet site. This link can be found on the investor relations page of the Company&#146;s Internet site. 

