 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

General

Rave Restaurant Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the "Company" or in the first person notations of "we", "us" and "our") operate and franchise pizza buffet, delivery/carry-out and express restaurants domestically and internationally under the trademark "Pizza Inn" and operate and franchise domestic fast casual restaurants under the trademarks "Pie Five Pizza Company" or "Pie Five". We provide or facilitate the procurement and distribution of food, equipment and supplies to our domestic and international system of restaurants through our Norco Restaurant Services Company ("Norco") division and through agreements with third party distributors.

As of June 26, 2016, we owned and operated 32 restaurants comprised of 31 Pie Five restaurants ("Pie Five Units") and one Pizza Inn buffet restaurant ("Buffet Unit"). As of that date, we also had 57 franchised Pie Five Units and 221 franchised Pizza Inn restaurants. The 161 domestic franchised Pizza Inn restaurants were comprised of 95 Buffet Units, 15 delivery/carry-out restaurants ("Delco Units") and 51 express restaurants ("Express Units"). The 60 international franchised Pizza Inn restaurants were comprised of 12 Buffet Units, 40 Delco Units and eight Express Units. Domestic restaurants were located predominantly in the southern half of the United States, with Texas, North Carolina, Arkansas and Kansas accounting for approximately 33%, 12%, 10% and 6%, respectively, of the total number of domestic restaurants.

Our History

The Company has offered consumers affordable, high quality pizza since 1958, when the first Pizza Inn restaurant opened in Dallas, Texas. We awarded our first franchise in 1963 and opened our first buffet restaurant in 1969. We began franchising the Pizza Inn brand internationally in the late 1970s. In 1993, our stock began trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market, and presently trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the ticker symbol "RAVE." In June 2011, we opened the first Pie Five restaurant in Ft. Worth, Texas. In November 2012, we signed our first franchise development agreement for Pie Five.

Our Concepts

We operate and franchise restaurant concepts under two distinct brands: Pie Five and Pizza Inn.

Pie Five 

Pie Five is a fast-casual pizza concept that creates individualized pizzas which are baked in 140 seconds in our specially designed oven. Pizzas are created at the direction of our customers who choose from a variety of freshly prepared and displayed toppings, cheeses, sauces and doughs and complete their purchase process in less than five minutes. Customers can also get freshly prepared entr&#233;e and side salads, also made to order from our recipes or at the customer's direction. They can also choose from several baked daily desserts like brownies, cookie pies, and cakes. A variety of soft beverages are available, as well as beer and wine in some locations. Pie Five restaurants offer items at prices from $5.99 to $11.99, and the average ticket price per meal, including a drink, was approximately $7.75 per person for fiscal year 2016. The average per person ticket is slightly higher in restaurants offering beer and wine.

Pie Five restaurants typically occupy leased, in-line or end-cap space of between 1,800 and 2,400 square feet in retail strip or multi-unit retail space. The restaurants typically are located in high traffic, high visibility urban or suburban sites in mid- to large-size metropolitan areas. With seating for 65 to 85 customers in most units, and patio seating where available, Pie Five restaurants primarily serve lunch and dinner to families, adults and kids of all ages. Sales are predominantly on-premise though carry out is offered as well. Future sales growth initiatives may include expanded text ordering and catering services. Due to the relatively compact footprint of the restaurants, and other operating advantages, we also believe Pie Five is well suited for non-traditional locations such as airports.

Pizza Inn 

We operate Buffet Units, Delco Units and Express Units under the Pizza Inn brand. Buffet Units and Delco Units feature crusts that are hand-made from dough made fresh in the restaurant each day. Our pizzas are made with a proprietary all-in-one flour mixture, real mozzarella cheese and a proprietary mix of classic pizza spices. In international markets, the menu mix of toppings and side items is occasionally adapted to local tastes.

&#160; Buffet Units offer dine-in, carryout and catering service and, in many cases, also offer delivery service. Buffet Units offer a variety of pizza crusts with standard toppings and special combinations of toppings in addition to pasta, salad, sandwiches, appetizers, desserts and beverages, including beer and wine in some locations, in an informal, family-oriented atmosphere. We occasionally offer other items on a limited promotional basis. Buffet Units are generally located in free standing buildings or strip center locations in retail developments in close proximity to offices, shopping centers and residential areas. The current standard Buffet Units are between 2,100 and 4,500 square feet in size and seat 120 to 185 customers. The interior decor is designed to promote a casual, lively, contemporary, family-style atmosphere. Some Buffet Units feature game rooms that offer a range of electronic game entertainment for the entire family. The buffet is typically offered at prices from $6.49 to $8.49, and the average ticket price, including a drink, was approximately $9.70 per person for fiscal year 2016. The average per person ticket is slightly higher in restaurants offering beer and wine. 

Delco Units offer delivery and carryout service only and are typically located in shopping centers or other in-line retail developments. Delco Units typically offer a variety of crusts and some combination of side items. Delco Units occupy approximately 1,200 square feet, are primarily production facilities and, in most instances, do not offer seating. The decor of the Delco Unit is designed to be bright and highly visible and feature neon lighted displays and awnings. We have attempted to locate Delco Units strategically to facilitate timely delivery service and to provide easy access for carryout service.

Express Units serve our customers through a variety of non-traditional points of sale. Express Units are typically located in a convenience store, food court, college campus, airport terminal, travel plaza, athletic facility or other commercial facility. They have limited or no seating and solely offer quick carryout service of a limited menu of pizza and other foods and beverages. An Express Unit typically occupies approximately 200 to 400 square feet and is commonly operated by the operator or food service licensee of the commercial host facility. We have developed a high-quality pre-prepared crust that is topped and cooked on-site, allowing this concept to offer a lower initial investment and reduced labor and operating costs while maintaining product quality and consistency. Like Delco Units, Express Units are primarily production-oriented facilities and, therefore, do not require all of the equipment, labor or square footage of the Buffet Unit.

Site Selection

We consider the restaurant site selection process critical to a restaurant's long-term success and devote significant resources to the investigation and evaluation of potential sites. The site selection process includes a review of trade area demographics through the use of a third party customer and site selection tool, as well as a proprietary evaluation process. We may also rely on a franchisee's knowledge of the trade area and market characteristics when selecting a location for a franchised restaurant. A member of our development team visits each potential domestic restaurant location.

Development and Operations

New Unit Development 

We intend to expand the Pizza Inn system domestically and internationally in markets with significant long-term growth potential and where we believe we can use our competitive strengths to establish brand recognition and gain local market share. While we plan to expand our Pizza Inn branded domestic restaurant base primarily through opening new franchised restaurants with new and existing franchisees, we will continue to evaluate our mix of Company-owned and franchised restaurants. We will evaluate the development of new Pizza Inn Buffet and Delco Units in international markets in fiscal 2017, particularly in the Middle East.

In appropriate circumstances, we grant area developer rights for Pizza Inn restaurants in new and existing domestic markets. A Pizza Inn area developer typically pays a negotiated fee to purchase the right to operate or develop restaurants within a defined territory and, typically, agrees to a multi-restaurant development schedule. The area developer assists us in local franchise service and quality control in exchange for half of the franchise fees and royalties from all restaurants within the territory during the term of the agreement.

In fiscal 2017, we intend to continue developing franchised Pie Five Units. As of September 12 , 2016, we had 62 franchised units open and had executed multi-year development agreements with 23 franchisees for up to an additional 347 Pie Five Units to be located in the U.S., including Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Wisconsin and Washington D.C. The number of Pie Five Units subject to a development agreement is scaled relative to the estimated development potential of the specified geographic area and requires the franchisee to achieve specified unit development milestones over a period of time, typically five years, to maintain their development rights in the area. The rate at which we will be able to continue to expand the Pie Five concept through franchise development is determined in part by our success at selecting qualified franchisees, by our ability to identify satisfactory sites in appropriate markets and by our ability to continue training and monitoring our franchisees. We intend to continue to focus on franchise development opportunities with experienced, well-capitalized, multi-restaurant operators.

In fiscal 2017, we also intend to continue to develop Company-owned Pie Five Units in selected metropolitan areas throughout the United States. Our ability to open new Company-owned Pie Five Units is largely dependent on our ability to identify and secure suitable locations, to manage and fund the development of such locations and to train and staff the restaurants.

Domestic Franchise Operations 

Franchise and development agreements. We discontinued offering new Delco Franchises during fiscal 2014. Our current standard forms of franchise agreements provide for the following basic terms:

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160; Pizza Inn 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Buffet Unit

&#160; Express Unit

&#160; Pie Five Unit

Development fee per unit

&#160;-

&#160; &#160;-

&#160; 5,000

Franchise fee per unit

25,000

&#160; 5,000

&#160; 20,000

Initial franchise term

20 years

&#160; 5 years

&#160; 10 years

Renewal period

10 years

&#160; 5 years

&#160; 5 years

Royalty rate % of sales

4%

&#160; 5%

&#160; 6%

National Ad fund % of sales

1%

&#160; 2%

&#160; 2%

Required total ad spending % of sales

5%

&#160; 2%

&#160; 5%

&#160;

&#160;

Since the Pizza Inn concept was first franchised in 1963, industry franchising concepts and development strategies have evolved, and our present franchise relationships are evidenced by a variety of contractual forms. Common to those forms are provisions that: (i) require the franchisee to follow the Pizza Inn system of restaurant operation and management, (ii) require the franchisee to pay a franchise fee and continuing royalties, and (iii) except for Express Units, prohibit the development of one restaurant within a specified distance from another.

We launched the franchise program for Pie Five in fiscal 2013. Based on the Pie Five development agreements currently in effect, we anticipate allocating significant internal resources to the growth of our Pie Five franchise and development operation in fiscal 2017. Our Pie Five franchise agreement requires that the franchisees: (i) follow the Pie Five system of restaurant operation and management, (ii) pay a franchise fee and continuing royalties, (iii) contribute a specified percentage of sales to a marketing fund managed by the Company, and (iv) only open restaurants that comply with site and design standards determined by the Company.

Training. We offer numerous training programs for the benefit of franchisees and their restaurant crew managers. The training programs, taught by experienced Company employees, focus on food preparation, service, cost control, sanitation, safety, local store marketing, personnel management and other aspects of restaurant operation. The training programs include group classes, supervised work in Company-owned restaurants and special field seminars. Initial and certain supplemental training programs are offered free of charge to franchisees, who pay their own travel and lodging expenses. New franchisees also receive on-site training from Company employees to assist with their first two restaurant openings under their development agreements. Restaurant managers train their staff through on-the-job training, utilizing video and printed materials produced by us.

Standards. &#160; We require franchisee adherence to a variety of standards designed to ensure proper operations and to protect and enhance the Pie Five and Pizza Inn brands. All franchisees are required to operate their restaurants in compliance with these written policies, standards and specifications, which include matters such as menu items, ingredients, materials, supplies, services, furnishings, decor and signs. Our efforts to maintain consistent operations may result, from time to time, in the closing of certain restaurants that have not achieved and maintained a consistent standard of quality or operations. We also maintain adherence to our standards through ongoing support and education of our franchisees by our franchise business consultants, who are deployed locally in markets where our franchisees are located.

Company-Owned Restaurant Operations 

As of June 26, 2016, we operated one Buffet Unit and 31 Pie Five Units, in the Dallas/Fort Worth, Houston , Atlanta, Minneapolis and Chicago metropolitan areas. We do not currently intend to operate any Delco Units or Express Units. Our ability to open Company-owned restaurants is affected by a number of factors, including the terms of available financing and our ability to locate suitable sites, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms, secure appropriate local governmental permits and approvals, supervise construction and recruit and train management personnel. In addition to generating revenues and earnings, we use domestic Company-owned restaurants as test sites for new products and promotions as well as restaurant operational improvements and as a forum for training new managers and franchisees.

Developing Company-owned Pie Five Units in multiple metropolitan areas is a key component of our strategic plan. In addition to providing the Company with an attractive economic return, we believe that developing a domestic network of Company-owned Pie Five Units is an important aspect of our strategy for growing the Pie Five system. Growth in both the franchised and Company-owned Pie Five Units in operation improves the system's overall economies of scale for advertising, marketing, information systems, distribution and procurement of food products, and other costs. 

&#160;

&#160;

International Franchise Operations 

We also offer master license rights to develop Pizza Inn restaurants in certain foreign countries, with negotiated fees, development schedules and ongoing royalties. A master licensee for a foreign country pays a negotiated fee to purchase the right to develop and operate Pizza Inn restaurants within a defined territory, typically for a term of 20 years, plus a ten-year renewal option. The master licensee agrees to a multi-restaurant development schedule and we train the master licensee to monitor and assist franchisees in their territory with local service and quality control, with support from us. In return, the master licensee typically retains half the franchise fees and half the royalties on all restaurants within the territory during the term of the agreement. Master licensees may open restaurants that they own and operate, or they may open sub-franchised restaurants owned and operated by third parties through agreements with the master licensee, but subject to our approval.

Our first franchised restaurant outside of the United States opened in the late 1970s. As of June 26, 2016, there were 60 Pizza Inn restaurants operating internationally. With the exception of two restaurants in Honduras and one in Bangladesh, all of the restaurants operated or sub-licensed by our international master licensees are in the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and adjoining countries. Our ability to continue to develop select international markets is affected by a number of factors, including our ability to locate experienced, well-capitalized developers who can commit to an aggressive multi-restaurant development schedule and achieve maximum initial market penetration with minimal supervision by us. In the future, we may also pursue international opportunities for the development of Pie Five franchisees.

Food and Supply Distribution

Our Norco division provides product sourcing, purchasing, quality assurance, research and development, franchisee order and billing services, and logistics support functions for both the Pizza Inn and Pie Five restaurant systems. We outsource our warehousing and distribution services to reputable and experienced restaurant distribution companies, including Performance Food Group, Inc. and its affiliates. The distributors make deliveries to all domestic restaurants from several distribution centers, with delivery territories and responsibilities for each determined according to geographical region. We believe this division of responsibilities for our purchasing, franchisee support and distribution systems has resulted in lower operating costs and logistical efficiencies. Norco also arranges for the distribution of certain products and equipment to some international franchisees.

Effective in the third quarter of fiscal 2015, we changed our distribution arrangements to shift the responsibility for maintaining system-wide inventory from Norco to third party distributors. As a result, as of June 26, 2016 and June 28, 2015, inventory consisted primarily of food, paper products and supplies stored in and used by Company restaurants.

Norco is able to leverage the advantages of direct vendor negotiations and volume purchasing of food, equipment and supplies for the franchisees' benefit in the form of a concentrated, one-truck delivery system, competitive pricing and product consistency. Franchisees are able to purchase all products and ingredients from Norco and have them delivered by experienced and efficient distributors. In order to assure product quality and consistency, our franchisees are required to purchase from Norco certain food products that are proprietary to the Pizza Inn and Pie Five systems, including cheese, pizza sauce, flour mixture, certain meats and spice blend. In addition, franchisees purchase other non-proprietary food products and supplies from Norco. Alternatively, franchisees may also purchase non-proprietary products and supplies from other suppliers who meet our requirements for quality and reliability.

Non-proprietary food and ingredients, equipment and other supplies sold by Norco are generally available from several qualified sources. With the exception of several proprietary food products, such as cheese and dough flour, we are not dependent upon any one supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We contract with established food processors for the production of our proprietary products according to our specifications.

We have not experienced any significant shortages of supplies or any delays in receiving our food or beverage inventories, restaurant supplies or products, and do not anticipate any difficulty in obtaining inventories or supplies in the foreseeable future. Prices charged to us by our suppliers are subject to fluctuation, and we typically pass increased costs or savings on to our franchisees through changes in product pricing. We do not engage in commodity hedging but enter into pricing arrangements for up to a year in advance for certain high volume products.

&#160;

&#160;

Marketing and Advertising

By communicating a common brand message at the regional, local market and restaurant levels, we believe we can create and reinforce a strong, consistent marketing message to consumers and increase our market share. We offer or facilitate a number of ways for the brand image and message to be promoted at the local and regional levels.

The Pizza Inn Advertising Plan Cooperative ("PIAP Cooperative") is a Texas cooperative association that is responsible for creating and producing various marketing programs and materials, which may include print and digital advertisements, direct mail materials, social media and e-mail marketing, television and radio commercials, in-store promotional materials, and related marketing and public relations services. Each operator of a domestic Buffet Unit or Delco Unit is entitled to membership in PIAP Cooperative. Nearly all of our existing Pizza Inn franchise agreements for Buffet Units and Delco Units require the franchisees to become members of PIAP Cooperative. Members contribute 1% of their sales to PIAP Cooperative. PIAP Cooperative is managed by a board of trustees comprised of franchisee representatives who are elected by the members each year. We do not have any ownership interest in PIAP Cooperative. We provide certain administrative, marketing and other services to PIAP Cooperative and are paid by PIAP Cooperative for such services. As of June 26, 2016, the Company-owned Buffet Unit and substantially all of our domestic franchisees were members of PIAP Cooperative. Operators of Express Units do not participate in PIAP Cooperative. However, they contribute up to 1% of their sales directly to us to help fund purchases of Express Unit marketing materials and similar expenditures. International franchisees do not participate in PIAP Cooperative.

In the past year we have allocated additional resources to the development and execution of marketing programs for the Pie Five restaurant system to benefit Pie Five franchisees and Company-owned restaurants in different metropolitan areas. Pie Five franchisees contribute a specified percentage of their sales to the Company to fund the creation and production of various marketing and advertising programs and materials, which may include print and digital advertisements, direct mail materials, customer satisfaction systems, social media and e-mail marketing, television and radio commercials, in-store promotional materials, and related marketing and public relations services. We anticipate continuing to expand Pie Five marketing activities commensurate with the growth of the Pie Five system.

Pizza Inn and Pie Five franchisees are required to conduct independent marketing efforts in addition to their participation in the national marketing programs for each brand. We provide Company-owned and franchised restaurants with access to an assortment of local store marketing materials, including pre-approved print, radio, and digital media marketing materials. We also provide local store marketing materials and programs specifically to support new restaurant openings.

Trademarks and Quality Control

We own various trademarks, including the names "Pizza Inn" and "Pie Five," that are used in connection with the restaurants and have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The duration of our trademarks is unlimited, subject to periodic renewal and continued use. In addition, we have obtained trademark registrations for our marks in several foreign countries and have periodically re-filed and applied for registration in others. We believe that we hold the necessary rights for protection of the trademarks essential to our business.

Government Regulation

We and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting the operation of our restaurants. Each restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, safety, sanitation, wage and hour, alcoholic beverage, building and fire agencies in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located. Difficulties in obtaining, or the failure to obtain, required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant or require the temporary or permanent closing of existing restaurants in a particular area.

We are subject to Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") regulation and to various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. The FTC requires us to furnish to prospective franchisees a franchise disclosure document containing prescribed information. Substantive state laws that regulate the franchisor-franchisee relationship presently exist in a number of states, and bills have been introduced in Congress from time to time that would provide for further federal regulation of the franchisor-franchisee relationship in certain respects. Some foreign countries also have disclosure requirements and other laws regulating franchising and the franchisor-franchisee relationship.

&#160;

&#160;

Employees

As of September 12 , 2016, we had 558 employees, including 48 in our corporate office and 44 full-time and 466 part-time employees at the Company-owned restaurants. None of our employees are currently covered by collective bargaining agreements.

&#160;

Industry and Competition

The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, service, location and food quality, and there are many well-established competitors with substantially greater brand recognition and financial and other resources than the Company. Competitors include a large number of international, national and regional restaurant and pizza chains, as well as local restaurants and pizza operators. Some of our competitors may be better established in the markets where our restaurants are or may be located. Within the pizza segment of the restaurant industry, we believe that our primary competitors are national pizza chains and several regional chains, including chains executing a "take and bake" concept. We also compete against the frozen pizza products available at grocery stores and large superstore retailers. In recent years several competitors have developed fast-casual pizza concepts that compete with Pie Five in certain metropolitan areas. A change in the pricing or other market strategies of one or more of our competitors could have an adverse impact on our sales and earnings.

With respect to the sale of franchises, we compete with many franchisors of restaurants and other business concepts. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the sale of franchises are product quality, price, value, consumer acceptance, franchisor experience and support, and the quality of the relationship maintained between the franchisor and its franchisees. In general, there is also active competition for management personnel and attractive commercial real estate sites suitable for our restaurants.

Our Norco division competes with both national and local distributors of food and other restaurant suppliers. The distribution industry is very competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the distribution industry are product quality, customer service and price. Norco or its designees are the sole authorized suppliers of certain proprietary products that all Pizza Inn or Pie Five restaurants are required to use.

