 Item 1 &#150; Business 

General Development of Business 

In this Form 10-K, &#147;we&#148;, &#147;us&#148;, &#147;our&#148;, or &#147;the Company&#148;, refers to UMH Properties, Inc., together with its predecessors and subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. 

UMH Properties, Inc. operates as a qualified real estate investment trust (&#147;REIT&#148;) under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code (the &#147;Code&#148;). The Company had elected REIT status effective January 1, 1992 and intends to maintain its qualification as a REIT in the future. As a qualified REIT, with limited exceptions, the Company will not be taxed under Federal and certain state income tax laws at the corporate level on taxable income that it distributes to its shareholders. For special tax provisions applicable to REITs, refer to Sections 856-860 of the Code. 

The Company was incorporated in the state of New Jersey in 1968. On September 29, 2003, the Company changed its state of incorporation from New Jersey to Maryland by merging with and into a Maryland corporation, with the approval of the Company&#146;s shareholders at the Company&#146;s annual meeting on August 14, 2003. 

Narrative Description of Business 

The Company derives its income primarily from real estate rental operations. Its primary business is the ownership and operation of manufactured home communities &#150; leasing manufactured home sites to private manufactured home owners. The Company also leases homes to residents, and through its wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary, UMH Sales and Finance, Inc. (&#147;S&#38;F&#148;), conducts manufactured home sales in its communities. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company owns and operates ninety-eight manufactured home communities containing approximately 17,800 developed sites. The communities are located in New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Indiana and Michigan. 

A manufactured home community is designed to accommodate detached, single-family manufactured homes. These manufactured homes are produced off-site by manufacturers and installed on sites within the community. These homes may be improved with the addition of features constructed on site, including garages, screened rooms and carports. Manufactured homes are available in a variety of designs and floor plans, offering many amenities and custom options. Each owner of a manufactured home leases the site on which the home is located from the Company. 

Manufactured homes are accepted by the public as a viable and economically attractive alternative to common stick-built single-family housing. The affordability of the modern manufactured home makes it a very attractive housing alternative. 

Modern residential land lease communities are similar to typical residential subdivisions containing central entrances, paved well-lit streets, curbs and gutters. Generally, modern manufactured home communities contain buildings for recreation, green areas, and other common area facilities, all of which, are the property of the community owner. In addition to such general improvements, certain manufactured home communities include recreational improvements such as swimming pools, tennis courts and playgrounds. Municipal water and sewer services are available in some manufactured home communities, while other communities supply these facilities on site. 

Typically, our leases are on an annual or month-to-month basis, renewable upon the consent of both parties. The community manager interviews prospective residents, collects rent and finance payments, ensures compliance with community regulations, maintains public areas and community facilities and is responsible for the overall appearance of the community. Manufactured home communities produce predictable income streams and provide protection from inflation due to the ability to annually increase rents. Manufactured home communities may also appreciate over time. 

Inherent in the operation of a manufactured home community is the development, redevelopment, and expansion of our communities. The Company sells and finances the sale of manufactured homes in our communities through S&#38;F. S&#38;F was established to potentially enhance the value of our communities. The home sales business is operated like other homebuilders with sales centers, model homes, an inventory of completed homes and the ability to supply custom designed homes based upon the requirements of the new homeowners. Many of our communities compete with other manufactured home community properties located in the same or nearby markets that are owned and operated by other companies in our business. We generally monitor the rental rates and other terms being offered by our competitors and consider this information as a factor in determining our own rental rates. 

The Company also owns a portfolio of investment securities, which the Company generally limits to no more than approximately 15% of its undepreciated assets. 

Investment and Other Policies of the Company 

The Company may invest in improved and unimproved real property and may develop unimproved real property. Such properties may be located throughout the United States, but the Company has concentrated on the Northeast. 

The Company may finance communities with purchase money mortgages or other financing, including first liens, wraparound mortgages or subordinated indebtedness. In connection with its ongoing activities, the Company may issue notes, mortgages or other senior securities. The Company intends to use both secured and unsecured lines of credit. 

The Company may issue securities for property; however, this has not occurred to date. The Company may repurchase or reacquire its shares from time to time if, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, such acquisition is advantageous to the Company. No shares were repurchased or reacquired during 2015 and, as of December 31, 2015, the Company does not own any of its own shares. 

The Company also invests in equity securities of other REITs. The Company from time to time may purchase these securities on margin when the interest and dividend yields exceed the cost of funds. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had borrowings of $15,766,573 under its margin line at 2.0% interest. The REIT securities portfolio, to the extent not pledged to secure borrowings, provides the Company with additional liquidity and additional income. Such securities are subject to risk arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, primarily interest rate risk and market price risk relating to equity securities. From time to time, the Company may use derivative instruments to mitigate interest rate risk; however, this has not occurred during any periods presented. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had $75,011,260 and $63,555,961, respectively, of securities available for sale. Included in these securities are Preferred Stock of $14,219,712 and $19,045,983 at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The realized net gain on securities available for sale at December 31, 2015 and 2014 amounted to $204,230 and $1,542,589, respectively. The unrealized net gain (loss) on securities available for sale at December 31, 2015 and 2014 amounted to $(2,055,027) and $5,079,921, respectively. 

Property Maintenance and Improvement Policies 

It is the policy of the Company to properly maintain, modernize, expand and make improvements to its properties when required. The Company anticipates that renovation expenditures with respect to its present properties during 2016 will be approximately $12 million. It is the policy of the Company to maintain adequate insurance coverage on all of its properties; and, in the opinion of the Company, all of its properties are adequately insured. 

Number of Employees 

As of February 29, 2016, the Company had approximately 295 employees, including Officers. During the year, the Company hires approximately 50 part-time and full-time temporary employees as grounds keepers, lifeguards, and for emergency repairs. 

Financial Information 

Management views the Company as a single segment based on its method of internal reporting in addition to its allocation of capital and resources. For required financial information related to our operations and assets, please refer to our consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, included in Item 8 &#147;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148; in this Annual Report. 

Available Information 

Additional information about the Company can be found on the Company&#146;s website which is located at www.umh.reit. Information contained on or hyperlinked from our website is not incorporated by reference into and should not be considered part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). The Company makes available, free of charge, on or through its website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You can also read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at its Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330). The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

